To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefizox and other antibacterial drugs , Cefizox should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
For Intravenous Infusion Description Cefizox ® ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) is a sterile , semisynthetic , broadspectrum , betalactamase resistant cephalosporin antibiotic for parenteral ( IV , IM ) administration .
It is the sodium salt of [ 6 R [ 6 a , 7β ( Z ) ] ] 7 [ [ ( 2 , 3dihydro2imino4 thiazolyl ) ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino ] 8oxo5thia1azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct2ene2carboxylic acid .
Its sodium content is approximately 60 mg ( 2 . 6 mEq ) per gram of ceftizoxime activity .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C13H12N5NaO5S2 405 . 38 Ceftizoxime for injection , USP is a white to pale yellow crystalline powder .
Cefizox is supplied in ADD - vantage ® vials as ceftizoxime sodium equivalent to 1 gram or 2 grams ceftizoxime .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Following IV administration of 1 , 2 , and 3 gram doses of Cefizox to normal volunteers , the following serum levels were obtained .
Serum Concentrations After Intravenous AdministrationSerum Concentration ( µg / mL ) Dose 5 min 10 min 30 min 1 hr 2 hr 4 hr 8 hr 1 gram [ 1 ] null 60 . 5 38 . 9 21 . 5 8 . 4 1 . 4 2 grams 131 . 8 110 . 9 77 . 5 53 . 6 33 . 1 12 . 1 2 . 0 3 grams 221 . 1 174 . 0 112 . 7 83 . 9 47 . 4 26 . 2 4 . 8 [ 1 ] Not Done A serum halflife of approximately 1 . 7 hours was observed after IV or IM administration .
Cefizox is 30 % protein bound .
Cefizox is not metabolized , and is excreted virtually unchanged by the kidneys in 24 hours .
This provides a high urinary concentration .
Concentrations greater than 6000 μg / mL have been achieved in the urine by 2 hours after a 1 gram dose of Cefizox intravenously .
Probenecid slows tubular secretion and produces even higher serum levels , increasing the duration of measurable serum concentrations .
Cefizox achieves therapeutic levels in various body fluids , e . g . , cerebrospinal fluid ( in patients with inflamed meninges ) , bile , surgical wound fluid , pleural fluid , aqueous humor , ascitic fluid , peritoneal fluid , prostatic fluid and saliva , and in the following body tissues : heart , gallbladder , bone , biliary , peritoneal , prostatic , and uterine .
In clinical experience to date , no disulfiramlike reactions have been reported with Cefizox .
Microbiology The bactericidal action of Ceftizoxime results from inhibition of cellwall synthesis .
Ceftizoxime is highly resistant to a broad spectrum of betalactamases ( penicillinase and cephalosporinase ) , including Richmond types I , II , III , TEM , and IV , produced by both aerobic and anaerobic grampositive and gramnegative organisms .
Ceftizoxime has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Aerobic Gram - Positive Microorganisms Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase producing strains ) NOTE : Methicillin resistant staphylococci are resistant to cephalosporins , including ceftizoxime .
Staphylococcus epidermidis ( including penicillinase producing strains ) Streptococcus agalactiae Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes NOTE : A streptococcal isolate that is susceptible to penicillin can be considered susceptible to ceftizoxime 4 .
NOTE : Ceftizoxime is usually inactive against most strains of Enterococcus faecalis .
Aerobic Gram - Negative Microorganisms Enterobacter spp .
Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin resistant strains ) Klebsiella pneumoniae Morganella morganii Neisseria gonorrhoeae Proteus mirabilis Proteus vulgaris Providencia rettgeri Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia marcescens Anaerobic Microorganisms Bacteroides spp .
Peptococcus spp .
Peptostreptococcus spp .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 % of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for ceftizoxime .
However , the safety and effectiveness of ceftizoxime in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic Gram - Negative Microorganisms Aeromonas hydrophila Citrobacter spp .
Moraxellacatarrhalis Neisseria meningitidis Providencia stuartii Susceptibility Testing Methods : Dilution techniques : Quantitative methods are used to determine antimicrobial minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) .
These MICs provide estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
The MICs should be determined using a standardized procedure .
Standardized procedures are based on a dilution method1 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with standardized inoculum concentrations and standardized concentrations of ceftizoxime powder .
The MIC values should be interpreted according to the following criteria : For testing non - fastidious aerobic microorganisms other than Haemophilus spp . , Neisseria gonorrhoeae : MIC ( μg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 Susceptible ( S ) 16 - 32 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 64 Resistant ( R ) For testing Haemophilus spp .
[ 1 ] MIC ( μg / mL ) Interpretation [ 2 ] ≤ 2 Susceptible ( S ) For testing Neisseria gonorrhoeae [ 3 ] MIC ( μg / mL ) Interpretation null ≤ 0 . 5 Susceptible ( S ) [ 1 ] These interpretative standards are applicable only to broth microdilution susceptibility testing with Haemophilus spp .
using Haemophilus Test Medium . 2 [ 2 ] The current absence of data on resistant strains precludes defining any category other than “ susceptible ” .
Strains yielding MIC results suggestive of a “ nonsusceptible ” category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
[ 3 ] These interpretative standards are applicable only to agar dilution susceptibility testing using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplements .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone , which prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable , other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
Standard ceftizoxime powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( μg / mL ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 0 . 030 . 12 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 0 . 06 - 0 . 5 Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 0 . 008 - 0 . 03 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 16 - 64 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 28 Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure2 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 - μg ceftizoxime to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to ceftizoxime .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 - μg ceftizoxime disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone diameter interpretative standard for testing non - fastidious aerobic microorganisms other than Haemophilus spp .
and Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 20 Susceptible ( S ) 15 - 19 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) Zone diameter interpretative standard for testing Haemophilus spp .
[ 1 ] Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation [ 2 ] ≥ 26 Susceptible ( S ) Zone diameter interpretative standard for testing Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
[ 3 ] Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation null ≥ 38 Susceptible ( S ) [ 1 ] These zone diameter standards are applicable only to susceptibility testing with Haemophilus spp .
using Haemophilus Test Medium . 3 [ 2 ] The current absence of data on resistant strains precludes defining any category other than “ susceptible ” .
Strains yielding MIC results suggestive of a “ nonsusceptible ” category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing .
[ 3 ] These interpretative standards are applicable only to disk diffusion testing using GC agar base and 1 % defined growth supplements incubated at 5 % CO2 .
Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for ceftizoxime .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 - μg ceftizoxime disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 30 - 36 Haemophilus influenzae ATCC 49247 29 - 39 Neisseria gonorrhoeae ATCC 49226 42 - 51 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 12 - 17 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 27 - 35 Anaerobic Techniques : For anaerobic bacteria , the susceptibility to ceftizoxime as MICs can be determined by standardized test methods .
Agar dilution results can vary widely when using ceftizoxime .
It is recommended that broth microdilution method be used when possible . 3 The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( μg / mL ) Broth dilution Agar dilution Interpretation ≤ 16 ≤ 32 Susceptible ( S ) 32 64 Intermediate ( I ) ≥ 64 ≥ 128 Resistant ( R ) Interpretation is identical to that described in Susceptibility Testing : Dilution Techniques .
As with other susceptibility techniques , the use of laboratory control microorganisms is required to control the technical aspects of the laboratory standardized procedures .
Standardized ceftizoxime powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( μg / mL ) Broth dilution Agar dilution Eubacterium lentum ATCC 43055 16 - 64 16 - 64 Bacteriodes thetaiotaomicron ATCC 29741 --- 4 - 16 Susceptibility Testing for Pseu domonas in Urinary Tract Infections Most strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa are moderately susceptible to ceftizoxime .
Ceftizoxime achieves high levels in the urine ( greater than 6000 mcg / mL at 2 hours with 1 gram IV ) and , therefore , the following zone sizes should be used when testing ceftizoxime for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Susceptible organisms produce zones of 20 mm or greater , indicating that the test organism is likely to respond to therapy .
Organisms that produce zones of 11 to 19 mm are expected to be susceptible when the infection is confined to the urinary tract ( in which high antibiotic levels are attained ) .
Resistant organisms produce zones of 10 mm or less , indicating that other therapy should be selected .
Indications and Usage Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of the microorganisms listed below .
Lower Respiratory Tract Infections caused by Klebsiella spp . ; Proteus mirabilis ; Escherichia coli ; Haemophilus influenzae including ampicillinresistant strains ; Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinaseproducing ) ; Serratia spp . ; Enterobacter spp . ; Bacteroides spp . ; and Streptococcus spp .
including S . pneumoniae , but excluding enterococci .
Urinary Tract Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinaseproducing ) ; Escherichia coli ; Pseudomonas spp .
including P . aeruginosa ; Proteus mirabilis ; P . vulgaris ; Providencia rettgeri ( formerly Proteus rettgeri ) and Morganella morganii ( formerly Proteus morganii ) ; Klebsiella spp . ; Serratia spp .
including S . marcescens ; and Enterobacter spp .
Gonorrhea including uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Escherichia coli or Streptococcus agalactiae .
NOTE : Ceftizoxime , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and C . trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate anti chlamydial coverage should be added .
IntraAbdominal Infections caused by Escherichia coli ; Staphylococcusepidermidis ; Streptococcus spp .
( excluding enterococci ) ; Enterobacter spp . ; Klebsiella spp . ; Bacteroides spp .
including B . fragilis ; and anaerobic cocci , including Peptococcus spp .
and Peptostreptococcus spp .
Septicemia caused by Streptococcus spp .
including S . pneumoniae ( but excluding enterococci ) ; Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinaseproducing ) ; Escherichia coli ; Bacteroides spp .
including B . fragilis ; Klebsiella spp . ; and Serratia spp .
Skin and Skin Structure Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinaseproducing ) ; Staphylococcus epidermidis ; Escherichia coli ; Klebsiella spp . ; Streptococcus spp .
including Streptococcus pyogenes ( but excluding enterococci ) ; Proteus mirabilis ; Serratia spp . ; Enterobacter spp . ; Bacteroides spp .
including B . fragilis ; and anaerobic cocci , including Peptococcus spp .
and Peptostreptococcus spp .
Bone and Joint Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and nonpenicillinaseproducing ) ; Streptococcus spp .
( excluding enterococci ) ; Proteusmirabilis ; Bacteroides spp . ; and anaerobic cocci , including Peptococcus spp .
and Peptostreptococcus spp .
Meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae .
Cefizox has also been used successfully in the treatment of a limited number of pediatric and adult cases of meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Cefizox has been effective in the treatment of seriously ill , compromised patients , including those who were debilitated , immunosuppressed , or neutropenic .
Infections caused by aerobic gramnegative and by mixtures of organisms resistant to other cephalosporins , aminoglycosides , or penicillins have responded to treatment with Cefizox .
Because of the serious nature of some urinary tract infections due to P . aeruginosa and because many strains of Pseudomonas species are only moderately susceptible to Cefizox , higher dosage is recommended .
Other therapy should be instituted if the response is not prompt .
Susceptibility studies on specimens obtained prior to therapy should be used to determine the response of causative organisms to Cefizox .
Therapy with Cefizox may be initiated pending results of the studies ; however , treatment should be adjusted according to study findings .
In serious infections , Cefizox has been used concomitantly with aminoglycosides ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Before using Cefizox concomitantly with other antibiotics , the prescribing information for those agents should be reviewed for contraindications , warnings , precautions , and adverse reactions .
Renal function should be carefully monitored .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefizox and other antibacterial drugs , Cefizox should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Contraindications Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) is contraindicated in patients who have known allergy to the drug .
Warnings BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFIZOX IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFIZOX , OTHER CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
IF THIS PRODUCT IS TO BE GIVEN TO PENICILLIN SENSITIVE PATIENTS , CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG BETALACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10 % OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFIZOX OCCURS , DISCONTINUE THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES , INCLUDING OXYGEN , IV FLUIDS , IV ANTIHISTAMINES , CORTICOSTEROIDS , PRESSOR AMINES , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , AS CLINICALLY INDICATED .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including ceftizoxime , and may range in severity from mild to life threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of “ antibioticassociated ” colitis .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , appropriate therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis .
Precautions General As with all broadspectrum antibiotics , Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Although Cefizox has not been shown to produce an alteration in renal function , renal status should be evaluated , especially in seriously ill patients receiving maximum dose therapy .
As with any antibiotic , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation is essential ; appropriate measures should be taken if superinfection occurs .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment , or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated .
Prescribing Cefizox in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Although the occurrence has not been reported with Cefizox , nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of other cephalosporins and aminoglycosides .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Longterm studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ceftizoxime have not been conducted .
In an in vitro bacterial cell assay ( i . e . , Ames test ) , there was no evidence of mutagenicity at ceftizoxime concentrations of 0 . 0010 . 5 mcg / plate .
Ceftizoxime did not produce increases in micronuclei in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test when given to animals at doses up to 7500 mg / kg , approximately six times greater than the maximum human daily dose on a mg / M2 basis .
Ceftizoxime had no effect on fertility when administered subcutaneously to rats at daily doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day , approximately two times the maximum human daily dose on a mg / M2 basis .
Ceftizoxime produced no histological changes in the sexual organs of male and female dogs when given intravenously for thirteen weeks at a dose of 1000 mg / kg / day , approximately five times greater than the maximum human daily dose on a mg / M2 basis .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Cefizox .
There are , however , no adequate and wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human effects , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Safety of Cefizox use during labor and delivery has not been established .
Nursing Mothers Cefizox is excreted in human milk in low concentrations .
Caution should be exercised when Cefizox is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients from birth to six months of age have not been established .
In pediatric patients six months of age and older , treatment with Cefizox has been associated with transient elevated levels of eosinophils , AST ( SGOT ) , ALT ( SGPT ) , and CPK ( creatine phosphokinase ) .
The CPK elevation may be related to IM administration .
The potential for the toxic effect in pediatric patients from chemicals that may leach from the singledose IV preparation in plastic has not been determined .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of ceftizoxime did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Cefizox should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefizox is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefizox or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Adverse Reactions Cefizox ® ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) is generally well tolerated .
The most frequent adverse reactions ( greater than 1 % but less than 5 % ) are : Hypersensitivity -- Rash , pruritus , fever .
Hepatic -- Transient elevation in AST ( SGOT ) , ALT ( SGPT ) , and alkaline phosphatase .
Hematologic -- Transient eosinophilia , thrombocytosis .
Some individuals have developed a positive Coombs test .
Local -- Injection site -- Burning , cellulitis , phlebitis with IV administration , pain , induration , tenderness , paresthesia .
The less frequent adverse reactions ( less than 1 % ) are : Hypersensitivity -- Numbness and anaphylaxis have been reported rarely .
Hepatic -- Elevation of bilirubin has been reported rarely .
Renal -- Transient elevations of BUN and creatinine have been occasionally observed with Cefizox .
Hematologic -- Anemia , including hemolytic anemia with occasional fatal outcome , leukopenia , neutropenia , and thrombocytopenia have been reported rarely .
Urogenital -- Vaginitis has occurred rarely .
Gastrointestinal -- Diarrhea ; nausea and vomiting have been reported occasionally .
Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftizoxime , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporinclass antibiotics : StevensJohnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , serumsickness like reaction , toxic nephropathy , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , prolonged prothrombin time , elevated LDH , pancytopenia , and agranulocytosis .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment , when the dosage was not reduced .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
Dosage and Administration Note : Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) in the ADD - Vantage ® vial is intended for intravenous infusion only after dilution with the appropriate volume of ADD - Vantage diluent solution .
The usual adult dosage is 1 or 2 grams of Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) every 8 to 12 hours .
Proper dosage and route of administration should be determined by the condition of the patient , severity of the infection , and susceptibility of the causative organisms .
General Guidelines for Dosage of CefizoxType of Infection Daily Dose ( Grams ) Frequency and Route Uncomplicated Urinary Tract 1 500 mg q12h IM or IV Other Sites 2 - 3 1 gram q8 - 12 h IM or IV Severe or Refractory 3 - 6 1 gram q8h IM or IV 2 grams q8 - 12 h IM [ 1 ] or IV PID [ 2 ] 6 2 grams q8h IV Life - Threatening [ 3 ] 9 - 12 3 - 4 grams q8h IV [ 1 ] When administering 2 gram IM doses , the dose should be divided and given in different large muscle masses .
[ 2 ] If C . trachomatis is a suspected pathogen , appropriate anti chlamydial coverage should be added , because ceftizoxime has no activity against this organism .
[ 3 ] In lifethreatening infections , dosages up to 2 grams every 4 hours have been given .
Because of the serious nature of urinary tract infections due to P . aeruginosa and because many strains of Pseudomonas species are only moderately susceptible to Cefizox , higher dosage is recommended .
Other therapy should be instituted if the response is not prompt .
A single , 1 gram IM dose is the usual dose for treatment of uncomplicated gonorrhea .
The IV route may be preferable for patients with bacterial septicemia , localized parenchymal abscesses ( such as intra abdominal abscess ) , peritonitis , or other severe or lifethreatening infections .
In those with normal renal function , the IV dosage for such infections is 2 to 12 grams of Cefizox ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) daily .
In conditions such as bacterial septicemia , 6 to 12 grams / day may be given initially by the IV route for several days , and the dosage may then be gradually reduced according to clinical response and laboratory findings .
Pediatric Dosage Schedule Unit Dose Frequency Pediatric patients 6 months or older 50 mg / kg q6 - 8 h Dosage may be increased to a total daily dose of 200 mg / kg ( not to exceed the maximum adult dose for serious infection ) .
Impaired Renal Function Modification of Cefizox dosage is necessary in patients with impaired renal function .
Following an initial loading dose of 500 mg - 1 gram IM or IV , the maintenance dosing schedule shown below should be followed .
Further dosing should be determined by therapeutic monitoring , severity of the infection , and susceptibility of the causative organisms .
When only the serum creatinine level is available , creatinine clearance may be calculated from the following formula .
The serum creatinine level should represent current renal function at the steady state .
Males Clcr = Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 age ) 72 x serum creatinine ( mg / 100 mL ) Females are 0 . 85 of the calculated clearance values for males .
In patients undergoing hemodialysis , no additional supplemental dosing is required following hemodialysis ; however , dosing should be timed so that the patient receives the dose ( according to the table below ) at the end of the dialysis .
Dosage in Adults with Reduced Renal FunctionCreatinine Clearance mL / min Renal Function Less Severe Infections Life - Threatening Infections 79 - 50 Mild Impairment 500 mg q8h 0 . 75 - 1 . 5 grams q8h 49 - 5 Moderate to severe impairment 250 - 500 mg q12h 0 . 5 - 1 gram q12h 4 - 0 Dialysis Patients 500 mg q48h or 250 mg q24h 0 . 5 - 1 gram q48h or 0 . 5 gram q24h Reconstitution Cefizox in the ADD - Vantage vial is intended for use with ADD - Vantage diluent containers only , available in 50 mL and 100 mL sizes of Sodium Chloride Injection 0 . 9 % and Dextrose Injection 5 % .
Ordinarily , the ADD - Vantage vials should be reconstituted only when it is certain that the patient is ready to receive the drug .
However , reconstitued Cefizox is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or 96 hours under refrigeration 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
To Open ADD - Vantage ® Diluent Containers Peel overwrap at corner and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container ( Use Aseptic Technique ) 1 .
Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows : a . To remove the breakaway vial cap , swing the pull ring over the top of the vial and pull down far enough to start the opening ( SEE FIGURE 1 . )
, then pull straight up to remove the cap .
( SEE FIGURE 2 . )
NOTE : Once the breakaway cap has been removed , do not access vial with syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] b . To remove the vial port cover , grasp the tab on the pull ring , pull up to break the three tie strings , then pull further to remove the cover .
( SEE FIGURE 3 . )
2 .
Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no further .
THE VIAL MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL .
This occurs approximately ½ turn ( 180 ° ) after the first audible click .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
The clicking sound does not assure a seal ; the vial must be turned as far as it will go .
NOTE : Once vial is sealed , do not attempt to remove .
( SEE FIGURE 4 . )
3 .
Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further in the direction of assembly .
4 .
Label appropriately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To Prepare Admixture • Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial .
• With the other hand , push the drug vial down into the container telescoping the walls of the container .
Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls of the container .
( SEE FIGURE 5 . )
• Pull the inner cap from the drug vial .
( SEE FIGURE 6 . )
Verify that the rubber stopper has been pulled out , allowing the diluent to enter the drug vial and thoroughly dissolve the powder .
• Mix container contents thoroughly by inverting several times , and use within the specified time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparation for Administration ( Use Aseptic Technique ) • Confirm the activation and admixture of vial contents .
• Check for leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard unit as sterility may be impaired .
• Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated .
NOTE : See full directions on administration set carton .
• Lift the free end of the hanger loop on the bottom of the vial , breaking the two tie strings .
Bend the loop outward to lock it in the upright position , then suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Open flow control clamp and clear air from set .
Close clamp .
• Attach set to venipuncture device .
If device is not indwelling , prime and make venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How Supplied Cefizox ® ( ceftizoxime for injection , USP ) in ADD - Vantage ® Vials NDC 0469 - 7271 - 01 Product No . 727101 equivalent to 1 gram ceftizoxime , packaged in tens NDC 0469 - 7272 - 02 Product No . 727202 equivalent to 2 grams ceftizoxime , packaged in tens Unreconstituted Cefizox should be protected from excessive light , and stored at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) in the original package until used .
ADD - Vantage ® is registered trademark of Abbott Laboratories .
U . S . Patent 4 , 427 , 674 Product of Japan REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically – Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A5 , Vol .
20 , No . 2 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests – Seventh Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A7 , Vol .
20 , No . 1 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January 2000 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria – Fourth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M11 - A4 , Vol .
17 , No . 22 , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , December 1997 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
MIC Testing Supplemental Tables .
NCCLS Document M100 - S10 ( M7 ) , NCCLS , Wayne , PA , January 2000 .
Rx only Manufactured for Fujisawa Healthcare , Inc .
Deerfield , IL 60015 - 2548 by GlaxoSmithKline , Philadelphia , PA 19101
