DESCRIPTION Terazosin hydrochloride , an alpha - 1 - selective adrenoceptor blocking agent , is a quinazoline derivative represented by the following chemical name , molecular formula and structural formula : ( RS ) - Piperazine , 1 - ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) - 4 - [ ( tetrahydro - 2 - furanyl ) carbonyl ] - , monohydrochloride . C19H26ClN5O4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terazosin hydrochloride is a white , crystalline substance , freely soluble in water and isotonic saline and has a molecular weight of 423 . 93 .
Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 1 mg , 2 mg , 5 mg or 10 mg of terazosin as terazosin hydrochlolde .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and pregelatinized starch .
The gelatin capsule contains gelatin , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
The 1 mg shell also contains black iron oxide ; the 2 mg capsule shell also contains D & C Yellow # 10 ; the 5 mg capsule shell also contains D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 40 and D & C Red # 28 ; the 10 mg capsule shell also contains FD & C Green # 3 and D & C Yellow # 10 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics A . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ( BPH ) The symptoms associated with BPH are related to bladder outlet obstruction , which is comprised of two underlying components : a static component and a dynamic component .
The static component is a consequence of an increase in prostate size .
Over time , the prostate will continue to enlarge .
However , clinical studies have demonstrated that the size of the prostate does not correlate with the severity of BPH symptoms or the degree of urinary obstruction .
The dynamic component is a function of an increase in smooth muscle tone in the prostate and bladder neck , leading to constriction of the bladder outlet .
Smooth muscle tone is mediated by sympathetic nervous stimulation of alpha - 1 adrenoceptors , which are abundant in the prostate , prostatic capsule and bladder neck .
The reduction in symptoms and improvement in urine flow rates following administration of terazosin is related to relaxation of smooth muscle produced by blockade of alpha - 1 adrenoceptors in the bladder neck and prostate .
Because there are relatively few alpha - 1 adrenoceptors in the bladder body , terazosin is able to reduce the bladder outlet obstruction without affecting bladder contractility .
Terazosin has been studied in 1222 men with symptomatic BPH .
In three placebo - controlled studies , symptom evaluation and uroflowmetric measurements were performed approximately 24 hours following dosing .
Symptoms were quantified using the Boyarsky Index .
The questionnaire evaluated both obstructive ( hesitancy , intermittency , terminal dribbling , impairment of size and force of stream , sensation of incomplete bladder emptying ) and irritative ( nocturia , daytime frequency , urgency , dysuria ) symptoms by rating each of the 9 symptoms from 0 to 3 , for a total score of 27 points .
Results from these studies indicated that terazosin statistically significantly improved symptoms and peak urine flow rates over placebo as follows : Symptom Score Change % Peak Flow Rate Change % Range ( 0 - 27 ) ( mL / sec ) Mean Mean Mean Mean N Baseline N Baseline Study 1 ( 10 mg ) a Titration to fixed dose ( 12 wks ) Placebo 55 9 . 7 - 2 . 3 ( 24 ) 54 10 . 1 + 1 . 0 ( 10 ) Terazosin 54 10 . 1 - 4 . 5 ( 45 ) * 52 8 . 8 + 3 . 0 ( 34 ) * Study 2 ( 2 , 5 , 10 , 20 mg ) b Titration to Response ( 24 wks ) Placebo 89 12 . 5 - 3 . 8 ( 30 ) 88 8 . 8 + 1 . 4 ( 16 ) Terazosin 85 12 . 2 - 5 . 3 ( 43 ) * 84 8 . 4 + 2 . 9 ( 35 ) * Study 3 ( 1 , 2 , 5 , 10 mg ) c Titration to response ( 24 wks ) Placebo 74 10 . 4 - 1 . 1 ( 11 ) 74 8 . 8 + 1 . 2 ( 14 ) Terazosin 73 10 . 9 - 4 . 6 ( 42 ) * 73 8 . 6 + 2 . 6 ( 30 ) * a Highest dose 10 mg shown .
b 23 % of patients on 10 mg , 41 % of patients on 20 mg .
c 67 % of patients on 10 mg .
* Significantly ( p ≤ 0 . 05 ) more improvement than placebo .
In all three studies , both symptom scores and peak urine flow rates showed statistically significant improvement from baseline in patients treated with terazosin capsules from week 2 ( or the first clinic visit ) and throughout the study duration .
Analysis of the effect of terazosin capsules on individual urinary symptoms demonstrated that compared to placebo , terazosin significantly improved the symptoms of hesitancy , intermittency , impairment in size and force of urinary stream , sensation of incomplete emptying , terminal dribbling , daytime frequency and nocturia .
Global assessments of overall urinary function and symptoms were also performed by investigators who were blinded to patient treatment assignment .
In studies 1 and 3 , patients treated with terazosin had a significantly ( p ≤ 0 . 001 ) greater overall improvement compared to placebo treated patients .
In a short term study ( Study 1 ) , patients were randomized to either 2 , 5 or 10 mg of terazosin or placebo .
Patients randomized to the 10 mg group achieved a statistically significant response in both symptoms and peak flow rate compared to placebo ( Figure 1 ) .
FIGURE 1 . , STUDY 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] † for baseline values see above table * p ≤ 0 . 05 , compared to placebo group In a long - term , open - label , non - placebo controlled clinical trial , 181 men were followed for 2 years and 58 of these men were followed for 30 months .
The effect of terazosin on urinary symptom scores and peak flow rates was maintained throughout the study duration ( Figures 2 and 3 ) : FIGURE 2 .
Mean Change in Total Symptom Score from Baseline Long - Term , Open - Label , Non - Placebo Controlled Study ( N = 494 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] * p ≤ 0 . 05 vs . baseline mean baseline = 10 . 7 FIGURE 3 .
Mean Change in Peak Flow Rate from Baseline Long - Term , Open - Label , Non - Placebo Controlled Study ( N = 494 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] * p ≤ 0 . 05 vs . baseline ; mean baseline = 9 . 9 In this long - term trial , both symptom scores and peak urinary flow rates showed statistically significant improvement suggesting a relaxation of smooth muscle cells .
Although blockade of alpha - 1 adrenoceptors also lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients with increased peripheral vascular resistance , terazosin treatment of normotensive men with BPH did not result in a clinically significant blood pressure lowering effect : Mean Changes in Blood Pressure from Baseline to Final Visit in all Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Studies Group NormotensivePatientsDBP ≤ 90 mm Hg HypertensivePatientsDBP > 90 mm Hg N MeanChange N MeanChange SBP ( mm Hg ) PlaceboTerazosin 293 519 - 0 . 1 - 3 . 3 [ 1 ] 45 65 - 5 . 8 - 14 . 4 null DBP ( mm Hg ) PlaceboTerazosin 293 519 + 0 . 4 - 2 . 2 null 45 65 - 7 . 1 - 15 . 1 null [ 1 ] p ≤ 0 . 05 vs . placebo [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Hypertension In animals , terazosin causes a decrease in blood pressure by decreasing total peripheral vascular resistance .
The vasodilatory hypotensive action of terazosin appears to be produced mainly by blockade of alpha - 1 adrenoceptors .
Terazosin decreases blood pressure gradually within 15 minutes following oral administration .
Patients in clinical trials of terazosin were administered once daily ( the great majority ) and twice daily regimens with total doses usually in the range of 5 to 20 mg / day , and had mild ( about 77 % , diastolic pressure 95 to 105 mmHg ) or moderate ( 23 % , diastolic pressure 105 to 115 mmHg ) hypertension .
Because terazosin , like all alpha antagonists , can cause unusually large falls in blood pressure after the first dose or first few doses , the initial dose was 1 mg in virtually all trials , with subsequent titration to a specified fixed dose or titration to some specified blood pressure end point ( usually a supine diastolic pressure of 90 mmHg ) .
Blood pressure responses were measured at the end of the dosing interval ( usually 24 hours ) and effects were shown to persist throughout the interval , with the usual supine responses 5 to 10 mmHg systolic and 3 . 5 to 8 mmHg diastolic greater than placebo .
The responses in the standing position tended to be somewhat larger , by 1 to 3 mmHg , although this was not true in all studies .
The magnitude of the blood pressure responses was similar to prazosin and less than hydrochlorothiazide ( in a single study of hypertensive patients ) .
In measurements 24 hours after dosing , heart rate was unchanged .
Limited measurements of peak response ( 2 to 3 hours after dosing ) during chronic terazosin administration indicate that it is greater than about twice the trough ( 24 hour ) response , suggesting some attenuation of response at 24 hours , presumably due to a fall in blood terazosin concentrations at the end of the dose interval .
This explanation is not established with certainty , however , and is not consistent with the similarity of blood pressure response to once daily and twice daily dosing and with the absence of an observed dose - response relationship over a range of 5 to 20 mg , i . e . , if blood concentrations had fallen to the point of providing less than full effect at 24 hours , a shorter dosing interval or larger dose should have led to increased response .
Further dose response and dose duration studies are being carried out .
Blood pressure should be measured at the end of the dose interval ; if response is not satisfactory , patients may be tried on a larger dose or twice daily dosing regimen .
The latter should also be considered if possibly blood pressure - related side effects , such as dizziness , palpitations , or orthostatic complaints , are seen within a few hours after dosing .
The greater blood pressure effect associated with peak plasma concentrations ( first few hours after dosing ) appears somewhat more position - dependent ( greater in the erect position ) than the effect of terazosin at 24 hours and in the erect position there is also a 6 to 10 beat per minute increase in heart rate in the first few hours after dosing .
During the first 3 hours after dosing 12 . 5 % of patients had a systolic pressure fall of 30 mmHg or more from supine to standing , or standing systolic pressure below 90 mmHg with a fall of at least 20 mmHg , compared to 4 % of a placebo group .
There was a tendency for patients to gain weight during terazosin therapy .
In placebo - controlled monotherapy trials , male and female patients receiving terazosin gained a mean of 1 . 7 and 2 . 2 pounds respectively , compared to losses of 0 . 2 and 1 . 2 pounds respectively in the placebo group .
Both differences were statistically significant .
During controlled clinical trials , patients receiving terazosin monotherapy had a small but statistically significant decrease ( a 3 % fall ) compared to placebo in total cholesterol and the combined low - density and very - low - density lipoprotein fractions .
No significant changes were observed in high - density lipoprotein fraction and triglycerides compared to placebo .
Analysis of clinical laboratory data following administration of terazosin suggested the possibility of hemodilution based on decreases in hematocrit , hemoglobin , white blood cells , total protein and albumin .
Decreases in hematocrit and total protein have been observed with alpha - blockade and are attributed to hemodilution .
Pharmacokinetics Terazosin hydrochloride administered as capsules is essentially completely absorbed in man .
Administration of capsules immediately after meals had a minimal effect on the extent of absorption .
The time to reach peak plasma concentration however , was delayed by about 40 minutes .
Terazosin has been shown to undergo minimal hepatic first - pass metabolism and nearly all of the circulating dose is in the form of parent drug .
The plasma levels peak about one hour after dosing , and then decline with a half - life of approximately 12 hours .
In a study that evaluated the effect of age on terazosin pharmacokinetics , the mean plasma half - lives were 14 . 0 and 11 . 4 hours for the age group ≥ 70 years and the age group of 20 to 39 years , respectively .
After oral administration the plasma clearance was decreased by 31 . 7 % in patients 70 years of age or older compared to that in patients 20 to 39 years of age .
The drug is 90 to 94 % bound to plasma proteins and binding is constant over the clinically observed concentration range .
Approximately 10 % of an orally administered dose is excreted as parent drug in the urine and approximately 20 % is excreted in the feces .
The remainder is eliminated as metabolites .
Impaired renal function had no significant effect on the elimination of terazosin , and dosage adjustment of terazosin to compensate for the drug removal during hemodialysis ( approximately 10 % ) does not appear to be necessary .
Overall , approximately 40 % of the administered dose is excreted in the urine and approximately 60 % in the feces .
The disposition of the compound in animals is qualitatively similar to that in man .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terazosin capsules are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) .
There is a rapid response , with approximately 70 % of patients experiencing an increase in urinary flow and improvement in symptoms of BPH when treated with terazosin capsules .
The long - term effects of terazosin capsules on the incidence of surgery , acute urinary obstruction or other complications of BPH are yet to be determined .
Terazosin capsules are also indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
Terazosin capsules can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Terazosin capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to terazosin hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Syncope and “ First - dose ” Effect Terazosin capsules , like other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents , can cause marked lowering of blood pressure , especially postural hypotension , and syncope in association with the first dose or first few days of therapy .
A similar effect can be anticipated if therapy is interrupted for several days and then restarted .
Syncope has also been reported with other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents in association with rapid dosage increases or the introduction of another antihypertensive drug .
Syncope is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect , although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe supraventricular tachycardia with heart rates of 120 to 160 beats per minute .
Additionally , the possibility of the contribution of hemodilution to the symptoms of postural hypotension should be considered .
To decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension , treatment should always be initiated with a 1 mg dose of terazosin capsules , given at bedtime .
The 2 mg , 5 mg and 10 mg capsules are not indicated as initial therapy .
Dosage should then be increased slowly , according to recommendations in the Dosage and Administration section and additional antihypertensive agents should be added with caution .
The patient should be cautioned to avoid situations , such as driving or hazardous tasks , where injury could result should syncope occur during initiation of therapy .
In early investigational studies , where increasing single doses up to 7 . 5 mg were given at 3 day intervals , tolerance to the first dose phenomenon did not necessarily develop and the “ first - dose ” effect could be observed at all doses .
Syncopal episodes occurred in 3 of the 14 subjects given terazosin at doses of 2 . 5 , 5 and 7 . 5 mg , which are higher than the recommended initial dose ; in addition , severe orthostatic hypotension ( blood pressure falling to 50 / 0 mmHg ) was seen in two others and dizziness , tachycardia , and lightheadedness occurred in most subjects .
These adverse effects all occurred within 90 minutes of dosing .
In three placebo - controlled BPH studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , the incidence of postural hypotension in the terazosin treated patients was 5 . 1 % , 5 . 2 % , and 3 . 7 % respectively .
In multiple dose clinical trials involving nearly 2000 hypertensive patients treated with terazosin capsules , syncope was reported in about 1 % of patients .
Syncope was not necessarily associated only with the first dose .
If syncope occurs , the patient should be placed in a recumbent position and treated supportively as necessary .
There is evidence that the orthostatic effect of terazosin is greater , even in chronic use , shortly after dosing .
The risk of the events is greatest during the initial seven days of treatment , but continues at all time intervals .
Priapism Rarely , ( probably less than once in every several thousand patients ) , terazosin and other α1 - antagonists have been associated with priapism ( painful penile erection , sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation ) .
Two or three dozen cases have been reported .
Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated , patients must be advised about the seriousness of the condition ( see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Prostatic Cancer Carcinoma of the prostate and BPH cause many of the same symptoms .
These two diseases frequently co - exist .
Therefore , patients thought to have BPH should be examined prior to starting terazosin capsule therapy to rule out the presence of carcinoma of the prostate .
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on / or previously treated with alpha - 1 blockers .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ’ s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha - 1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery .
Orthostatic Hypotension While syncope is the most severe orthostatic effect of terazosin ( see WARNINGS ) , other symptoms of lowered blood pressure , such as dizziness , lightheadedness and palpitations , were more common and occurred in some 28 % of patients in clinical trials of hypertension .
In BPH clinical trials , 21 % of the patients experienced one or more of the following : dizziness , hypotension , postural hypotension , syncope , and vertigo .
Patients with occupations in which such events represent potential problems should be treated with particular caution .
Information for Patients ( see Patient Package Insert ) Patients should be made aware of the possibility of syncopal and orthostatic symptoms , especially at the initiation of therapy , and to avoid driving or hazardous tasks for 12 hours after the first dose , after a dosage increase , and after interruption of therapy when treatment is resumed .
They should be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur during initiation of terazosin therapy .
They should also be advised of the need to sit or lie down when symptoms of lowered blood pressure occur , although these symptoms are not always orthostatic , and to be careful when rising from a sitting or lying position .
If dizziness , lightheadedness , or palpitations are bothersome they should be reported to the physician , so that dose adjustment can be considered .
Patients should also be told that drowsiness or somnolence can occur with terazosin , requiring caution in people who must drive or operate heavy machinery .
Patients should be advised about the possibility of priapism as a result of treatment with terazosin capsules and other similar medications .
Patients should know that this reaction to terazosin capsules is extremely rare , but that if it is not brought to immediate medical attention , it can lead to permanent erectile dysfunction ( impotence ) .
Laboratory Tests Small but statistically significant decreases in hematocrit , hemoglobin , white blood cells , total protein and albumin were observed in controlled clinical trials .
These laboratory findings suggested the possibility of hemodilution .
Treatment with terazosin capsules for up to 24 months had no significant effect on prostate specific antigen ( PSA ) levels .
Drug Interactions In controlled trials , terazosin have been added to diuretics , and several beta - adrenergic blockers ; no unexpected interactions were observed .
Terazosin has also been used in patients on a variety of concomitant therapies ; while these were not formal interaction studies , no interactions were observed .
Terazosin has been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes : • analgesic / anti - inflammatory ( e . g . , acetaminophen , aspirin , codeine , ibuprofen , indomethacin ) ; • antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin , trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole ) ; • anticholinergic / sympathomimetics ( e . g . , phenylephrine hydrochloride , phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride ) ; • antigout ( e . g . , allopurinol ) ; • antihistamines ( e . g . , chlorpheniramine ) ; • cardiovascular agents ( e . g . , atenolol , hydrochlorothiazide , methyclothiazide , propranolol ) ; • corticosteroids ; • gastrointestinal agents ( e . g . , antacids ) ; • hypoglycemics ; • sedatives and tranquilizers ( e . g . , diazepam ) .
Use With Other Drugs In a study ( n = 24 ) where terazosin and verapamil were administered concomitantly , terazosin ’ s mean AUC0 - 24 increased 11 % after the first verapamil dose and after 3 weeks of verapamil treatment it increased by 24 % with associated increases in Cmax ( 25 % ) and Cmin ( 32 % ) means .
Terazosin mean Tmax decreased from 1 . 3 hours to 0 . 8 hours after 3 weeks of verapamil treatment .
Statistically significant differences were not found in the verapamil level with and without terazosin .
In a study ( n = 6 ) where terazosin and captopril were administered concomitantly , plasma disposition of captopril was not influenced by concomitant administration of terazosin and terazosin maximum plasma concentrations increased linearly with dose at steady - state after administration of terazosin plus captopril ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Terazosin was devoid of mutagenic potential when evaluated in vivo and in vitro ( the Ames test , in vivo cytogenetics , the dominant lethal test in mice , in vivo Chinese hamster chromosome aberration test and V79 forward mutation assay ) .
Terazosin administered in the feed to rats at doses of 8 , 40 , and 250 mg / kg / day ( 70 , 350 , and 2100 mg / M2 / day ) , for two years , was associated with a statistically significant increase in benign adrenal medullary tumors of male rats exposed to the 250 mg / kg dose .
This dose is 175 times the maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg ( 12 mg / M2 ) .
Female rats were unaffected .
Terazosin was not oncogenic in mice when administered in feed for 2 years at a maximum tolerated dose of 32 mg / kg / day ( 110 mg / M2 ; 9 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
The absence of mutagenicity in a battery of tests , of tumorigenicity of any cell type in the mouse carcinogenicity assay , of increased total tumor incidence in either species , and of proliferative adrenal lesions in female rats , suggests a male rat species - specific event .
Numerous other diverse pharmaceutical and chemical compounds have also been associated with benign adrenal medullary tumors in male rats without supporting evidence for carcinogenicity in man .
The effect of terazosin on fertility was assessed in a standard fertility / reproductive performance study in which male and female rats were administered oral doses of 8 , 30 and 120 mg / kg / day .
Four of 20 male rats given 30 mg / kg ( 240 mg / M2 ; 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ) and five of 19 male rats given 120 mg / kg ( 960 mg / M2 ; 80 times the maximum recommended human dose ) failed to sire a litter .
Testicular weights and morphology were unaffected by treatment .
Vaginal smears at 30 and 120 mg / kg / day , however , appeared to contain less sperm than smears from control matings and good correlation was reported between sperm count and subsequent pregnancy .
Oral administration of terazosin for one or two years elicited a statistically significant increase in the incidence of testicular atrophy in rats exposed to 40 and 250 mg / kg / day ( 29 and 175 times the maximum recommended human dose ) , but not in rats exposed to 8 mg / kg / day ( > 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Testicular atrophy was also observed in dogs dosed with 300 mg / kg / day ( > 500 times the maximum recommended human dose ) for three months but not after one year when dosed with 20 mg / kg / day ( 38 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
This lesion has also been seen with Minipress ® , another ( marketed ) selective - alpha - 1 blocking agent .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Terazosin capsules were not teratogenic in either rats or rabbits when administered at oral doses up to 280 and 60 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose .
Fetal resorptions occurred in rats dosed with 480 mg / kg / day , approximately 280 times the maximum recommended human dose .
Increased fetal resorptions , decreased fetal weight and an increased number of supernumerary ribs were observed in offspring of rabbits dosed with 60 times the maximum recommended human dose .
These findings ( in both species ) were most likely secondary to maternal toxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women and the safety of terazosin in pregnancy has not been established .
Terazosin capsules are not recommended during pregnancy unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the mother and fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : In a peri - and post - natal development study in rats , significantly more pups died in the group dosed with 120 mg / kg / day ( > 75 times the maximum recommended human dose ) than in the control group during the three - week postpartum period .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether terazosin is excreted in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in breast milk , caution should be exercised when terazosin capsules are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been determined .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events has been ascertained from clinical trials conducted worldwide .
All adverse events reported during these trials were recorded as adverse reactions .
The incidence rates presented below are based on combined data from six placebo - controlled trials involving once - a - day administration of terazosin at doses ranging from 1 to 20 mg .
Table 1 summarizes those adverse events reported for patients in these trials when the incidence rate in the terazosin group was at least 1 % , and was greater than that for the placebo group , or where the reaction is of clinical interest .
Asthenia , postural hypotension , dizziness , somnolence , nasal congestion / rhinitis , and impotence were the only events that were significantly ( p ≤ 0 . 05 ) more common in patients receiving terazosin than in patients receiving placebo .
The incidence of urinary tract infection was significantly lower in the patients receiving terazosin than in patients receiving placebo .
An analysis of the incidence rate of hypotensive adverse events ( see PRECAUTIONS ) adjusted for the length of drug treatment has shown that the risk of the events is greatest during the initial seven days of treatment , but continues at all time intervals .
TABLE 1 .
Adverse Reactions During Placebo - Controlled Trials Benign Prostatic HyperplasiaBody System Terazosin ( N = 636 ) Placebo ( N = 360 ) BODY AS A WHOLE [ 1 ] Asthenia Flu Syndrome Headache 7 . 4 % [ 2 ] 2 . 4 % 4 . 9 % 3 . 3 % 1 . 7 % 5 . 8 % CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Hypotension Palpitations Postural Hypotension Syncope 0 . 6 % 0 . 9 % 3 . 9 % null 0 . 6 % 0 . 6 % 1 . 1 % 0 . 8 % 0 . 0 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Nausea 1 . 7 % 1 . 1 % METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS Peripheral Edema Weight Gain 0 . 9 % 0 . 5 % 0 . 3 % 0 . 0 % NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness Somnolence Vertigo 9 . 1 % null 3 . 6 % null 1 . 4 % 4 . 2 % 1 . 9 % 0 . 3 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea Nasal Congestion / Rhinitis 1 . 7 % 1 . 9 % null 0 . 8 % 0 . 0 % SPECIAL SENSES Blurred Vision / Amblyopia 1 . 3 % 0 . 6 % UROGENITAL SYSTEM Impotence Urinary Tract Infection 1 . 6 % null 1 . 3 % 0 . 6 % 3 . 9 % null [ 1 ] Includes weakness , tiredness , lassitude , and fatigue .
[ 2 ] p ≤ 0 . 05 comparison between groups .
Additional adverse events have been reported , but these are , in general , not distinguishable from symptoms that might have occurred in the absence of exposure to terazosin .
The safety profile of patients treated in the long - term open - label study was similar to that observed in the controlled studies .
The adverse events were usually transient and mild or moderate in intensity , but sometimes were serious enough to interrupt treatment .
In the placebo - controlled clinical trials , the rates of premature termination due to adverse events were not statistically different between the placebo and terazosin groups .
The adverse events that were bothersome , as judged by their being reported as reasons for discontinuation of therapy by at least 0 . 5 % of the terazosin group and being reported more often than in the placebo group , are shown in Table 2 .
TABLE 2 .
Discontinuation During Placebo - Controlled Trials Benign Prostatic HyperplasiaBody System Terazosin ( N = 636 ) Placebo ( N = 360 ) BODY AS A WHOLE Fever Headache 0 . 5 % 1 . 1 % 0 . 0 % 0 . 8 % CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Postural Hypotension Syncope 0 . 5 % 0 . 5 % 0 . 0 % 0 . 0 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Nausea 0 . 5 % 0 . 3 % NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness Vertigo 2 . 0 % 0 . 5 % 1 . 1 % 0 . 0 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea 0 . 5 % 0 . 3 % SPECIAL SENSES Blurred Vision / Amblyopia 0 . 6 % 0 . 0 % UROGENITAL SYSTEM Urinary Tract Infection 0 . 5 % 0 . 3 % Hypertension The prevalence of adverse reactions has been ascertained from clinical trials conducted primarily in the United States .
All adverse experiences ( events ) reported during these trials were recorded as adverse reactions .
The prevalence rates presented below are based on combined data from fourteen placebo - controlled trials involving once - a - day administration of terazosin , as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , at doses ranging from 1 to 40 mg .
Table 3 summarizes those adverse experiences reported for patients in these trials where the prevalence rate in the terazosin group was at least 5 % , where the prevalence rate for the terazosin group was at least 2 % and was greater than the prevalence rate for the placebo group , or where the reaction is of particular interest .
Asthenia , blurred vision , dizziness , nasal congestion , nausea , peripheral edema , palpitations and somnolence were the only symptoms that were significantly ( p < 0 . 05 ) more common in patients receiving terazosin than in patients receiving placebo .
Similar adverse reaction rates were observed in placebo - controlled monotherapy trials .
TABLE 3 .
Adverse Reactions During Placebo - Controlled Trials HypertensionBody System Terazosin ( N = 859 ) Placebo ( N = 506 ) BODY AS A WHOLE [ 1 ] Asthenia Back Pain Headache 11 . 3 % [ 2 ] 2 . 4 % 16 . 2 % 4 . 3 % 1 . 2 % 15 . 8 % CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Palpitations Postural Hypotension Tachycardia 4 . 3 % null 1 . 3 % 1 . 9 % 1 . 2 % 0 . 4 % 1 . 2 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Nausea 4 . 4 % null 1 . 4 % METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS Edema Peripheral Edema Weight Gain 0 . 9 % 5 . 5 % null 0 . 5 % 0 . 6 % 2 . 4 % 0 . 2 % MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM Pain – Extremities 3 . 5 % 3 . 0 % NERVOUS SYSTEM Depression Dizziness Libido Decreased Nervousness Paresthesia Somnolence 0 . 3 % 19 . 3 % null 0 . 6 % 2 . 3 % 2 . 9 % 5 . 4 % null 0 . 2 % 7 . 5 % 0 . 2 % 1 . 8 % 1 . 4 % 2 . 6 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea Nasal Congestion Sinusitis 3 . 1 % 5 . 9 % null 2 . 6 % 2 . 4 % 3 . 4 % 1 . 4 % SPECIAL SENSES Blurred Vision 1 . 6 % null 0 . 0 % UROGENITAL SYSTEM Impotence 1 . 2 % 1 . 4 % [ 1 ] Includes weakness , tiredness , lassitude , and fatigue .
[ 2 ] Statistically significant at p = 0 . 05 level .
Additional adverse reactions have been reported , but these are , in general , not distinguishable from symptoms that might have occurred in the absence of exposure to terazosin .
The following additional adverse reactions were reported by at least 1 % of 1987 patients who received terazosin in controlled or open , short - or long - term clinical trials or have been reported during marketing experience : Body as a Whole : Chest pain , facial edema , fever , abdominal pain , neck pain , shoulder pain .
Cardiovascular System : Arrhythmia , vasodilation .
Digestive System : Constipation , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , flatulence , vomiting .
Metabolic / Nutritional Disorders Gout .
Musculoskeletal System : Arthralgia , arthritis , joint disorder , myalgia .
Nervous System : Anxiety , insomnia .
Respiratory System : Bronchitis , cold symptoms , epistaxis , flu symptoms , increased cough , pharyngitis , rhinitis .
Skin and Appendages : Pruritus , rash , sweating .
Special Senses : Abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , tinnitus .
Urogenital System : Urinary frequency , urinary incontinence primarily reported in postmenopausal women , urinary tract infection .
The adverse reactions were usually mild or moderate in intensity but sometimes were serious enough to interrupt treatment .
The adverse reactions that were most bothersome , as judged by their being reported as reasons for discontinuation of therapy by at least 0 . 5 % of the terazosin group and being reported more often than in the placebo group , are shown in Table 4 .
TABLE 4 .
Discontinuations During Placebo - Controlled Trials HypertensionBody System Terazosin ( N = 859 ) Placebo ( N = 506 ) BODY AS A WHOLE Asthenia Headache 1 . 6 % 1 . 3 % 0 . 0 % 1 . 0 % CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Palpitations Postural Hypotension Syncope Tachycardia 1 . 4 % 0 . 5 % 0 . 5 % 0 . 6 % 0 . 2 % 0 . 0 % 0 . 2 % 0 . 0 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Nausea 0 . 8 % 0 . 0 % METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS Peripheral Edema 0 . 6 % 0 . 0 % NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness Paresthesia Somnolence 3 . 1 % 0 . 8 % 0 . 6 % 0 . 4 % 0 . 2 % 0 . 2 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Dyspnea Nasal Congestion 0 . 9 % 0 . 6 % 0 . 6 % 0 . 0 % SPECIAL SENSES Blurred Vision 0 . 6 % 0 . 0 % Post - marketing Experience Post - marketing experience indicates that in rare instances patients may develop allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , following administration of terazosin hydrochloride .
There have been reports of priapism and thrombocytopenia during post - marketing surveillance .
Atrial fibrillation has been reported .
During cataract surgery , a variant of small pupil syndrome known as Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been reported in association with alpha - 1 blocker therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGE Should overdosage of terazosin capsules lead to hypotension , support of the cardiovascular system is of first importance .
Restoration of blood pressure and normalization of heart rate may be accomplished by keeping the patient in the supine position .
If this measure is inadequate , shock should first be treated with volume expanders .
If necessary , vasopressors should then be used and renal function should be monitored and supported as needed .
Laboratory data indicate that terazosin is 90 - 94 % protein bound ; therefore , dialysis may not be of benefit .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If terazosin capsules administration is discontinued for several days , therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen .
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Initial Dose : 1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients , and this dose should not be exceeded as an initial dose .
Patients should be closely followed during initial administration in order to minimize the risk of severe hypotensive response .
Subsequent Doses : The dose should be increased in a stepwise fashion to 2 mg , 5 mg , or 10 mg once daily to achieve the desired improvement of symptoms and / or flow rates .
Doses of 10 mg once daily are generally required for the clinical response .
Therefore , treatment with 10 mg for a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks may be required to assess whether a beneficial response has been achieved .
Some patients may not achieve a clinical response despite appropriate titration .
Although some additional patients responded at a 20 mg daily dose , there was an insufficient number of patients studied to draw definitive conclusions about this dose .
There are insufficient data to support the use of higher doses for those patients who show inadequate or no response to 20 mg daily .
If terazosin administration is discontinued for several days or longer , therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen .
Use With Other Drugs : Caution should be observed when terazosin capsules are administered concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents , especially the calcium channel blocker verapamil , to avoid the possibility of developing significant hypotension .
When using terazosin capsules and other antihypertensive agents concomitantly , dosage reduction and retitration of either agent may be necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hypotension has been reported when terazosin capsules have been used with phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitors .
Hypertension The dose of terazosin capsules and the dose interval ( 12 or 24 hours ) should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a guide to its administration : Initial Dose 1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients , and this dose should not be exceeded .
This initial dosing regimen should be strictly observed to minimize the potential for severe hypotensive effects .
Subsequent Doses The dose may be slowly increased to achieve the desired blood pressure response .
The usual recommended dose range is 1 mg to 5 mg administered once a day ; however , some patients may benefit from doses as high as 20 mg per day .
Doses over 20 mg do not appear to provide further blood pressure effect and doses over 40 mg have not been studied .
Blood pressure should be monitored at the end of the dosing interval to be sure control is maintained throughout the interval .
It may also be helpful to measure blood pressure 2 to 3 hours after dosing to see if the maximum and minimum responses are similar , and to evaluate symptoms such as dizziness or palpitations which can result from excessive hypotensive response .
If response is substantially diminished at 24 hours an increased dose or use of a twice daily regimen can be considered .
If terazosin administration is discontinued for several days or longer , therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen .
In clinical trials , except for the initial dose , the dose was given in the morning .
Use With Other Drugs ( See above . )
HOW SUPPLIED Repackaged by Aphena Pharma Solutions - TN .
See Repackaging Information for available configurations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Terazosin Capsules are available in four dosage strengths : 1 mg Terazosin Capsules , USP are available as gray opaque cap / body printed “ TL 383 ” in black ink .
Bottles of 90 : NDC 59746 - 383 - 90 Bottles of 100 : NDC 59746 - 383 - 06 Bottles of 500 : NDC 59746 - 383 - 09 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 59746 - 383 - 10 2 mg Terazosin Capsules , USP are available as ivory opaque cap / body printed “ TL 384 ” in black ink .
Bottles of 90 : NDC 59746 - 384 - 90 Bottles of 100 : NDC 59746 - 384 - 06 Bottles of 500 : NDC 59746 - 384 - 09 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 59746 - 384 - 10 5 mg Terazosin Capsules , USP are available as bright orange opaque cap / body printed “ TL 385 ” in black ink .
Bottles of 90 : NDC 59746 - 385 - 90 Bottles of 100 : NDC 59746 - 385 - 06 Bottles of 500 : NDC 59746 - 385 - 09 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 59746 - 385 - 10 10 mg Terazosin Capsules , USP are available as light green opaque cap / body printed “ TL 386 ” in black ink .
Bottles of 90 : NDC 59746 - 386 - 90 Bottles of 100 : NDC 59746 - 386 - 06 Bottles of 500 : NDC 59746 - 386 - 09 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 59746 - 386 - 10 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Recommended storage : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Rx only Revised 08 / 12 Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Salisbury , MD 21801 , USA For additional copies of the printed patient information / medication guide , please visit www . cadista . com or call 1 - 800 - 313 - 4623 .
PATIENT INFORMATION ABOUT TERAZOSIN CAPSULES , USP Rx Only Generic Name : Terazosin ( Ter - A - so - sin ) When used to treat HYPERTENSION or BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA ( BPH ) Please read this leaflet before you start taking terazosin capsules .
Also , read it each time you get a new prescription .
This is a summary and should NOT take the place of a full discussion with your doctor who has additional information about Terazosin Capsules .
You and your doctor should discuss Terazosin Capsules and your condition before you start taking it and at your regular checkups .
Terazosin Capsules are used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Terazosin Capsules are also used to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) in men .
This leaflet describes Terazosin Capsules as a treatment for hypertension or BPH .
What is hypertension ( high blood pressure ) ?
Blood pressure is the tension of the blood within the blood vessels .
If blood is pumped too forcefully , or if the blood vessels are too narrow , the pressure of the blood against the walls of the vessels rises .
If high blood pressure is not treated , over time , the increased pressure can damage blood vessels or it can cause the heart to work too hard and may decrease the flow of blood to the heart , brain , and kidneys .
As a result , these organs may become damaged and not function correctly .
If high blood pressure is controlled , this damage is less likely to happen .
Treatment options for hypertension Non - drug treatments are sometimes effective in controlling mild hypertension .
The most important lifestyle changes to lower blood pressure are to lose weight , reduce salt , fat , and alcohol in the diet , quit smoking , and exercise regularly .
However , many hypertensive patients require one or more ongoing medications to control their blood pressure .
There are different kinds of medications used to treat hypertension .
Your doctor has prescribed Terazosin Capsules for you .
What Terazosin Capsules do to treat hypertension Terazosin capsules work by relaxing blood vessels so that blood passes through them more easily .
This helps to lower blood pressure .
What is BPH ?
The prostate is a gland located below the bladder of men .
It surrounds the urethra ( you - REETH - rah ) , which is a tube that drains urine from the bladder .
BPH is an enlargement of the prostate gland .
The symptoms of BPH , however , can be caused by an increase in the tightness of muscles in the prostate .
If the muscles inside the prostate tighten , they can squeeze the urethra and slow the flow of urine .
This can lead to symptoms such as : • a weak or interrupted stream when urinating • a feeling that you cannot empty your bladder completely • a feeling of delay when you start to urinate • a need to urinate often , especially at night , or • a feeling that you must urinate right away .
Treatment options for BPH There are three main treatment options for BPH : • Program of monitoring or “ Watchful Waiting ” .
Some men have an enlarged prostate gland , but no symptoms , or symptoms that are not bothersome .
If this applies , you and your doctor may decide on a program of monitoring including regular checkups , instead of medication or surgery .
• Medication .
There are different kinds of medication used to treat BPH .
Your doctor has prescribed Terazosin Capsules for you .
See “ What Terazosin Capsules do to treat BPH ” below .
• Surgery .
Some patients may need surgery .
Your doctor can describe several different surgical procedures to treat BPH .
Which procedure is best depends on your symptoms and medical condition .
What Terazosin Capsules do to treat BPH Terazosin Capsules relax the tightness of a certain type of muscle in the prostate and at the opening of the bladder .
This may increase the rate of urine flow and / or decrease the symptoms you are having .
• Terazosin Capsules help relieve the symptoms of BPH .
It does NOT change the size of the prostate , which may continue to grow .
However , a larger prostate does not necessarily cause more or worse symptoms .
• If Terazosin Capsules are helping you , you should notice an effect on your particular symptoms in 2 to 4 weeks of starting to take the medication .
• Even though you take Terazosin Capsules and they may help you , Terazosin Capsules may not prevent the need for surgery in the future .
Other important facts about Terazosin Capsules for BPH • You should see an effect on your symptoms in 2 to 4 weeks .
So , you will need to continue seeing your doctor to check your progress regarding your BPH and to monitor your blood pressure in addition to your other regular checkups .
• Your doctor has prescribed Terazosin Capsules for your BPH and not for prostate cancer .
However , a man can have BPH and prostate cancer at the same time .
Doctors usually recommend that men be checked for prostate cancer once a year when they turn 50 ( or 40 if a family member has had prostate cancer ) .
These checks should continue even if you are taking Terazosin Capsules .
Terazosin Capsules are not a treatment for prostate cancer .
• About Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) .
Your doctor may have done a blood test called PSA .
Your doctor is aware that Terazosin Capsules do not affect PSA levels .
You may want to ask your doctor more about this if you have had a PSA test done .
What you should know while taking Terazosin Capsules for hypertension or BPH WARNINGS Terazosin Capsules Can Cause a Sudden Drop in Blood Pressure After the VERY FIRST DOSE .
You may feel dizzy , faint , or “ light - headed ” particularly after you get up from bed or from a chair .
This is more likely to occur after you ’ ve taken the first few doses , but can occur at any time while you are taking the drug .
It can also occur if you stop taking the drug and then re - start treatment .
Because of this effect , your doctor may have told you to take Terazosin Capsules at bedtime .
If you take Terazosin Capsules at bedtime but need to get up from bed to go to the bathroom , get up slowly and cautiously until you are sure how the medicine affects you .
It is also important to get up slowly from a chair or bed at any time until you learn how you react to Terazosin Capsules .
You should not drive or do any hazardous tasks until you are used to the effects of the medication .
If you begin to feel dizzy , sit or lie down until you feel better .
• You will start with a 1 mg dose of Terazosin Capsules .
Then the dose will be increased as your body gets used to the effect of the medication .
• Other side effects you could have while taking Terazosin Capsules include drowsiness , blurred or hazy vision , nausea , or “ puffiness ” of the feet or hands .
Discuss any unexpected effects you notice with your doctor .
Extremely rarely , Terazosin Capsules and similar medications have caused painful erection of the penis , sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation .
This condition is serious , and if untreated it can be followed by permanent inability to have an erection .
If you have a prolonged abnormal erection , call your doctor or go to an emergency room as soon as possible .
How to take Terazosin Capsules Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about how to take Terazosin Capsules .
You must take it every day at the dose prescribed .
Talk with your doctor if you don ’ t take it for a few days , you may have to restart it at a 1 mg dose and be cautious about possible dizziness .
Do not share Terazosin Capsules with anyone else ; it was prescribed only for you .
Keep Terazosin Capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT TERAZOSIN CAPSULES AND HYPERTENSION OR BPH , TALK WITH YOUR DOCTOR , NURSE , PHARMACIST OR OTHER HEALTH CARE PROVIDER .
Revised 08 / 12 Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Salisbury , MD 21801 , USA .
For additional copies of the printed patient information leaflet / medication guide , please visit www . cadista . com or call 1 - 800 - 313 - 4623 .
Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets or capsules .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 1 mg 2 mg 5 mg 10 mg 30 67544 - 581 - 30 67544 - 562 - 30 67544 - 563 - 30 67544 - 564 - 30 60 67544 - 581 - 53 67544 - 562 - 53 67544 - 563 - 53 67544 - 564 - 53 90 67544 - 581 - 60 67544 - 562 - 60 67544 - 563 - 60 67544 - 564 - 60 120 - 67544 - 562 - 70 - - 180 - 67544 - 562 - 80 67544 - 563 - 80 67544 - 564 - 80 270 - 67544 - 562 - 92 - - 360 - 67544 - 562 - 94 - - Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20140501 SC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mg NDC 67544 - 581 - Terazosin HCI 1 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg NDC 67544 - 562 - Terazosin HCI 2 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg NDC 67544 - 563 - Terazosin HCI 5 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg NDC 67544 - 564 - Terazosin HCI 10 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
