Liver Stomach Concentrate Capsule Hematinic Conentrate with Intrinsic Factor NDC 63044 - 635 - 10 Rx Only WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
A Highly Potent Oral Antianemia Preparation DESCRIPTION Each TRICON ™ Capsule contains : Special liver - stomach concentrate ( containing intrinsic factor ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
240 mg Vitamin B12 ( activity equivalent ) . . . . . . . . . . .
. 15 mcg Iron , elemental ( ferrous fumarate ) . . . . . . . . . . 110 mg Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
75 mg Folic acid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 . 5 mg with other factors of vitamin B complex present in the liver - stomach concentrate .
Inactive ingredients : Citric acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , ethylcellulose , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red # 28 , gelatin , lecithin , magnesium stearate , pharmaceutical glaze , silicon dioxide , simethicone , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbic acid , starch , and titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Vitamin B12 with Intrinsic Factor : when secretion of intrinsic factor in gastric juice is inadequate or absent ( e . g . , Addisonian pernicious anemia or after gastrectomy ) , vitamin B12 in physiologic doses is absorbed poorly , if at all .
The resulting deficiency of vitamin B12 leads to the clinical manifestations of pernicious anemia .
Similar megaloblastic anemias may develop in fish tapeworm ( Diphyllobothrium latum ) infection or after a surgically created small bowel blind loop ; in these situations , treatment requires freeing the host of the parasites or bacteria that appear to compete for the available vitamin B12 .
Strict vegetarianism and malabsorption syndromes may also lead to vitamin B12 deficiency .
In the latter case , parenteral therapy or oral therapy with so - called massive doses of vitamin B12 may be necessary for adequate treatment of the patient .
Potency of intrinsic factor concentrates is determined physiologically , i . e . , by their use in patients with pernicious anemia .
The liver - stomach concetrate with intrinsic factor and the vitamin B12 contained in two TRICON ™ Capsules provide 1 ½ times the minimum amount of therapeutic agent that , when given daily in an uncomplicated case of pernicious anemia , will produce a satisfactory response and relief of anemia and symptoms .
Concentrates of intrinsic factor derived from hog gastric , pyloric , and duodenal mucosa have been used successfully in patients who lack intrinsic factor .
Folic Acid : Folic acid deficiency is the immediate cause of most , if not all , cases of nutritional megaloblastic anemia and of the megaloblastic anemias of pregnancy and infancy ; usually , it is also at least partially responsible for the megaloblastic anemias of malabsorption syndromes , e . g . , tropical and nontropical sprue .
It is apparent that in vitamin B12 deficiency ( e . g . , pernicious anemia ) lack of this vitamin results in impaired utilization of folic acid .
There are other evidences of the close folic acid - vitamin B12 interrelationship : ( 1 ) B12 influences the storage , absorption , and utilization of folic acid , and ( 2 ) as a deficiency of B12 progresses , the requirement for folic acid increases .
However , folic acid does not change the requirements for vitamin B12 .
Iron : A very common anemia is that due to iron deficiency .
In most cases , the response to iron salts is prompt , safe , and predictable .
Within limits , the response is quicker and more certain to large doses of iron than to small doses .
Each TRICON ™ ( hematinic concentrate with intrinsic factor ) Capsule furnishes 110 mg of elemental iron ( as ferrous fumarate ) to provide a maximum response .
Ascorbic Acid : Vitamin C plays a role in anemia therapy .
It augments the conversion of folic acid to its active form , folinic acid .
In addition , ascorbic acid promotes the reduction of ferric iron in food to the more readily absorbed ferrous form .
Severe and prolonged vitamin C deficiency is associated with an anemia that is usually hypochromic but occasionally megaloblastic in type .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TRICON ™ is a multifactor preparation effective in the treatment of anemias that respond to oral hematinics , including pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias and also irondeficiency anemia .
Therapeutic quantities of hematopoietic factors that are known to be important are present in the recommended daily dose .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hemochromatosis and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General Anemia is a manifestation that requires appropriate investigation to determine its cause or causes .
Folic acid alone is unwarranted in the treatment of pure vitamin B12 deficiency states , such as pernicious anemia .
Folic acid may obscure pernicious anemia in that the blood picture may revert to normal while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
As with all preparations containing intrinsic factor , resistance may develop in some cases of pernicious anemia to the potentiation of absorption of physiologic doses of vitamin B12 .
If resistance occurs , parenteral therapy or oral therapy with so - called massive doses of vitamin B12 may be necessary for adequate treatment of the patient .
No single regimen fits all cases , and the status of the patient observed in follow - up is the final criterion for adequacy of therapy .
Periodic clinical and laboratory studies are considered essential and are recommended .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with TRICON ™ Capsules .
It is also not known whether TRICON ™ Capsules can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
TRICON ™ Capsules should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when TRICON ™ is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 10 have not been established .
Geriatric Use Geriatric Use : Clinical studies on this product have not been performed in sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Rarely , iron in therapeutic doses produces gastrointestinal reactions , such as diarrhea or constipation .
Reducing the dose and administering it with meals will minimize these effects in the iron - sensitive patient .
In extremely rare instances , skin rash suggesting allergy has been noted following the oral administration of liver - stomach material .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms : Those of iron intoxication , which may include pallor and cyanosis , vomiting , hematemesis , diarrhea , melena , shock , drowsiness , and coma .
Treatment : For specific therapy , exchange transfusion and chelating agents .
For general management , gastric and rectal lavage with sodium bicarbonate solution or milk , administration of intravenous fluids and electrolytes , and use of oxygen .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One capsule twice a day .
( Two capsules daily produce a standard response in the average uncomplicated case of pernicious anemia . )
HOW SUPPLIED TRICON ™ Capsules are opaque brown NDC 63044 - 0635 - 10 Unit Dose Packs containing 10 capsules per card .
100 capsules .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Manufactured For Nnodum Pharmaceuticals by Contract Pharmacal Corporation 135 Adams Avenue Hauppauge , New York 11788 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 63044 - 635 - 01 Tricon Capsules 100 Capsules Manufactured for Nnodum Pharmaceuticals Corp .
483 Northland Blvd . , Cincinnati , OH 45240 [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ]
