Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Naftin ® Cream , 1 % and Naftin ® Gel , 1 % contain the synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent naftifine hydrochloride .
Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % are for topical use only .
CHEMICAL NAME ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
Naftifine hydrochloride has an empirical formula of C21H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains Active Ingredient : Naftifine hydrochloride .......... 1 % .
Inactive Ingredients : Naftin ® Cream , 1 % contains benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , and stearyl alcohol .
Hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH . Naftin ® Gel , 1 % contains polysorbate 80 , carbomer 934 P , diisopropanolamine , edetate disodium , alcohol ( 52 % v / v ) , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naftifine Hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown .
Naftifine hydrochloride has been shown to exhibit fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of organisms , including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , and microsporum gypseum , and fungistatic activity against Candida species , including Candida albicans .
Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % have only been shown to be clinically effective against the disease entities listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Following a single topical application of 1 % of naftifine cream to the skin of healthy subjects , systemic absorption of naftifine was approximately 6 % of the applied dose .
Following single topical applications of 3 H - labeled naftifine gel 1 % to the skin of healthy subjects , up to 4 . 2 % of the applied dose was absorbed .
Naftifine and / or its metabolites are excreted via the urine and feces with a half - life of approximately two to three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftin ® Cream , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans [ 1 ] , Epidermophyton floccosum null .
[ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of their components .
WARNINGS Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % are for topical use only and not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % , are for external use only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftin ® Cream or Gel , 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Information for patients The patient should be told to : • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Keep Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % away from the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Naftin ® Cream and Gel , 1 % have not been performed .
In vitro and animal studies have not demonstrated any mutagenic effect or effect on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits ( via oral administration ) at doses 150 times or more than the topical human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naftifine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Naftin ® Cream or Gel , 1 % are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Naftin ® Cream , 1 % , the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning / stinging ( 6 % ) , dryness ( 3 % ) , erythema ( 2 % ) , itching ( 2 % ) , local irritation ( 2 % ) .
During clinical trials with Naftin ® Gel , 1 % .
the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning Istinging ( 5 . 0 % ) , itching ( 1 . 0 % ) , erythema ( 0 . 5 % ) , rash ( 0 . 5 % ) , skin tenderness ( 0 . 5 % ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A sufficient quantity of Naftin ® Cream , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas once a day .
A sufficient quantity of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
The hands should be washed after application .
If no clinical improvement is seen after four weeks of treatment with Naftin ® Cream or Gel , 1 % , the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED Naftin ® ( naftifine hydrochloride ) Cream .
1 % is supplied in collapsible tubes in the following sizes : • 60 g – NDC 0259 - 4126 - 60 • 90 g – NDC 0259 - 4126 - 90 Naftin ® ( naftifine hydrochloride ) Gel , 1 % is supplied in collapsible tubes in the following sizes : • 40 g – NDC 0259 - 4770 - 40 • 60 g – NDC 0259 - 4770 - 60 • 90 g – NDC 0259 - 4770 - 90 Note : Store Naftin ® Cream , 1 % below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Store Naftin ® Gel , 1 % at room temperature .
Manufactured for Merz Pharmaceuticals , Greensboro , NC 27410 © 2011 Merz Pharmaceuticals Rev 4 / 11 5011418 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 g Tube Carton NDC 0259 - 4126 - 90 NAFTIN ® 90 g cream NAFTIFINE HCl 1 % CREAM Rx Only MERZ ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
