DESCRIPTION SULFAMYLON Cream is a soft , white , nonstaining , water - miscible , anti - infective cream for topical administration to burn wounds .
SULFAMYLON Cream spreads easily , and can be washed off readily with water .
It has a slight acetic odor .
Each gram of SULFAMYLON Cream contains mafenide acetate equivalent to 85 mg of the base .
The cream vehicle consists of cetyl alcohol , steryl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polyoxyl 8 stearate , glycerin , and water , with methylparaben , propylparaben , sodium metabisulfite , and edetate disodium as preservatives .
Chemically , mafenide acetate is α - Amino - ρ - toluenesulfonamide monoacetate and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SULFAMYLON Cream , applied topically produces a marked reduction in the bacterial population present in the avascular tissues of second - and third - degree burns .
Reduction in bacterial growth after application of SULFAMYLON Cream has also been reported to permit spontaneous healing of deep partial - thickness burns , and thus prevent conversion of burn wounds from partial - thickness to full - thickness .
It should be noted , however , that delayed eschar separation has occurred in some cases .
Absorption and Metabolism Applied topically , SULFAMYLON Cream diffuses through devascularized areas , is absorbed , and rapidly converted to a metabolite ( ρ - carboxybenzenesulfonamide ) which is cleared through the kidneys .
SULFAMYLON is active in the presence of pus and serum , and its activity is not altered by changes in the acidity of the environment .
Antibacterial Activity SULFAMYLON exerts bacteriostatic action against many gram - negative and gram - positive organisms , including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and certain strains of anaerobes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE SULFAMYLON Cream is a topical agent indicated for adjunctive therapy of patients with second - and third - degree burns .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SULFAMYLON is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to it .
It is not known whether there is cross sensitivity to other sulfonamides .
WARNINGS Fatal hemolytic anemia with disseminated intravascular coagulation , presumably related to a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , has been reported following therapy with SULFAMYLON Cream .
Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS SULFAMYLON and its metabolite , ρ - carboxybenzenesulfonamide , inhibit carbonic anhydrase , which may result in metabolic acidosis , usually compensated by hyperventilation .
In the presence of impaired renal function , high blood levels of SULFAMYLON and its metabolite may exaggerate the carbonic anhydrase inhibition .
Therefore , close monitoring of acid - base balance is necessary , particularly in patients with extensive second - degree or partial - thickness burns and in those with pulmonary or renal dysfunction .
Some burn patients treated with SULFAMYLON Cream have also been reported to manifest an unexplained syndrome of marked hyperventilation with resulting respiratory alkalosis ( slightly alkaline blood pH , low arterial pCO2 , and decreased total CO2 ) ; change in arterial pO2 is variable .
The etiology and significance of these findings are unknown .
Mafenide acetate cream should be used with caution in burn patients with acute renal failure .
SULFAMYLON Cream should be administered with caution to patients with history of hypersensitivity to mafenide .
It is not known whether there is cross sensitivity to other sulfonamides .
Fungal colonization in and below eschar may occur concomitantly with reduction of bacterial growth in the burn wound .
However , fungal dissemination through the infected burn wound is rare .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the drug ’ s potential in these areas .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with SULFAMYLON .
It is also not known whether SULFAMYLON can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Therefore , the preparation is not recommended for the treatment of a women of childbearing potential , unless the burned area covers more than 20 % of the total body surface , or the need for the therapeutic benefit of SULFAMYLON Cream is , in the physician ’ s judgment , greater than the possible risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether mafenide acetate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reaction in nursing infants from SULFAMYLON , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Same as for adults .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS It is frequently difficult to distinguish between an adverse reaction to SULFAMYLON Cream and the effect of a severe burn .
A single case of bone marrow depression and a single case of acute attack of porphyria have been reported following therapy with SULFAMYLON Cream .
Fatal hemolytic anemia with disseminated intravascular coagulation , presumably related to a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , has been reported following therapy with SULFAMYLON Cream .
Dermatologic : The most frequently reported reaction was pain on application or a burning sensation .
Rare occurrences are excoriation of new skin and bleeding of skin .
Allergic : Rash itching , facial edema , swelling , hive , blisters , erythema , and eosinophilia .
Respiratory : Tachypnea or hyperventilation , decrease in arterial pCO2 .
Metabolic : Acidosis , increase in serum chloride .
Accidental ingestion of SULFAMYLON Cream has been reported to cause diarrhea .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rising Pharma Holdings , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 874 - 7464 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prompt institution of appropriate measures for controlling shock and pain is of prime importance .
The burn wounds are then cleansed and debrided , and SULFAMYLON Cream is applied with a sterile gloved hand .
Satisfactory results can be achieved with application of the cream once or twice daily , to a thickness of approximately 1 / 16 inch ; thicker application is not recommended .
The burned areas should be covered with SULFAMYLON Cream at all times .
Therefore , whenever necessary , the cream should be reapplied to any areas from which it has been removed ( e . g . , by patient activity ) .
The routine of administration can be accomplished in minimal time , since dressings usually are not required , if individual patient demands make them necessary , however , only a thin layer of dressings should be used .
When feasible , the patient should be bathed daily to aid in debridement .
A whirlpool bath is particularly helpful , but the patient may be bathed in bed or in a shower .
The duration of therapy with SULFAMYLON Cream depends on each patient ’ s requirements .
Treatment is usually continued until healing is progressing well or until the burn site is ready for grafting .
SULFAMYLON Cream should not be withdrawn from the therapeutic regimen while there is the possibility of infection .
However , if allergic manifestations occur during treatment with SULFAMYLON Cream , discontinuation of treatment should be considered .
If acidosis occurs and becomes difficult to control , particularly in patients with pulmonary dysfunction , discontinuing therapy SULFAMYLON Cream for 24 to 48 hours while continuing fluid therapy may aid in restoring acid - base balance .
HOW SUPPLIED 16 oz .
Plastic Jar ( 453 . 6 g ) - NDC 16571 - 723 - 48 4 oz .
Tube ( 113 . 4 g ) - NDC 16571 - 723 - 12 2 oz .
Tube ( 56 . 7 g ) - NDC 16571 - 723 - 60 Avoid exposure to excessive heat ( temperature above 104 ° F or 40 ° C ) .
For External Use Only .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only Manufactured for : Rising Pharma Holdings , Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Revised : 08 / 2020 PIR72348 - 00 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 16571 - 723 - 60 Rising ® SULFAMYLON ® Cream ( mafenide acetate cream , USP ) Rx only 2 oz .
( 56 . 7 g ) For Topical Use Only Each gram contains mafenide acetate equivalent to 85 mg base in a water - miscible cream of cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polyoxyl 8 stearate , glycerin , and water , with methylparaben , propylparaben , sodium metabisulfite , and edetate disodium as preservatives .
For dosage and administration , read accompanying package insert .
Avoid exposure to excessive heat ( temperatures above 104 ° F or 40 ° C ) .
For external use only .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
