DESCRIPTION PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing olopatadine for topical administration to the eyes .
Olopatadine hydrochloride is a white , crystalline , water - soluble powder with a molecular weight of 373 . 88 and a molecular formula of C21H23NO3 · HCl .
The chemical structure is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 11 - [ ( Z ) - 3 - ( Dimethylamino ) propylidene ] - 6 - 11 - dihydrodibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - 2 - acetic acid , hydrochloride Each mL of PATADAY ™ solution contains : Active : 2 . 22 mg olopatadine hydrochloride equivalent to 2 mg olopatadine .
Inactives : povidone ; dibasic sodium phosphate ; sodium chloride ; edetate disodium ; benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ( preservative ) hydrochloric acid / sodium hydroxide ( adjust pH ) ; and purified water .
It has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Olopatadine is a relatively selective histamine H1 antagonist and an inhibitor of the release of histamine from the mast cells .
Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated .
Olopatadine is devoid of effects on alpha - adrenergic , dopaminergic , and muscarinic type 1 and 2 receptors .
Systemic bioavailability data upon topical ocular administration of PATADAY ™ solution are not available .
Following topical ocular administration of olopatadine 0 . 15 % ophthalmic solution in man , olopatadine was shown to have a low systemic exposure .
Two studies in normal volunteers ( totaling 24 subjects ) dosed bilaterally with olopatadine 0 . 15 % ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally below the quantitation limit of the assay ( < 0 . 5 ng / mL ) .
Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged from 0 . 5 to 1 . 3 ng / mL .
The elimination half - life in plasma following oral dosing was 8 to 12 hours , and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion .
Approximately 60 - 70 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as parent drug .
Two metabolites , the mono - desmethyl and the N - oxide , were detected at low concentrations in the urine .
CLINICAL STUDIES Results from clinical studies of up to 12 weeks duration demonstrate that PATADAY ™ solution when dosed once a day is effective in the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PATADAY ™ solution is indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any components of this product .
WARNINGS For topical ocular use only .
Not for injection or oral use .
PRECAUTIONS Information for PatientsAs with any eye drop , to prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation .
The preservative in PATADAY ™ solution , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red , should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % before they insert their contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityOlopatadine administered orally was not carcinogenic in mice and rats in doses up to 500 mg / kg / day and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Based on a 40 µL drop size and a 50 kg person , these doses were approximately 150 , 000 and 50 , 000 times higher than the maximum recommended ocular human dose ( MROHD ) .
No mutagenic potential was observed when olopatadine was tested in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test , an in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration assay or an in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Olopatadine administered to male and female rats at oral doses of approximately 100 , 000 times MROHD level resulted in a slight decrease in the fertility index and reduced implantation rate ; no effects on reproductive function were observed at doses of approximately 15 , 000 times the MROHD level .
PregnancyTeratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category COlopatadine was found not to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
However , rats treated at 600 mg / kg / day , or 150 , 000 times the MROHD and rabbits treated at 400 mg / kg / day , or approximately 100 , 000 times the MROHD , during organogenesis showed a decrease in live fetuses .
In addition , rats treated with 600 mg / kg / day of olopatadine during organogenesis showed a decrease in fetal weight .
Further , rats treated with 600 mg / kg / day of olopatadine during late gestation through the lactation period showed a decrease in neonatal survival and body weight .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human responses , this drug should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Nursing MothersOlopatadine has been identified in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration .
It is not known whether topical ocular administration could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in the human breast milk .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
Geriatric UseNo overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms similar to cold syndrome and pharyngitis were reported at an incidence of approximately 10 % .
The following adverse experiences have been reported in 5 % or less of patients : Ocular : blurred vision , burning or stinging , conjunctivitis , dry eye , foreign body sensation , hyperemia , hypersensitivity , keratitis , lid edema , pain and ocular pruritus .
Non - ocular : asthenia , back pain , flu syndrome , headache , increased cough , infection , nausea , rhinitis , sinusitis and taste perversion .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye once a day .
HOW SUPPLIED PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % is supplied in a white , oval , low density polyethylene DROP - TAINER ® dispenser with a natural low density polyethylene dispensing plug and a white polypropylene cap .
Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink band around the closure and neck area of the package .
NDC 54868 - 6222 - 0 2 . 5 mL fill in 4 mL oval bottle StorageStore at 2 oC to 25 oC ( 36 oF to 77 oF ) U . S . Patents Nos . 4 , 871 , 865 ; 4 , 923 , 892 ; 5 , 116 , 863 ; 5 , 641 , 805 ; 6 , 995 , 186 Rx Only © 2006 Alcon , Inc .
Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PATADAY ™ ( olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 2 % 2 . 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
