[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION TENORMIN ® ( atenolol ) , a synthetic , beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) adrenoreceptor blocking agent , may be chemically described as benzeneacetamide , 4 - [ 2 ' - hydroxy - 3 ' - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] propoxy ] - .
The molecular and structural formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atenolol ( free base ) has a molecular weight of 266 .
It is a relatively polar hydrophilic compound with a water solubility of 26 . 5 mg / mL at 37 ° C and a log partition coefficient ( octanol / water ) of 0 . 23 .
It is freely soluble in 1 N HCl ( 300 mg / mL at 25 ° C ) and less soluble in chloroform ( 3 mg / mL at 25 ° C ) .
TENORMIN is available as 25 mg , 50 mg and 100 mg tablets for oral administration .
Inactive Ingredients : Magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY TENORMIN is a beta1 - selective ( cardioselective ) beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent without membrane stabilizing or intrinsic sympathomimetic ( partial agonist ) activities .
This preferential effect is not absolute , however , and at higher doses , TENORMIN inhibits beta2 - adrenoreceptors , chiefly located in the bronchial and vascular musculature .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism In man , absorption of an oral dose is rapid and consistent but incomplete .
Approximately 50 % of an oral dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , the remainder being excreted unchanged in the feces .
Peak blood levels are reached between two ( 2 ) and four ( 4 ) hours after ingestion .
Unlike propranolol or metoprolol , but like nadolol , TENORMIN undergoes little or no metabolism by the liver , and the absorbed portion is eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Over 85 % of an intravenous dose is excreted in urine within 24 hours compared with approximately 50 % for an oral dose .
TENORMIN also differs from propranolol in that only a small amount ( 6 % to 16 % ) is bound to proteins in the plasma .
This kinetic profile results in relatively consistent plasma drug levels with about a 4 - fold interpatient variation .
The elimination half - life of oral TENORMIN is approximately 6 to 7 hours , and there is no alteration of the kinetic profile of the drug by chronic administration .
Following intravenous administration , peak plasma levels are reached within 5 minutes .
Declines from peak levels are rapid ( 5 - to 10 - fold ) during the first 7 hours ; thereafter , plasma levels decay with a half - life similar to that of orally administered drug .
Following oral doses of 50 mg or 100 mg , both beta - blocking and antihypertensive effects persist for at least 24 hours .
When renal function is impaired , elimination of TENORMIN is closely related to the glomerular filtration rate ; significant accumulation occurs when the creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Pharmacodynamics In standard animal or human pharmacological tests , beta - adrenoreceptor blocking activity of TENORMIN has been demonstrated by : ( 1 ) reduction in resting and exercise heart rate and cardiac output , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest and on exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction in reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
A significant beta - blocking effect of TENORMIN , as measured by reduction of exercise tachycardia , is apparent within one hour following oral administration of a single dose .
This effect is maximal at about 2 to 4 hours , and persists for at least 24 hours .
Maximum reduction in exercise tachycardia occurs within 5 minutes of an intravenous dose .
For both orally and intravenously administered drug , the duration of action is dose related and also bears a linear relationship to the logarithm of plasma TENORMIN concentration .
The effect on exercise tachycardia of a single 10 mg intravenous dose is largely dissipated by 12 hours , whereas beta - blocking activity of single oral doses of 50 mg and 100 mg is still evident beyond 24 hours following administration .
However , as has been shown for all beta - blocking agents , the antihypertensive effect does not appear to be related to plasma level .
In normal subjects , the beta1 selectivity of TENORMIN has been shown by its reduced ability to reverse the beta2 - mediated vasodilating effect of isoproterenol as compared to equivalent beta - blocking doses of propranolol .
In asthmatic patients , a dose of TENORMIN producing a greater effect on resting heart rate than propranolol resulted in much less increase in airway resistance .
In a placebo controlled comparison of approximately equipotent oral doses of several beta - blockers , TENORMIN produced a significantly smaller decrease of FEV1 than nonselective beta - blockers such as propranolol and , unlike those agents , did not inhibit bronchodilation in response to isoproterenol .
Consistent with its negative chronotropic effect due to beta blockade of the SA node , TENORMIN increases sinus cycle length and sinus node recovery time .
Conduction in the AV node is also prolonged .
TENORMIN is devoid of membrane stabilizing activity , and increasing the dose well beyond that producing beta blockade does not further depress myocardial contractility .
Several studies have demonstrated a moderate ( approximately 10 % ) increase in stroke volume at rest and during exercise .
In controlled clinical trials , TENORMIN , given as a single daily oral dose , was an effective antihypertensive agent providing 24 - hour reduction of blood pressure .
TENORMIN has been studied in combination with thiazide type diuretics , and the blood pressure effects of the combination are approximately additive .
TENORMIN is also compatible with methyldopa , hydralazine , and prazosin , each combination resulting in a larger fall in blood pressure than with the single agents .
The dose range of TENORMIN is narrow and increasing the dose beyond 100 mg once daily is not associated with increased antihypertensive effect .
The mechanisms of the antihypertensive effects of beta - blocking agents have not been established .
Several possible mechanisms have been proposed and include : ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( especially cardiac ) adrenergic neuron sites , leading to decreased cardiac output , ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced sympathetic outflow to the periphery , and ( 3 ) suppression of renin activity .
The results from long - term studies have not shown any diminution of the antihypertensive efficacy of TENORMIN with prolonged use .
By blocking the positive chronotropic and inotropic effects of catecholamines and by decreasing blood pressure , atenolol generally reduces the oxygen requirements of the heart at any given level of effort , making it useful for many patients in the long - term management of angina pectoris .
On the other hand , atenolol can increase oxygen requirements by increasing left ventricular fiber length and end diastolic pressure , particularly in patients with heart failure .
In a multicenter clinical trial ( ISIS - 1 ) conducted in 16 , 027 patients with suspected myocardial infarction , patients presenting within 12 hours ( mean = 5 hours ) after the onset of pain were randomized to either conventional therapy plus TENORMIN ( n = 8 , 037 ) , or conventional therapy alone ( n = 7 , 990 ) .
Patients with a heart rate of < 50 bpm or systolic blood pressure < 100 mm Hg , or with other contraindications to beta blockade were excluded .
Thirty - eight percent of each group were treated within 4 hours of onset of pain .
The mean time from onset of pain to entry was 5 . 0 ± 2 . 7 hours in both groups .
Patients in the TENORMIN group were to receive TENORMIN I . V . Injection 5 mg to 10 mg given over 5 minutes plus TENORMIN Tablets 50 mg every 12 hours orally on the first study day ( the first oral dose administered about 15 minutes after the I . V . dose ) followed by either TENORMIN Tablets 100 mg once daily or TENORMIN Tablets 50 mg twice daily on days 2 to 7 .
The groups were similar in demographic and medical history characteristics and in electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial infarction , bundle branch block , and first degree atrioventricular block at entry .
During the treatment period ( days 0 to 7 ) , the vascular mortality rates were 3 . 89 % in the TENORMIN group ( 313 deaths ) and 4 . 57 % in the control group ( 365 deaths ) .
This absolute difference in rates , 0 . 68 % , is statistically significant at the P < 0 . 05 level .
The absolute difference translates into a proportional reduction of 15 % ( 3 . 89 - 4 . 57 / 4 . 57 = - 0 . 15 ) .
The 95 % confidence limits are 1 % to 27 % .
Most of the difference was attributed to mortality in days 0 to 1 ( TENORMIN - 121 deaths ; control - 171 deaths ) .
Despite the large size of the ISIS - 1 trial , it is not possible to identify clearly subgroups of patients most likely or least likely to benefit from early treatment with atenolol .
Good clinical judgment suggests , however , that patients who are dependent on sympathetic stimulation for maintenance of adequate cardiac output and blood pressure are not good candidates for beta blockade .
Indeed , the trial protocol reflected that judgment by excluding patients with blood pressure consistently below 100 mm Hg systolic .
The overall results of the study are compatible with the possibility that patients with borderline blood pressure ( less than 120 mm Hg systolic ) , especially if over 60 years of age , are less likely to benefit .
The mechanism through which atenolol improves survival in patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction is unknown , as is the case for other beta - blockers in the postinfarction setting .
Atenolol , in addition to its effects on survival , has shown other clinical benefits including reduced frequency of ventricular premature beats , reduced chest pain , and reduced enzyme elevation .
Atenolol Geriatric Pharmacology : In general , elderly patients present higher atenolol plasma levels with total clearance values about 50 % lower than younger subjects .
The half - life is markedly longer in the elderly compared to younger subjects .
The reduction in atenolol clearance follows the general trend that the elimination of renally excreted drugs is decreased with increasing age .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension TENORMIN is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including atenolol .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
TENORMIN may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis TENORMIN is indicated for the long - term management of patients with angina pectoris .
Acute Myocardial Infarction TENORMIN is indicated in the management of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality .
Treatment can be initiated as soon as the patient ’ s clinical condition allows .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS . )
In general , there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS - 1 trial ( blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg systolic , heart rate less than 50 bpm ) or have other reasons to avoid beta blockade .
As noted above , some subgroups ( e . g . , elderly patients with systolic blood pressure below 120 mm Hg ) seemed less likely to benefit .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TENORMIN is contraindicated in sinus bradycardia , heart block greater than first degree , cardiogenic shock , and overt cardiac failure .
( See WARNINGS . )
TENORMIN is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the atenolol or any of the drug product ’ s components .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure , and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
In patients with acute myocardial infarction , cardiac failure which is not promptly and effectively controlled by 80 mg of intravenous furosemide or equivalent therapy is a contraindication to beta - blocker treatment .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , patients should be treated appropriately according to currently recommended guidelines , and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment , TENORMIN should be withdrawn .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Cessation of Therapy with TENORMIN Patients with coronary artery disease , who are being treated with TENORMIN , should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy .
Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - blockers .
The last two complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris .
As with other beta - blockers , when discontinuation of TENORMIN is planned , the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum .
If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , it is recommended that TENORMIN be promptly reinstituted , at least temporarily .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue TENORMIN therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta - blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem .
Patients with pre - existing conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Because of its relative beta1 selectivity , however , TENORMIN may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 selectivity is not absolute , the lowest possible dose of TENORMIN should be used with therapy initiated at 50 mg and a beta2 - stimulating agent ( bronchodilator ) should be made available .
If dosage must be increased , dividing the dose should be considered in order to achieve lower peak blood levels .
Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery , however the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia TENORMIN should be used with caution in diabetic patients if a beta - blocking agent is required .
Beta - blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
At recommended doses TENORMIN does not potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and , unlike nonselective beta - blockers , does not delay recovery of blood glucose to normal levels .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm ; therefore , patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom TENORMIN therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Untreated Pheochromocytoma TENORMIN should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma .
Pregnancy and Fetal Injury Atenolol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Atenolol crosses the placental barrier and appears in cord blood .
Administration of atenolol , starting in the second trimester of pregnancy , has been associated with the birth of infants that are small for gestational age .
No studies have been performed on the use of atenolol in the first trimester and the possibility of fetal injury cannot be excluded .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving TENORMIN at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia .
Caution should be exercised when TENORMIN is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers . )
Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose - related increase in embryo / fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg / kg / day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose .
* Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits , the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg / kg / day or 12 . 5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose .
* PRECAUTIONS General Patients already on a beta - blocker must be evaluated carefully before TENORMIN is administered .
Initial and subsequent TENORMIN dosages can be adjusted downward depending on clinical observations including pulse and blood pressure .
TENORMIN may aggravate peripheral arterial circulatory disorders .
Impaired Renal Function The drug should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
* Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg / day in a 50 kg patient .
Drug Interactions Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents .
Patients treated with TENORMIN plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with TENORMIN ( see WARNINGS ) .
Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects .
Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia , asystole and heart failure when administered with beta - blockers .
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta - blockers .
Beta - blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
If the two drugs are coadministered , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine .
If replacing clonidine by beta - blocker therapy , the introduction of beta - blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped .
Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs , e . g . , indomethacin , may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta - blockers .
Information on concurrent usage of atenolol and aspirin is limited .
Data from several studies , i . e . , TIMI - II , ISIS - 2 , currently do not suggest any clinical interaction between aspirin and beta - blockers in the acute myocardial infarction setting .
While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two long - term ( maximum dosing duration of 18 or 24 months ) rat studies and one long - term ( maximum dosing duration of 18 months ) mouse study , each employing dose levels as high as 300 mg / kg / day or 150 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose , * did not indicate a carcinogenic potential of atenolol .
A third ( 24 month ) rat study , employing doses of 500 mg / kg / day and 1 , 500 mg / kg / day ( 250 and 750 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * ) resulted in increased incidences of benign adrenal medullary tumors in males and females , mammary fibroadenomas in females , and anterior pituitary adenomas and thyroid parafollicular cell carcinomas in males .
No evidence of a mutagenic potential of atenolol was uncovered in the dominant lethal test ( mouse ) , in vivo cytogenetics test ( Chinese hamster ) or Ames test ( S typhimurium ) .
Fertility of male or female rats ( evaluated at dose levels as high as 200 mg / kg / day or 100 times the maximum recommended human dose * ) was unaffected by atenolol administration .
Animal Toxicology Chronic studies employing oral atenolol performed in animals have revealed the occurrence of vacuolation of epithelial cells of Brunner ’ s glands in the duodenum of both male and female dogs at all tested dose levels of atenolol ( starting at 15 mg / kg / day or 7 . 5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose * ) and increased incidence of atrial degeneration of hearts of male rats at 300 but not 150 mg atenolol / kg / day ( 150 and 75 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose , * respectively ) .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D See WARNINGS - Pregnancy and Fetal Injury .
* Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg / day in a 50 kg patient .
Nursing Mothers Atenolol is excreted in human breast milk at a ratio of 1 . 5 to 6 . 8 when compared to the concentration in plasma .
Caution should be exercised when TENORMIN is administered to a nursing woman .
Clinically significant bradycardia has been reported in breastfed infants .
Premature infants , or infants with impaired renal function , may be more likely to develop adverse effects .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving TENORMIN at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia .
Caution should be exercised when TENORMIN is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding ( See WARNINGS , Pregnancy and Fetal Injury ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Hypertension and Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis : Clinical studies of TENORMIN did not include sufficient number of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Acute Myocardial Infarction : Of the 8 , 037 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomized to TENORMIN in the ISIS - 1 trial ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , 33 % ( 2 , 644 ) were 65 years of age and older .
It was not possible to identify significant differences in efficacy and safety between older and younger patients ; however , elderly patients with systolic blood pressure < 120 mmHg seemed less likely to benefit ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension or myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects have been mild and transient .
The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in hypertensive patients in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient ( US studies ) or elicited , e . g . , by checklist ( foreign studies ) .
The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both TENORMIN and placebo - treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered .
Where frequency of adverse effects of TENORMIN and placebo is similar , causal relationship to TENORMIN is uncertain .
Volunteered ( US Studies ) Total − Volunteered and Elicited ( Foreign + US Studies ) Atenolol ( n = 164 ) % Placebo ( n = 206 ) % Atenolol ( n = 399 ) % Placebo ( n = 407 ) % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0 . 5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0 . 5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM / NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0 . 5 2 0 . 2 Light - headedness 1 0 3 0 . 7 Tiredness 0 . 6 0 . 5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0 . 7 Drowsiness 0 . 6 0 2 0 . 5 Depression 0 . 6 0 . 5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY ( See WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0 . 6 1 6 4 Acute Myocardial Infarction In a series of investigations in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction , bradycardia and hypotension occurred more commonly , as expected for any beta - blocker , in atenolol - treated patients than in control patients .
However , these usually responded to atropine and / or to withholding further dosage of atenolol .
The incidence of heart failure was not increased by atenolol .
Inotropic agents were infrequently used .
The reported frequency of these and other events occurring during these investigations is given in the following table .
In a study of 477 patients , the following adverse events were reported during either intravenous and / or oral atenolol administration : Conventional Therapy Plus Atenolol ( n = 244 ) Conventional Therapy Alone ( n = 233 ) Bradycardia 43 ( 18 % ) 24 ( 10 % ) Hypotension 60 ( 25 % ) 34 ( 15 % ) Bronchospasm 3 ( 1 . 2 % ) 2 ( 0 . 9 % ) Heart Failure 46 ( 19 % ) 56 ( 24 % ) Heart Block 11 ( 4 . 5 % ) 10 ( 4 . 3 % ) BBB + Major Axis Deviation 16 ( 6 . 6 % ) 28 ( 12 % ) Supraventricular Tachycardia 28 ( 11 . 5 % ) 45 ( 19 % ) Atrial Fibrillation 12 ( 5 % ) 29 ( 11 % ) Atrial Flutter 4 ( 1 . 6 % ) 7 ( 3 % ) Ventricular Tachycardia 39 ( 16 % ) 52 ( 22 % ) Cardiac Reinfarction 0 ( 0 % ) 6 ( 2 . 6 % ) Total Cardiac Arrests 4 ( 1 . 6 % ) 16 ( 6 . 9 % ) Nonfatal Cardiac Arrests 4 ( 1 . 6 % ) 12 ( 5 . 1 % ) Deaths 7 ( 2 . 9 % ) 16 ( 6 . 9 % ) Cardiogenic Shock 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 4 ( 1 . 7 % ) Development of Ventricular Septal Defect 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 0 . 9 % ) Development of Mitral Regurgitation 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 0 . 9 % ) Renal Failure 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Pulmonary Emboli 3 ( 1 . 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) In the subsequent International Study of Infarct Survival ( ISIS - 1 ) including over 16 , 000 patients of whom 8 , 037 were randomized to receive TENORMIN treatment , the dosage of intravenous and subsequent oral TENORMIN was either discontinued or reduced for the following reasons : Reasons for Reduced Dosage I . V . Atenolol Reduced Dose ( < 5 mg ) [ 1 ] Oral Partial Dose Hypotension / Bradycardia 105 ( 1 . 3 % ) 1168 ( 14 . 5 % ) Cardiogenic Shock 4 ( . 04 % ) 35 ( . 44 % ) Reinfarction 0 ( 0 % ) 5 ( . 06 % ) Cardiac Arrest 5 ( . 06 % ) 28 ( . 34 % ) Heart Block ( > first degree ) 5 ( . 06 % ) 143 ( 1 . 7 % ) Cardiac Failure 1 ( . 01 % ) 233 ( 2 . 9 % ) Arrhythmias 3 ( . 04 % ) 22 ( . 27 % ) Bronchospasm 1 ( . 01 % ) 50 ( . 62 % ) [ 1 ] Full dosage was 10 mg and some patients received less than 10 mg but more than 5 mg .
During postmarketing experience with TENORMIN , the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug : elevated liver enzymes and / or bilirubin , hallucinations , headache , impotence , Peyronie ' s disease , postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope , psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis , psychoses , purpura , reversible alopecia , thrombocytopenia , visual disturbance , sick sinus syndrome , and dry mouth .
TENORMIN , like other beta - blockers , has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies ( ANA ) , lupus syndrome , and Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
POTENTIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS In addition , a variety of adverse effects have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents , and may be considered potential adverse effects of TENORMIN .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis .
Allergic : Fever , combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation of time and place ; short - term memory loss ; emotional lability with slightly clouded sensorium ; and , decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis .
Other : Erythematous rash .
Miscellaneous : There have been reports of skin rashes and / or dry eyes associated with the use of beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
The reported incidence is small , and in most cases , the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn .
Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable .
Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with TENORMIN .
Furthermore , a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to TENORMIN therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Almatica Pharma , LLC at 1 - 877 - 447 - 7979 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with TENORMIN has been reported with patients surviving acute doses as high as 5 g .
One death was reported in a man who may have taken as much as 10 g acutely .
The predominant symptoms reported following TENORMIN overdose are lethargy , disorder of respiratory drive , wheezing , sinus pause and bradycardia .
Additionally , common effects associated with overdosage of any beta - adrenergic blocking agent and which might also be expected in TENORMIN overdose are congestive heart failure , hypotension , bronchospasm and / or hypoglycemia .
Treatment of overdose should be directed to the removal of any unabsorbed drug by induced emesis , gastric lavage , or administration of activated charcoal .
TENORMIN can be removed from the general circulation by hemodialysis .
Other treatment modalities should be employed at the physician ' s discretion and may include : BRADYCARDIA : Atropine intravenously .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , give isoproterenol cautiously .
In refractory cases , a transvenous cardiac pacemaker may be indicated .
HEART BLOCK ( SECOND OR THIRD DEGREE ) : Isoproterenol or transvenous cardiac pacemaker .
CARDIAC FAILURE : Digitalize the patient and administer a diuretic .
Glucagon has been reported to be useful .
HYPOTENSION : Vasopressors such as dopamine or norepinephrine ( levarterenol ) .
Monitor blood pressure continuously .
BRONCHOSPASM : A beta2 stimulant such as isoproterenol or terbutaline and / or aminophylline .
HYPOGLYCEMIA : Intravenous glucose .
Based on the severity of symptoms , management may require intensive support care and facilities for applying cardiac and respiratory support .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dose of TENORMIN is 50 mg given as one tablet a day either alone or added to diuretic therapy .
The full effect of this dose will usually be seen within one to two weeks .
If an optimal response is not achieved , the dosage should be increased to TENORMIN 100 mg given as one tablet a day .
Increasing the dosage beyond 100 mg a day is unlikely to produce any further benefit .
TENORMIN may be used alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents including thiazide - type diuretics , hydralazine , prazosin , and alpha - methyldopa .
Angina Pectoris The initial dose of TENORMIN is 50 mg given as one tablet a day .
If an optimal response is not achieved within one week , the dosage should be increased to TENORMIN 100 mg given as one tablet a day .
Some patients may require a dosage of 200 mg once a day for optimal effect .
Twenty - four hour control with once daily dosing is achieved by giving doses larger than necessary to achieve an immediate maximum effect .
The maximum early effect on exercise tolerance occurs with doses of 50 mg to 100 mg , but at these doses the effect at 24 hours is attenuated , averaging about 50 % to 75 % of that observed with once a day oral doses of 200 mg .
Acute Myocardial Infarction In patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction , treatment with TENORMIN I . V . Injection should be initiated as soon as possible after the patient ' s arrival in the hospital and after eligibility is established .
Such treatment should be initiated in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patient ' s hemodynamic condition has stabilized .
Treatment should begin with the intravenous administration of 5 mg TENORMIN over 5 minutes followed by another 5 mg intravenous injection 10 minutes later .
TENORMIN I . V . Injection should be administered under carefully controlled conditions including monitoring of blood pressure , heart rate , and electrocardiogram .
Dilutions of TENORMIN I . V . Injection in Dextrose Injection USP , Sodium Chloride Injection USP , or Sodium Chloride and Dextrose Injection may be used .
These admixtures are stable for 48 hours if they are not used immediately .
In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose ( 10 mg ) , TENORMIN Tablets 50 mg should be initiated 10 minutes after the last intravenous dose followed by another 50 mg oral dose 12 hours later .
Thereafter , TENORMIN can be given orally either 100 mg once daily or 50 mg twice a day for a further 6 to 9 days or until discharge from the hospital .
If bradycardia or hypotension requiring treatment or any other untoward effects occur , TENORMIN should be discontinued .
( See full prescribing information prior to initiating therapy with TENORMIN Tablets . )
Data from other beta - blocker trials suggest that if there is any question concerning the use of I . V . beta - blocker or clinical estimate that there is a contraindication , the I . V . beta - blocker may be eliminated and patients fulfilling the safety criteria may be given TENORMIN Tablets 50 mg twice daily or 100 mg once a day for at least seven days ( if the I . V . dosing is excluded ) .
Although the demonstration of efficacy of TENORMIN is based entirely on data from the first seven postinfarction days , data from other beta - blocker trials suggest that treatment with beta - blockers that are effective in the postinfarction setting may be continued for one to three years if there are no contraindications .
TENORMIN is an additional treatment to standard coronary care unit therapy .
Elderly Patients or Patients with Renal Impairment TENORMIN is excreted by the kidneys ; consequently dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension or myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function .
Atenolol excretion would be expected to decrease with advancing age .
No significant accumulation of TENORMIN occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
Accumulation of atenolol and prolongation of its half - life were studied in subjects with creatinine clearance between 5 mL / min and 105 mL / min .
Peak plasma levels were significantly increased in subjects with creatinine clearances below 30 mL / min .
The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly , renally - impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes : Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half - Life ( h ) Maximum Dosage 15 - 35 16 - 27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 25 mg daily Some renally - impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of TENORMIN : 25 mg given as one tablet a day .
If this 25 mg dose is used , assessment of efficacy must be made carefully .
This should include measurement of blood pressure just prior to the next dose ( " trough " blood pressure ) to ensure that the treatment effect is present for a full 24 hours .
Although a similar dosage reduction may be considered for elderly and / or renally - impaired patients being treated for indications other than hypertension , data are not available for these patient populations .
Patients on hemodialysis should be given 25 mg or 50 mg after each dialysis ; this should be done under hospital supervision as marked falls in blood pressure can occur .
Cessation of Therapy in Patients with Angina Pectoris If withdrawal of TENORMIN therapy is planned , it should be achieved gradually and patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum .
HOW SUPPLIED TENORMIN Tablets Tablets of 25 mg atenolol are round , flat , uncoated white tablets identified with " T " debossed on one side and 107 debossed on the other side , supplied in bottles of 90 tablets ( NDC 52427 - 429 - 90 ) .
Tablets of 50 mg atenolol are round , flat , uncoated white tablets identified with " TENORMIN " debossed on one side and 105 debossed on the other side , bisected , supplied in bottles of 90 tablets ( NDC 52427 - 430 - 90 ) .
Tablets of 100 mg atenolol are round , flat , uncoated white tablets identified with " TENORMIN " debossed on one side and 101 debossed on the other side , supplied in bottles of 90 tablets ( NDC 52427 - 431 - 90 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Dispense in well - closed , light - resistant containers .
TENORMIN is a trademark of Alvogen AZ IP Holdings LLC .
Manufactured by : Norwich Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Norwich , NY 13815 USA Distributed by : Almatica Pharma LLC Morristown , NJ 07960 USA Product of India PI429 - 06 Revised : 06 / 2021 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 25 mg NDC 52427 - 429 - 90 Rx Only TENORMIN ® ( atenolol ) 25 mg tablets 90 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 50 mg NDC 52427 - 430 - 90 Rx Only TENORMIN ® ( atenolol ) 50 mg tablets 90 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - 100 mg NDC 52427 - 431 - 90 Rx Only TENORMIN ® ( atenolol ) 100 mg tablets 90 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
