Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• rinse right away with water if it gets in eyes • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth .
• avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration Stop use adn ask a doctor if skin irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times a day • because excessive drying og the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• if going outside , use a sunscreen .
Allow product to dry , then follow direction in the sunscreen labeling .
If sensitivity develops , discontinue use of both products and consult a doctor .
Other information • keep tightly closed • keep away from heat Inactive ingredients Water , Gluconolactone , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Glycerin , PEG - 40 Stearate , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Xanthan Gum , Phenoxyethanol , Ammonium Hydroxide , Isopropylparabem , Butylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Arginine , Titanium Dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
