Active Ingredient : DIMETHICONE Inactive Ingredients : Water , Diglycerin , Caprylic Capric Triglyceride , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Butylene Glycol , Cetearyl Olivate , Sorbitan Olivate , Propylene Glycol Dicaprylate Dicaprate , Morus Alba Root Extract , Lactoferrin , Glycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Beeswax , Glyceryl Stearate , Cetyl Alcohol , Limnanthes Alba ( Meadowfoam ) Seed Oil , Cyclomethicone , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Alpha - Bisabolol , Sodium Hyaluronate , Lauryl Laurate , Ubiquinone , Polysorbate 20 , Sodium Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Betula Alba Juice , Portulaca Oleracea extract , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extact , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Angelica Keiskei Leaf / Stem Extract , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Solanum Tuberosum ( Potato ) Pulp Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Vigna Radiata Seed Extract , Gingko Biloba Leaf Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Hematite Extract , Aluminum Silicate , Topaz , Amethyst Powder , Zeolite , Isononyl Isononanoate , Triethanolamine , Allantoin , Carbomer , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Disodium EDTA , Xanthan Gum , Methyl Paraben , Phenoxyethanol , Flavor Purpose : It prevents skin ' s spots , blemishes , freckles , and thus , it effects to make skin whitening and brightening .
Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of the reach of babies and children .
Indication and usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight .
Use it in the morning and evening , after using first Skin Softner and Essential Lotion .
Dosage and administration : Take up about 0 . 5 g - 1 . 0 g of it , and smooth over the entire face .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
