* Compared to Children ’ s Zyrtec ® active ingredient Drug Facts ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Cetirizine HCl 5 mg PURPOSE Antihistamine Uses relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or a allergic skin reaction from occurring .
WARNINGS Severe Allergy Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • trouble swallowing • swelling of tongue • trouble speaking • wheezing or problems breathing • dizziness or loss of consciousness • swelling in or around the mouth • drooling The symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injection for “ anaphylaxis ” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use • to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insect stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver or kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • hives that do not itch Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking tranquilizers or sedatives .
When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor • if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breastfeeding : • if breast - feeding : not recommended • if pregnant : ask a health professional before use KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help of contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • use only with enclosed dosing cup • find right dose on chart below • mL = milliliter adults and children 6 years and over 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) or 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) once daily depending upon severity of symptoms ; do not take more than 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) in 24 hours .
adults 56 years and over 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) once daily ; do not take more than 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) in 24 hours .
children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF NECKBAND IMPRINTED “ SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION ” IS BROKEN OR MISSSING .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sucrose , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Sodium Acetate , Glacial Acetic Acid , Artificial Grape Flavor , Purified Water .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 Monday through Friday 9 AM – 5 PM EST .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by McNeil - PPC , Inc . , distributor of Zyrtec ® .
Zyrtec ® is a registered trademark of UCB Pharma , S . A . Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Glasgow , KY 42141 Rev . 03 - 2015 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
