1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tralement ™ is indicated in adult and pediatric patients weighing at least 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Tralement is a combination of trace elements ( zinc sulfate , cupric sulfate , manganese sulfate and selenious acid ) indicated in adult and pediatric patients weighing at least 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single - dose vial .
Not for direct intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration and general dosing considerations .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) Recommended Dosage • Each mL of Tralement provides zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg .
( 2 . 5 ) • Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 50 kg : The recommended dosage of Tralement is 1 mL per day added to parenteral nutrition .
Tralement is not recommended for patients who may require a lower dosage of one or more of the individual trace elements .
( 2 . 5 ) • Pediatric Patients Weighing 10 kg to 49 kg : The recommended dosage of Tralement based on body weight is 0 . 2 mL to 0 . 8 mL per day added to parenteral nutrition .
Tralement does not provide the recommended daily dosage of zinc ( in heavier patients in some weight bands ) , copper or selenium .
Additional supplementation using single trace element products may be needed for these patients .
For complete dosing information see table in the full prescribing information .
( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) • Monitor trace element concentrations in blood during long - term administration of parenteral nutrition .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Information Tralement is supplied as a single - dose vial for admixture use only .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Tralement must be transferred to a separate parenteral nutrition container , diluted and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
The final parenteral nutrition solution is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
The choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • Tralement is not for direct intravenous infusion .
Prior to administration , Tralement must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
• Add Tralement to the parenteral nutrition solution in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients .
• Inspect the parenteral nutrition solution containing Tralement for particulate matter before admixing , after admixing , and prior to administration .
2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container • Inspect Tralement single - dose vial for particulate matter .
• Transfer Tralement to the parenteral nutrition container after the admixture of amino acids , dextrose , lipid emulsion ( if added ) , and electrolytes solutions is prepared .
• Because additives may be incompatible , evaluate all additions to the parenteral nutrition container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
For introducing additives to the parenteral nutrition container , use aseptic technique .
• An interaction may occur between cupric ion and ascorbic acid ; therefore , multivitamin additives should be added to the admixed parenteral nutrition solution shortly before infusion .
• Inspect the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Tralement to ensure that : o Precipitates have not formed during mixing or addition on additives .
o The emulsion has not separated , if lipid emulsion has been added .
Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
o Discard if any precipitates are observed .
Stability and Storage • Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
• Use parenteral nutrition solutions containing Tralement promptly after mixing .
Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration from 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) and limited to a period of no longer than 9 days .
After removal from refrigeration , use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours .
Discard any remaining admixture .
• Protect the parenteral nutrition solution from light .
2 . 4 Overview of Dosing • Prior to administration of parenteral nutrition solution containing Tralement , correct severe fluid , electrolyte , and acid - base disorders .
• The dosage of the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Tralement must be based on the concentrations of all components in the solution , the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral intake .
• For pediatric patients weighing 10 to 49 kg , Tralement does not provide the recommended daily dosage of zinc ( in heavier patients in some weight bands ) , copper or selenium .
Additional supplementation using single trace element products may be needed for these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
• Monitor fluid and electrolyte status during treatment use of Tralement and adjust the parenteral nutrition solution as needed 2 . 5 Recommended Dosage and Monitoring in Adult and Pediatric Patients Tralement is a fixed - combination product .
Each mL of Tralement provides zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg .
Tralement is recommended only for patients who require supplementation with all four of the individual trace elements ( i . e . , zinc , copper , manganese and selenium ) .
Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at least 50 kg : The recommended dosage of Tralement is 1 mL per day added to parenteral nutrition ( zinc 3 mg / copper 0 . 3 mg / manganese 55 mcg / selenium 60 mcg ) .
Tralement is not recommended for those patients who may require a lower dosage of one or more of the individual trace elements .
Pediatric Patients Weighing 10 kg to 49 kg : The recommended dosage of Tralement by volume to be added to parenteral nutrition is based on body weight and ranges from 0 . 2 mL to 0 . 8 mL per day as shown in Table 1 .
Body Weight Recommended Weight - Based Dosage of Tralement in Volume Amount of Trace Element Provided by the Corresponding Tralement Volume Zinc Copper Manganese Selenium 10 kg to 19 kg 0 . 2 mL 600 mcg 60 mcg 11 mcg 12 mcg 20 kg to 29 kg 0 . 4 mL 1 , 200 mcg 120 mcg 22 mcg 24 mcg 30 kg to 39 kg 0 . 6 mL 1 , 800 mcg 180 mcg 33 mcg 36 mcg 40 kg to 49 kg 0 . 8 mL 2 , 400 mcg 240 mcg 44 mcg 48 mcg Use Additional Supplementation with Tralement For pediatric patients weighing 10 kg to 49 kg , additional zinc ( in heavier patients in some weight bands ) , copper and selenium may be needed to meet the recommended daily dosage of these trace elements , shown below .
To determine the additional amount of supplementation that is needed , compare the calculated daily recommended dosage based on the body weight of the patient to the amount of each trace element provided by Tralement ( Table 1 ) and other dietary sources .
• Zinc : 50 mcg / kg / day ( up to 3 , 000 mcg / day ) • Copper : 20 mcg / kg / day ( up to 300 mcg / day ) • Selenium : 2 mcg / kg / day ( up to 60 mcg / day ) Do not supplement Tralement with additional manganese .
Accumulation of manganese in the brain can occur with long - term administration with higher than the recommended dosage of 1 mcg / kg / day ( up to 55 mcg / day ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( ] .
Monitoring • Monitor serum zinc , copper , and selenium concentrations and manganese whole blood concentrations during long - term administration of parenteral nutrition .
• Trace elements concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range .
The collection , processing , and storage of the blood samples should be performed according to the laboratory ’ s sample requirements for analysis .
o Zinc : In serum , the reported concentration range in healthy adults is 60 to 140 mcg / dL .
Zinc concentrations in hemolyzed samples may be falsely elevated due to release of zinc from erythrocytes .
o Copper : In serum , the reported concentration range in healthy adults is 70 to 175 mcg / dL ; consider obtaining concentrations of ceruloplasmin along with serum copper .
o Manganese : In whole blood , the reported concentration range in healthy adults is 4 to 16 mcg / L .
o Selenium : In serum , the reported concentration range in healthy adults is 7 to 19 mcg / dL .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 1 mL clear , colorless to slightly blue solution in a single - dose vial .
Each mL contains zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg .
Injection : 1 mL in a single - dose vial .
Each mL contains zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tralement is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to zinc or copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to zinc or copper ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates : If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or more must be infused through a central catheter .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Neurologic Toxicity with Manganese : Monitor for clinical signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity , whole blood manganese concentrations and liver function tests in patients receiving long - term Tralement .
Discontinue Tralement and consider brain magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) if toxicity suspected .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hepatic Accumulation of Copper and Manganese : Assess for development of hepatic or biliary dysfunction .
Monitor concentrations of copper and manganese in patients with cholestasis , biliary dysfunction or cirrhosis receiving Tralement long - term .
( 5 . 4 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : Increased risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 4 ) • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Monitor blood zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium concentrations , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count and coagulation parameters .
( 5 . 6 , 2 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions with Zinc and Copper : If reactions occur , discontinue Tralement and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
( 5 . 7 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact American Regent , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 734 - 9236 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
5 . 1 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates Pulmonary vascular precipitates causing pulmonary vascular emboli and pulmonary distress have been reported in patients receiving parenteral nutrition .
The cause of precipitate formation has not been determined in all cases ; however , in some fatal cases , pulmonary emboli occurred as a result of calcium phosphate precipitates .
Precipitation has occurred following passage through an in - line filter ; in vivo precipitate formation may also have occurred .
If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the parenteral nutrition infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
In addition to inspection of the solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] , the infusion set , and catheter should also periodically be checked for precipitates .
5 . 2 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Tralement must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
In addition , consider the osmolarity of the final parenteral nutrition solution in determining peripheral versus central administration .
Solution with an osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient solution into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 3 Neurologic Toxicity with Manganese Manganese accumulation in the basal ganglia has been reported in adult and pediatric patients on long - term parenteral nutrition receiving manganese at higher than recommended dosages and in association with cholestatic liver disease .
Some adult patients with brain MRI findings reportedly experienced neuropsychiatric symptoms , including changes in mood or memory , seizures and / or parkinsonian - like tremors , dysarthria , mask - face , and halting gait .
Some pediatric patients experienced dystonic movements or seizures .
Brain MRI findings and clinical symptoms have also been observed in patients who received manganese at or below the recommended dosage and with normal blood manganese concentrations .
Regression of symptoms and MRI findings have occurred over weeks to months following discontinuation of manganese in most patients but have not always completely resolved .
Monitor patients receiving long - term parenteral nutrition solutions containing Tralement for neurologic signs and symptoms and routinely monitor whole blood manganese concentrations and liver function tests .
In case of suspected manganese toxicity or new neuro - psychiatric manifestations , temporarily discontinue Tralement , check manganese whole blood concentrations , and consider brain MRI evaluation .
Monitor patients receiving Tralement for cholestasis or other biliary liver disease .
Consider individual trace element products as an alternative to Tralement in patients with hepatic and / or biliary dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hepatic Accumulation of Copper and Manganese Copper is primarily eliminated in the bile and excretion is decreased in patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis .
Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese have been reported in autopsies of patients receiving long - term parenteral nutrition containing copper and manganese at dosages higher than recommended .
Patients receiving parenteral nutrition with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis are at increased risk of manganese brain deposition and neurotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Administration of copper to patients with cholestasis , and / or cirrhosis may cause hepatic accumulation of copper .
Administration of copper to patients with Wilson disease , an inborn error of copper metabolism with defect in hepatocellular copper transport , may cause both increased hepatic accumulation of copper and aggravation of the underlying hepatocellular degeneration .
For patients with cholestasis , biliary dysfunction , or cirrhosis , monitor hepatic and biliary function during long - term administration of Tralement .
If a patient develops signs or symptoms of hepatic or biliary dysfunction during the use of Tralement , obtain serum concentrations of copper and ceruloplasmin as well as manganese whole blood concentrations .
Consider using individual trace element products in patients with hepatic and / or biliary dysfunction [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Aluminum Toxicity Tralement contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Preterm infants , including preterm neonates , are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants and premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration or lower daily amounts .
Exposure to aluminum from Tralement is not more than 0 . 1 mcg / kg / day .
When prescribing Tralement for use in parenteral nutrition containing other small volume parenteral products , the total daily patient exposure to aluminum from the admixture should be considered and maintained at no more than 5 mcg / kg / day [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Monitor blood zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium concentrations , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count , and coagulation parameters during use of parenteral nutrition containing Tralement [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity Reactions with Zinc and Copper Hypersensitivity reactions to subcutaneously administered zinc - containing insulin products and copper - containing intrauterine devices ( IUD ) were identified in postmarketing case reports .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur in patients receiving Tralement in parenteral nutrition , discontinue Tralement , and initiate appropriate medical treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Zinc For patients prescribed zinc - containing insulin products , reported reactions included injection site induration , erythema , pruritus , papular rash , generalized urticaria , facial swelling , and dyspnea .
Patients did not manifest symptoms after changing to zinc - free insulin or another insulin product with a reduced amount of zinc .
In some cases , allergy testing confirmed the allergy to the zinc component of the insulin product .
Copper For women with copper IUD implantation , reported reactions included diffuse eczematous dermatitis , maculopapular skin eruption , urticaria , and angioedema of the eyelids , face , and labia weeks or months after IUD insertion .
In most cases , the patch test for copper was positive , and the adverse reactions resolved after IUD removal .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions were identified in clinical studies or post - marketing reports .
Given that some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions with other components of parenteral nutrition solutions : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Adverse reactions with the use of trace elements administered parenterally or by other routes of administration : • Neurologic toxicity with manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions with zinc and copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] No adverse reactions related to zinc , copper , selenium , or manganese have been reported in patients receiving intravenously administered parenteral solutions containing these trace elements within the recommended dosage range .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 , or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Patients Weighing Less than 10 kg : Tralement is not approved for use in this subpopulation because the product does not provide an adequate dosage of zinc , copper , or selenium and exceeds the recommended dosage of manganese .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Administration of the recommended dose of Tralement in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Deficiency of trace elements may result in adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Tralement or with the individual trace elements .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo - Fetal Risk Deficiencies of trace elements , including zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium are associated with adverse pregnancy and fetal outcomes .
Pregnant women have an increased metabolic demand for trace elements .
Parenteral nutrition with Tralement should be considered if a pregnant woman ’ s nutritional requirements cannot be fulfilled by oral or enteral intake .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium are present in human milk .
Administration of the approved recommended dose of Tralement in parenteral nutrition is not expected to cause harm to a breastfed infant .
There is no information on the effects of zinc sulfate , cupric sulfate , manganese sulfate , or selenious acid on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Tralement and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Tralement or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Tralement is approved for use in pediatric patients weighing at least 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on published literature describing controlled studies of products containing zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Tralement is not approved for use in pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg because the product does not provide an adequate dosage of zinc , copper , or selenium to meet the needs of this subpopulation and exceeds the recommended dosage of manganese .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience has not identified a difference in requirements for zinc , copper , manganese , or selenium between elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Copper is primarily excreted in the bile .
Excretion is decreased in patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis .
Manganese is found , and presumed to be excreted , in bile [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese have been reported with long - term administration in parenteral nutrition at dosages higher than recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
For patients with cholestasis , biliary dysfunction , or cirrhosis , monitor hepatic and biliary function during long - term administration of Tralement .
If a patient develops signs or symptoms of hepatic or biliary dysfunction during use of Tralement , obtain serum concentrations of copper and ceruloplasmin as well as manganese whole blood concentrations .
Consider using individual trace element products in patients with hepatic and / or biliary dysfunction .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no information on overdos Management of overdosage is supportive care based on presenting signs and symptoms .
Obtain blood samples for laboratory testing of the individual trace elements and ceruloplasmin for copper .
Zinc Acute zinc toxicity was reported in an infant who received an inadvertent 1 , 000 - fold overdose of zinc in parenteral nutrition that led to cardiac failure and death .
Zinc toxicity in adult patients receiving 17 to 400 - fold the recommended dosage in parenteral nutrition for 2 . 5 to 60 days reported signs and symptoms including vomiting , diarrhea , hyperamylasemia , thrombocytopenia , and anemia .
The zinc serum concentration was 2 to 30 - fold the upper end of the reported range in healthy subjects in these cases .
Copper Acute copper toxicity was reported in patients with oral , intravenous , or subcutaneous administration .
Clinical manifestations included metallic taste , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and multi - organ failure involving kidney , liver , blood , and cardiovascular systems .
Chelating agents can be used for treatment of acute toxicity .
Long - term administration of parenteral copper above recommended dosage may result in significant accumulation of copper in the liver , brain , and other tissues with possible organ damage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Manganese Acute manganese toxicity was reported in adult patients following infusion of manganese more than 10 , 000 - fold the recommended dosage and after use of dialysis fluid contaminated with manganese .
Signs and symptoms included skin flushing , acute pancreatitis , elevated whole blood manganese concentrations , and MRI evidence of brain accumulation of manganese .
Chronic infusion and oral intake of manganese above recommended dosage have resulted in neuropsychiatric symptoms and MRI evidence of brain accumulation of manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Selenium Acute selenium toxicity was reported with oral overdosage of greater than 1 g / day .
Symptoms included nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal pain , garlic breath odor , and altered mental status .
Death from circulatory collapse was reported after oral ingestion of 5 to 10 g of selenium with blood concentrations ranging 10 to 50 - fold the upper end of the reported range in healthy subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Tralement ™ ( trace elements injection 4 * , USP ) is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , clear , and colorless to slightly blue solution , intended for use as a combination of four trace elements and an additive to intravenous solutions for parenteral nutrition .
It contains no preservative .
Each single - dose vial contains 1 mL .
* Each mL contains zinc 3 mg ( equivalent to zinc sulfate 7 . 41 mg ) , copper 0 . 3 mg ( equivalent to cupric sulfate 0 . 75 mg ) , manganese 55 mcg ( equivalent to manganese sulfate 151 mcg ) , selenium 60 mcg ( equivalent to selenious acid 98 mcg ) , and water for injection .
Sulfuric acid may be added to adjust pH between 1 . 5 and 3 . 5 .
Zinc sulfate exists as a heptahydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : ZnSO4 • 7H2O .
Molecular weight : 287 . 54 g / mol .
Cupric sulfate exists as a pentahydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : CuSO4 • 5H2O .
Molecular weight : 249 . 69 g / mol .
Manganese sulfate exists as a monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : MnSO4 • H2O .
Molecular weight : 169 . 02 g / mol .
The structural formula of selenious acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : H2SeO3 .
Molecular weight : 128 . 97 g / mol .
Tralement contains no more than 6 , 000 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zinc Zinc functions as a cofactor of various enzymes including DNA polymerases , RNA polymerases , alcohol dehydrogenase , and alkaline phosphatases .
Zinc is a coordinator of protein structural folding that interacts with a variety of proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids .
In addition , zinc is a catalyst of essential biochemical reactions , including activation of substrates of carbonic anhydrase in erythrocyte .
Copper Copper is a cofactor for many metalloenzymes acting as an oxidase to achieve reduction of molecular oxygen .
Examples of copper metalloenzymes include but are not limited to lysyl oxidase , monoamine oxidase , ferroxidase , cytochrome C oxidase , dopamine beta monooxygenase , tyrosinase , and superoxide dismutase .
\ Manganese Manganese is essential for the normal catalytic activity of several metalloenzymes including manganese superoxide dismutase , arginase , glutamine synthetase , phosphoenolpyruvate decarboxylase , and pyruvate carboxylase .
Manganese contributes to the normal function of several other enzyme families including the oxidoreductases , transferases , hydrolases , lyases , isomerases , and ligases .
Selenium Selenious acid is converted in vivo to hydrogen selenide via glutathione - involved electron reductions .
Hydrogen selenide acts as a selenium pool to form selenoproteins which include , but are not limited to , glutathione peroxidase , iodothyronine deiodinase , peroxidase , and thioredoxins .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The exposure - response relationship and the time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown for zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Zinc Over 85 % of total body zinc is found in skeletal muscle and bone .
In blood , zinc is mainly localized within erythrocytes .
Approximately 80 % of serum zinc is bound to albumin and the remainder to α - 2 - macroglobulin and amino acids .
In adults , zinc is primarily excreted via the gastrointestinal tract and eliminated in the feces .
A smaller amount of zinc is excreted via the kidneys in the urine .
Urinary zinc excretion rates in very low birth weight preterm infants are relatively high in the neonatal period , and they decline to a level on a body weight basis that is similar to that of normal adults by two months of age .
Copper In plasma , about 7 % of copper is bound to albumin and amino acids .
In the liver , about 93 % of copper is bound to ceruloplasmin and released to the serum .
Copper is excreted in bile and into the gastrointestinal tract where it is not reabsorbed .
Copper is also eliminated through the kidneys .
Manganese Manganese is widely distributed in body tissues including liver and specific brain regions such as the basal ganglia .
The concentrations of manganese are higher in erythrocytes compared to the plasma or serum concentrations .
In human plasma , manganese is bound to albumin and β1 - globulin .
Manganese is found in human bile suggesting biliary excretion .
Selenium In humans , 85 % of intravenous administered 75 Se was protein - bound within 4 to 6 hours and 95 % by 24 hours .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Tralement ( trace elements injection 4 * , USP ) is a clear , colorless to slightly blue solution supplied in 1 mL single - dose vials ( NDC 0517 - 9305 - 01 ) .
* Each mL of Tralement contains zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg .
It is packaged in trays containing 25 vials per tray ( NDC 0517 - 9305 - 25 ) .
Vial closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store admixed solution at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers , and home healthcare providers of the following risks of Tralement : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Neurologic toxicity with manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions with zinc and copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Manufactured by : AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN9305 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container Label ( 1 mL ) 0517 - 9305 - 01 Rx Only TralementTM ( Trace Elements Injection 4 * , USP ) * Each mL provides : zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 55 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg For intravenous use after dilution and admixing 1 mL Single - Dose Vial Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling ( 1 mL ) 0517 - 9305 - 25 Rx Only TralementTM ( Trace Elements Injection 4 * , USP ) * Each mL provides : zinc 3 mg , copper 0 . 3 mg , manganese 0 . 3 mcg , and selenium 60 mcg For intravenous use after dilution and admixing 25 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label ( 1 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
