Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Acetaminophen 162 . 5 mg Chlorpheniramine maleate 1 mg Purpose Pain reliever - fever reducer Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold , the flu , or hay fever : minor aches and pains headache sore throat sneezing runny nose itchy , watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily reduces fever Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if : adult takes more than 24 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount for this product child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Do not give to children under 6 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
for pain for more than 10 days ( for adults ) or 5 days ( for children ) for fever for more than 3 days Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage avoid alcoholic beverages may cause drowsiness ( alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect ) use caution when driving or operating machinery may cause excitability especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if sore throat is severe sore throat persists for more than 2 days sore throat is accompanied or followed by : fever headache rash nausea vomiting any of the following occurs ( these could be signs of a serious condition ) : pain or fever persists or gets worse or new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : 4 tablets every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 doses ( 24 tablets ) in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age : 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 5 doses ( 10 tablets ) in 24 hours , or as directed by a doctor children under 6 years : consult a doctor of age Other information keep tightly sealed store between 15ยบ to 30ยบ C ( 59ยบ to 86ยบ F ) Questions or Comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also use this number to report serious adverse events associated with the use of this product Inactive ingredients Scutellaria baicalensis root , platycodon grandiflorum leaf , arctium lappa fruit , mint , FDC blue no . 2 , FDC yellow no . 5 , FDC yellow no . 6 , titanium dioxide , soybean , forsythia suspensa fruit , lonicera japonica flower , hypromellose 2910 ( 15000 mpa . s ) , glycyrrhiza uralensis , notopterygium incisum root , phragmites australis root , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol 4000 , schizonepeta tenufolia spike YINCHIAO , NDC58975 - 022 - 01 , Acetaminophen - Pain Reliever - Fever Reducer , Chlorpheniramine Maleate - Antihistamine , See new warnings information , 120 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
