Contraindications ( 4 ) 10 / 2016 Warnings and Precautions , Supine Hypertension ( 5 . 1 ) 02 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Hyperpyrexia and Confusion ( 5 . 2 ) 10 / 2016 Warnings and Precautions , Allergic Reactions ( 5 . 4 ) 10 / 2016 WARNING : SUPINE HYPERTENSION Monitor supine blood pressure prior to and during treatment and more frequently when increasing doses .
Elevating the head of the bed lessens the risk of supine hypertension , and blood pressure should be measured in this position .
If supine hypertension cannot be managed by elevation of the head of the bed , reduce or discontinue droxidopa capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : SUPINE HYPERTENSION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Monitor supine blood pressure prior to and during treatment and more frequently when increasing doses .
Elevating the head of the bed lessens the risk of supine hypertension , and blood pressure should be measured in this position .
If supine hypertension cannot be managed by elevation of the head of the bed , reduce or discontinue Droxidopa capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Droxidopa capsules is indicated for the treatment of orthostatic dizziness , lightheadedness , or the “ feeling that you are about to black out ” in adult patients with symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic hypotension ( nOH ) caused by primary autonomic failure ( Parkinson ' s disease [ PD ] , multiple system atrophy , and pure autonomic failure ) , dopamine beta - hydroxylase deficiency , and non - diabetic autonomic neuropathy .
Effectiveness beyond 2 weeks of treatment has not been established .
The continued effectiveness of droxidopa capsules should be assessed periodically .
Droxidopa capsule is indicated for the treatment of orthostatic dizziness , light headedness , or the “ feeling that you are about to black out ” in adult patients with symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic hypotension ( nOH ) caused by primary autonomic failure ( Parkinson ' s disease [ PD ] , multiple system atrophy , and pure autonomic failure ) , dopamine beta - hydroxylase deficiency , and non - diabetic autonomic neuropathy .
Effectiveness beyond 2 weeks of treatment has not been established .
The continued effectiveness of Droxidopa capsules should be assessed periodically ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Starting dose is 100 mg three times during the day ( 2 . 1 ) • Titrate by 100 mg three times daily , up to a maximum dose of 600 mg three times daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Take consistently with or without food ( 2 . 1 ) • To reduce the potential for supine hypertension , elevate the head of the bed and give the last dose at least 3 hours prior to bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Take Droxidopa capsule whole ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information The recommended starting dose of droxidopa capsules is 100 mg , taken orally three times daily : upon arising in the morning , at midday , and in the late afternoon at least 3 hours prior to bedtime ( to reduce the potential for supine hypertension during sleep ) .
Administer droxidopa capsules consistently , either with food or without food .
Take droxidopa capsule whole .
Titrate to symptomatic response , in increments of 100 mg three times daily every 24 to 48 hours up to a maximum dose of 600 mg three times daily ( i . e . , a maximum total daily dose of 1 , 800 mg ) .
Monitor supine blood pressure prior to initiating droxidopa capsules and after increasing the dose .
Patients who miss a dose of droxidopa capsules should take their next scheduled dose .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Droxidopa capsules are available in 100 mg , 200 mg , and 300 mg strengths as specified below .
• 100 mg : Hard gelatin capsules with " DRO " on the white opaque body and " 100 " on the light blue to blue cap .
• 200 mg : Hard gelatin capsules with " DRO " on the white opaque body and " 200 " on the light yellow to yellow cap • 300 mg : Hard gelatin capsules with " DRO " on the white opaque body and " 300 " on the light green to green cap 100 mg , 200 mg , and 300 mg capsules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Droxidopa capsules is contraindicated in patients who have a history of hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
History of hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Droxidopa capsules may cause supine hypertension and may increase cardiovascular risk if supine hypertension is not well - managed ( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperpyrexia and confusion ( 5 . 2 ) • May exacerbate symptoms in patients with existing ischemic heart disease , arrhythmias , and congestive heart failure ( 5 . 3 ) • Allergic reactions ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Supine Hypertension Droxidopa capsules therapy may cause or exacerbate supine hypertension in patients with nOH .
Patients should be advised to elevate the head of the bed when resting or sleeping .
Monitor blood pressure , both in the supine position and in the recommended head - elevated sleeping position .
Reduce or discontinue droxidopa capsules if supine hypertension persists .
If supine hypertension is not well - managed , droxidopa capsules may increase the risk of cardiovascular events , particularly stroke .
5 . 2 Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Postmarketing cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) have been reported with droxidopa capsules use during postmarketing surveillance .
Observe patients carefully when the dosage of droxidopa capsules is changed or when concomitant levodopa is reduced abruptly or discontinued , especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics .
NMS is an uncommon but life - threatening syndrome characterized by fever or hyperthermia , muscle rigidity , involuntary movements , altered consciousness , and mental status changes .
The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients .
5 . 3 Ischemic Heart Disease , Arrhythmias , and Congestive Heart Failure Droxidopa capsules may exacerbate existing ischemic heart disease , arrhythmias , and congestive heart failure .
Careful consideration should be given to this potential risk prior to initiating therapy in patients with these conditions .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , bronchospasm , urticaria and rash have been reported in postmarketing experience .
Some of these reactions resulted in emergency treatment .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue the drug and initiate appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with droxidopa capsules are included in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label : • Supine Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hyperpyrexia and Confusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • May exacerbate existing ischemic heart disease , arrhythmias , and congestive heart failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % and ≥ 3 % compared to placebo ) are headache , dizziness , nausea , and hypertension ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety evaluation of droxidopa capsules is based on two placebo - controlled studies 1 to 2 weeks in duration ( Studies 301 and 302 ) , one 8 - week placebo - controlled study ( Study 306 ) , and two long - term , open - label extension studies ( Studies 303 and 304 ) .
In the placebo - controlled studies , a total of 485 patients with Parkinson ' s disease , multiple system atrophy , pure autonomic failure , dopamine beta - hydroxylase deficiency , or non - diabetic autonomic neuropathy were randomized and treated , 245 with droxidopa capsules and 240 with placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Placebo - Controlled Experience The most commonly observed adverse reactions ( those occurring at an incidence of greater than 5 % in the droxidopa capsules group and with at least a 3 % greater incidence in the droxidopa capsules group than in the placebo group ) in droxidopa capsules - treated patients during the three placebo - controlled trials were headache , dizziness , nausea , and hypertension .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation from droxidopa capsules were hypertension or increased blood pressure and nausea .
Table 1 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions Occurring More Frequently in the droxidopa capsules Group Study 301 and Study 302 ( 1 to 2 Weeks Randomized Treatment ) Study 306 ( 8 to 10 Weeks Randomized Treatment ) Placebo ( N = 132 ) n ( % ) Droxidopa capsules ( N = 131 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 108 ) n ( % ) Droxidopa capsules ( N = 114 ) n ( % ) Headache 4 ( 3 . 0 ) 8 ( 6 . 1 ) 8 ( 7 . 4 ) 15 ( 13 . 2 ) Dizziness 2 ( 1 . 5 ) 5 ( 3 . 8 ) 5 ( 4 . 6 ) 11 ( 9 . 6 ) Nausea 2 ( 1 . 5 ) 2 ( 1 . 5 ) 5 ( 4 . 6 ) 10 ( 8 . 8 ) Hypertension 0 2 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( 0 . 9 ) 8 ( 7 . 0 ) Note : n = number of patients .
Adverse reactions that were reported in greater than 5 % of patients in the droxidopa capsules group and with at least a 3 % greater incidence in the droxidopa capsules group than in the placebo group were from Study 306 .
Long - Term , Open - Label Trials with droxidopa capsules In the long - term , open - label extension studies , a total of 422 patients , mean age 65 years , were treated with droxidopa capsules for a mean total exposure of approximately one year .
The commonly reported adverse events were falls ( 24 % ) , urinary tract infections ( 15 % ) , headache ( 13 % ) , syncope ( 13 % ) , and dizziness ( 10 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of droxidopa capsules .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders : Chest pain Eye Disorders : Blurred vision Gastrointestinal Disorders : Pancreatitis , abdominal pain , vomiting , diarrhea General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Fatigue Nervous System Disorders : Cerebrovascular accident Psychiatric Disorders : Psychosis , hallucination , delirium , agitation , memory disorder 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Use of DOPA decarboxylase inhibitors may require dose adjustments for droxidopa capsules ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Increase Blood Pressure Administering droxidopa capsules in combination with other agents that increase blood pressure ( e . g . , norepinephrine , ephedrine , midodrine , and triptans ) would be expected to increase the risk for supine hypertension .
7 . 2 Parkinson ' s Medications Dopa - decarboxylase inhibitors may require dose adjustments for droxidopa capsules .
7 . 3 Non - selective MAO Inhibitors The concomitant use of selective MAO - B inhibitors , such as rasagiline or selegiline , was permitted in the droxidopa capsules clinical trials .
However , based on mechanism of action , the use of non - selective MAO inhibitors and linezolid should be avoided as there is a potential for increased blood pressure when taken with droxidopa capsules .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) • Patients with Renal Impairment : Dosing recommendations cannot be provided for patients with GFR less than 30 mL / min ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on use of droxidopa capsules in pregnant women and risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
droxidopa capsules did not produce significant reproductive toxicity in pregnant female rats or rabbits or in their fetuses .
However , when pregnant female rats were dosed during days 7 - 17 of gestation ( the period of fetal organogenesis ) with doses of droxidopa capsules corresponding to 0 . 3 , 1 and 3 times the maximum recommended daily dose of 1 , 800 mg in a 60 kg patient , based on body surface area , and when their male and female offspring ( who were exposed only during fetal life ) were subsequently bred , the female offspring exhibited a dose - dependent reduction in the number of live fetuses across all three doses and an increased number of embryonic / fetal deaths at the two higher doses ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data During a multigenerational reproductive toxicity study in rats , pregnant females were dosed during days 7 - 17 of gestation ( the period of fetal organogenesis ) with doses of droxidopa capsules corresponding to 0 . 3 , 1 and 3 times the maximum recommended daily dose of 1 , 800 mg in a 60 kg patient .
Reduced weight gain , renal lesions , and a small number of deaths were observed in females treated with the two higher doses .
When their male and female offspring ( who were exposed to droxidopa capsules only during fetal life ) were subsequently bred , the female offspring exhibited a dose - dependent reduction in the number of live fetuses across all three doses and an increased number of embryonic / fetal deaths at the two higher doses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of droxidopa capsules or its active metabolite ( s ) in human milk , the effects of droxidopa capsules on the breastfed child , nor the effects of droxidopa capsules on milk production / excretion .
Droxidopa is present in rat milk with peak concentrations seen 4 hours after oral drug administration and drug excretion into milk still occurring 48 hours after administration ( see Data ) .
However , due to species - specific differences in lactation physiology , animal lactation data typically do not reliably predict levels in humans .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including reduced weight gain in breastfed infants , advise a woman not to breastfeed during treatment with droxidopa capsules .
Data Animal Data In rats , oral administration of droxidopa resulted in excretion into breast milk with peak concentrations seen 4 hours after administration , and excretion still occurring 48 hours after administration .
When the drug was administered to nursing dams during the period of lactation at a dose corresponding to 3 times the maximum recommended daily dose of 1 , 800 mg in a 60 kg patient when based on body surface area , reduced weight gain and reduced survival were observed in the offspring .
Despite the observed decreased weight gain , physical development was normal ( with respect to timing and organ morphology ) .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of droxidopa capsules in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 197 patients with symptomatic nOH aged 75 years or above were included in the droxidopa capsules clinical program .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Droxidopa capsules and its metabolites are primarily cleared renally .
Patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( GFR greater than 30 mL / min ) were included in clinical trials and did not have a higher frequency of adverse reactions .
Clinical experience with droxidopa capsules in patients with severe renal function impairment ( GFR less than 30 mL / min ) is limited .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms There have been cases of overdose reported during postmarketing surveillance .
A patient ingested 7 , 700 mg of droxidopa and experienced a hypertensive crisis that resolved promptly with treatment .
Another patient treated with a total daily dose of 2 , 700 mg of droxidopa capsules experienced hypertension and an intracranial hemorrhage .
10 . 2 Treatment There is no known antidote for droxidopa capsules overdosage .
In case of an overdose that may result in an excessively high blood pressure , discontinue droxidopa capsules and treat with appropriate symptomatic and supportive therapy .
Counsel patients to remain in a standing or seated position until their blood pressure drops below an acceptable limit .
11 DESCRIPTION Droxidopa capsules contain droxidopa , which is a synthetic amino acid precursor of norepinephrine , for oral administration .
Chemically , droxidopa is ( – ) - threo - 3 - ( 3 , 4 - Dihydroxyphenyl ) - L - serine .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Droxidopa is an odorless , tasteless , white to light brown color powder .
It is slightly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in methanol , glacial acetic acid , ethanol , acetone , ether , and chloroform .
It is soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid .
It has a molecular weight of 213 . 19 and a molecular formula of C9H11NO5 .
Droxidopa capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , pregelatinised starch ( corn starch ) , and magnesium stearate .
The capsule shell is printed with black ink .
The black inks contain shellac , propylene glycol , black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide .
The capsule shell contains the following inactive ingredients : 100 mg – gelatin , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 2 , black and red iron oxide ; 200 mg – gelatin , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 2 , black and yellow iron oxide ; 300 mg – gelatin , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 2 , yellow iron oxide .
Droxidopa capsules differ in size and color by strength [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The exact mechanism of action of droxidopa capsules in the treatment of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension is unknown droxidopa capsules is a synthetic amino acid analog that is directly metabolized to norepinephrine by dopa - decarboxylase , which is extensively distributed throughout the body .
droxidopa capsules is believed to exert its pharmacological effects through norepinephrine and not through the parent molecule or other metabolites .
Norepinephrine increases blood pressure by inducing peripheral arterial and venous vasoconstriction droxidopa capsules in humans induces small and transient rises in plasma norepinephrine .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Peak droxidopa plasma concentrations are associated with increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures .
Droxidopa has no clinically significant effect on standing or supine heart rates in patients with autonomic failure .
Cardiac Electrophysiology No prolongation of the QTc interval was observed with droxidopa capsules at single oral doses up to 2 , 000 mg , as shown in a dedicated thorough QT study .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of droxidopa were reached by 1 to 4 hours post - dose ( mean of approximately 2 hours ) in healthy volunteers .
High - fat meals have a moderate impact on droxidopa exposure with Cmax and area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) decreasing by 35 % and 20 % , respectively .
The Cmax was delayed by approximately 2 hours with a high - fat meal .
Distribution Pre - clinical studies suggest that droxidopa can cross the blood - brain barrier .
Droxidopa exhibits plasma protein binding of 75 % at 100 ng / mL and 26 % at 10 , 000 ng / mL .
The estimated apparent volume of distribution of droxidopa is about 200 L in humans .
Elimination The total clearance of droxidopa after oral administration ( CL / F ) was approximately 400 mL / hr following administration of a single 300 mg dose .
Metabolism The metabolism of droxidopa is mediated by catecholamine pathway and not through the cytochrome P450 system .
Droxidopa is initially converted to methoxylated dihydroxyphenylserine ( 3 - OM - DOPS ) , a major metabolite , by catechol - O - methyltransferase ( COMT ) , to norepinephrine by DOPA decarboxylase ( DDC ) , or to protocatechualdehyde by DOPS aldolase .
After oral dosing in humans , plasma norepinephrine levels peak within 3 to 4 hours but are generally very low ( less than 1 ng / mL ) and variable with no consistent relationship with dose .
The contribution of the metabolites of droxidopa other than norepinephrine to its pharmacological effects is not well understood .
Excretion The mean elimination half - life of droxidopa is approximately 2 . 5 hours in humans .
The major route of elimination of droxidopa and its metabolites is via the kidneys in both animals and in humans .
Studies in animals with radiolabeled drug showed that ~ 75 % of the administered radioactivity was excreted in urine within 24 hours of oral dosing .
Specific Populations There are no clinically relevant effects of age , body mass index , or sex on the pharmacokinetics of droxidopa .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that hepatic function , assessed by aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , alkaline phosphatase , and total bilirubin , did not influence the exposure to droxidopa .
The controlled clinical trials included patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
No dose adjustments are required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies No dedicated drug - drug interaction studies were performed for droxidopa .
Patients in the Phase 3 trials with droxidopa capsules received concomitant levodopa / carbidopa , dopamine agonists , MAO - B inhibitors , COMT inhibitors and other medications used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease .
Carbidopa , a peripheral dopa - decarboxylase inhibitor , could prevent the conversion of droxidopa capsules to norepinephrine outside of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Patients taking droxidopa capsules with L - DOPA / dopa - decarboxylase inhibitor combination drugs had decreased clearance of droxidopa capsules , an increase in overall exposure ( AUC ) to droxidopa of approximately 100 % , and an increase in overall exposure to 3 - OM - DOPS of approximately 50 % .
However , in clinical trials , it was found that the decreased clearance was not associated with a significant need for a different treatment dose or increases in associated adverse events .
Dopamine agonists , amantadine derivatives , and MAO - B inhibitors do not appear to affect droxidopa capsules clearance , and no dose adjustments are required .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Long - term studies have been conducted at dosages up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day in mice and up to 100 mg / kg / day in rats with no indication of carcinogenic effects .
Based on dose per unit body surface area , these two doses correspond to approximately 3 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , the maximum recommended total daily dose of 1 , 800 mg in a 60 kg patient .
Droxidopa was clastogenic in Chinese hamster ovary cells ( chromosome aberration assay ) , but was not mutagenic in bacteria ( Ames assay ) , and was not clastogenic in a mouse micronucleus assay .
Studies in rats show that droxidopa has no effect on fertility .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In long - term chronic toxicity studies , rats and mice treated for 52 and 80 weeks , respectively , at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day in rats and 1 , 000 mg / kg / day in mice had increased incidences of renal and cardiac lesions ( rats and mice ) and deaths ( rats only ) .
The doses at which these effects were not seen represented 0 . 2 and 0 . 3 times , in rats and mice , respectively , the maximum recommended total daily dose of 1 , 800 mg in a 60 kg patient , when based on body surface area .
No signs of toxicity were observed in monkeys or dogs given droxidopa for 13 weeks at doses 32 times ( 3 , 000 mg / kg / day ) and 37 times ( 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ) , respectively , the maximum human dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Studies in Neurogenic Orthostatic Hypotension Clinical studies ( described below ) examined the efficacy of droxidopa capsules in the short - term ( 1 to 2 weeks ) and over longer - term periods ( 8 weeks ; 3 months ) .
Studies 301 and 306 B showed a treatment effect of droxidopa capsules at Week 1 , but none of the studies demonstrated continued efficacy beyond 2 weeks of treatment .
Study 306 B was a multi - center , double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study in patients with symptomatic nOH and Parkinson ’ s disease .
Patients entering the study were required to have a decrease of at least 20 mm Hg or 10 mm Hg , respectively , in systolic or diastolic blood pressure , within 3 minutes after standing , as well as symptoms associated with neurogenic orthostatic hypotension .
The study had an initial dose titration period that lasted up to 2 weeks in which patients received placebo or 100 to 600 mg of droxidopa capsules three times daily , followed by an 8 - week treatment period .
Efficacy was measured using the OHSA Item # 1 score ( “ dizziness , lightheadedness , feeling faint , and feeling like you might black out ” ) at Week 1 , in patients who had completed titration and 1 week of maintenance therapy .
A total of 171 patients were enrolled , and 147 patients were included in the efficacy analysis .
The mean age was 72 years , and patients were mostly Caucasian .
During the study , 94 % of placebo - treated patients and 88 % on droxidopa capsules were taking dopa - decarboxylase inhibitors ; 17 % of placebo - treated patients and 26 % on droxidopa capsules were taking fludrocortisone .
There were more premature discontinuations in the droxidopa capsules group ( 28 % ) than in the placebo group ( 20 % ) .
In both groups , the mean baseline dizziness score was 5 . 1 on an 11 - point scale .
At Week 1 , patients showed a statistically significant mean 0 . 9 unit decrease in dizziness with droxidopa capsules versus placebo ( P = 0 . 028 ) , but the effect did not persist beyond Week 1 .
The data at all time points are shown in Figure 1 .
Patients receiving droxidopa capsules also had a greater increase , compared to placebo , in the Week 1 lowest standing systolic blood pressure within 3 minutes after standing ( 5 . 6 mm Hg ; P = 0 . 032 ) .
Figure 1 .
Mean Change in OHSA Item 1 Score by Week in Study 306 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : The graph is based on observed data only .
The error bars are the 95 % confidence interval of the mean change from baseline in OHSA Item 1 scores .
Figure 2 .
Distribution of Patients by Change in OHSA Item 1 , Baseline to Week 1 , in Study 306 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 shows the distribution of changes from Baseline to Week 1 in the OHSA Item # 1 score .
Overall , the figure shows that patients treated with droxidopa capsules improved more than those treated with placebo .
Study 301 was a multicenter , multinational , double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study in patients with symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic hypotension .
The study included an initial open - label dose titration period , a 7 - day washout period , and a randomized double - blind 7 - day treatment period .
To be eligible for enrollment , patients were required to have a decrease in systolic or diastolic blood pressure of at least 20 or 10 mm Hg , respectively , within 3 minutes after standing .
The study was enriched , such that only patients who had been identified as “ responders ” during the titration period were randomized to droxidopa capsules or placebo .
To be considered a responder , a patient had to demonstrate improvement on the OHSA Item # 1 score by at least 1 point , as well as an increase in systolic blood pressure of at least 10 mm Hg post - standing , during the open - label dose titration period .
Patients who dropped out during the titration period because of side effects or other reasons were also not included in the double - blind portion of the study .
Patients had a primary diagnosis of Parkinson ’ s disease ( n = 60 ) , pure autonomic failure ( n = 36 ) , or multiple system atrophy ( n = 26 ) .
The mean age was 60 years , and most were Caucasian .
45 % of patients were taking dopa decarboxylase inhibitors , and 29 % were taking fludrocortisone .
Efficacy was measured using the Orthostatic Hypotension Questionnaire ( OHQ ) , a patient - reported outcome that measures symptoms of nOH and their impact on the patient ’ s ability to perform daily activities that require standing and walking .
The OHQ includes OHSA Item # 1 as one of several components .
A statistically significant treatment effect was not demonstrated on OHQ ( treatment effect of 0 . 4 unit , P = 0 . 19 ) .
The mean baseline dizziness score on OHSA Item # 1 ( “ dizziness , lightheadedness , feeling faint , and feeling like you might black out ” ) was 5 . 2 units on an 11 - point scale .
At Week 1 of treatment , patients showed a mean 0 . 7 unit decrease in dizziness with droxidopa capsules versus placebo ( P = 0 . 06 ) .
Study 302 ( n = 101 ) was a placebo - controlled , 2 - week randomized withdrawal study of droxidopa capsules in patients with symptomatic nOH .
Study 303 ( n = 75 ) was an extension of Studies 301 and 302 , where patients received their titrated dose of droxidopa capsules for 3 months and then entered a 2 - week randomized withdrawal phase .
Neither study showed a statistically significant difference between treatment arms on its primary endpoint .
Considering these data , the effectiveness of droxidopa capsules beyond 2 weeks is uncertain , and patients should be evaluated periodically to determine whether droxidopa capsules is continuing to provide a benefit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Droxidopa capsules are supplied in the following dosage strengths : 100 mg : Hard gelatin , size 3 capsule , with light blue to blue cap and white opaque body , imprinted with “ 100 ” on cap and “ DRO ” on body in black ink , filled with a white or off white to light brown powder .
200 mg : Hard gelatin , size 2 capsule , with light yellow to yellow cap and white opaque body , imprinted with “ 200 ” on cap and “ DRO ” on body in black ink , filled with a white or off white to light brown powder .
300 mg : Hard gelatin , size 1 capsule , with light green to green cap and white opaque body , imprinted with “ 300 ” on cap and “ DRO ” on body in black ink , filled with a white or off white to light brown powder .
100 mg 90 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 704 - 90 ) 100 mg 500 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 704 - 05 ) 200 mg 90 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 705 - 90 ) 200 mg 500 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 705 - 05 ) 300 mg 90 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 706 - 90 ) 300 mg 500 - count bottle ( NDC code # 67877 - 706 - 05 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Droxidopa capsules should be stored at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Elevations in Blood Pressure Counsel patients that droxidopa capsules causes elevations in blood pressure and increases the risk of supine hypertension , which could lead to strokes , heart attacks , and death .
Instruct patients to rest and sleep in an upper - body elevated position and monitor blood pressure .
Instruct patients how to manage observed blood pressure elevations .
To reduce the risk of supine hypertension , in addition to raising the upper body , the late afternoon dose of droxidopa capsules should be taken at least three hours before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Concomitant Treatments Counsel patients about the concomitant use of drugs to treat other conditions that may have an additive effect with droxidopa capsules [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Allergic Reactions Counsel patients to discontinue droxidopa capsules and seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction such as anaphylaxis , angioedema , bronchospasm , urticaria or rash occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with droxidopa capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Food Patients should take droxidopa capsules the same way each time , either with food or without food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Missed Dose If a dose is missed , patients should take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time and should not double the dose .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 PT3446 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BOTTLE OF 90 ' S - 100 MG NDC 67877 - 704 - 90 Droxidopa Capsules 100 mg Rx Only 90 Capsules Ascend Laboratories , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - BOTTLE OF 90 ' S - 200 MG NDC 67877 - 705 - 90 Droxidopa Capsules 200 mg Rx Only 90 Capsules Ascend Laboratories , LLC PRINCIPAL DIS [ MULTIMEDIA ] PLAY PANEL - BOTTLE OF 90 ' S - 300 MG NDC 67877 - 706 - 90 Droxidopa Capsules 300 mg Rx Only 90 Capsules Ascend Laboratories , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
