Drug Facts Active Ingredient Asian Ginseng USP 75 g Purpose vitamin and mineral Keep out of Reach of Children Stop use and ask a doctor if - chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness or dizziness occurs - your hands or feet swell - breast tenderness - menstrual irregularities - If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
- Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Indication & Usage Uses - Supports immune system - Improves the health of people recovering from illness .
Other information - before use , read all information on carton - store at controlled room temperature 1 to 30 ℃ - do not store in hot location or expose to sunlight .
Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to Ginseng Ask a doctor before use if you have - heart disease - high fever , skin imitation or chest problems - diabetes - headaches and sleep problems - indigestion or gastrointestinal problems Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking antibiotics .
Dosage & Administraion Softening Instructions Prior to consumption , ginseng must be softened in warm water .
Heat a cup of water to the temperature that you would use when safely consuming tea .
Place root slices in the cup of warm water and allow to soften for 15 minutes .
When slices have softened sufficiently , you may consume them as well as enjoy the resulting ginseng tea .
Caution Chewing root slices directly from the container may injure teeth and be difficult to swallow , presenting a choking hazard .
Follow softening instructions .
Prior to consumption , allow roots and liquid to cool , then gently bite a slice to ensure softness is appropriate for thorough chewing .
Product is not intended for those with difficulty chewing .
If you are pregnant or on medication , consult your doctor prior to use .
Inactive Ingredient Korean Red Ginseng Korea Ginseng Corporation Cheong - Kwan - Jang Sliced Korean HongSam Net WT .
2 . 65 OZ ( 75 g , about 70 bars ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
