WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY • ODOMZO can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman .
ODOMZO is embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic in animals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating therapy .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise males of the potential risk of exposure through semen and to use condoms with a pregnant partner or a female partner of reproductive potential during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• ODOMZO can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman and is embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic in animals .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating therapy .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Advise males of the potential risk of exposure through semen and to use condoms with a pregnant partner or a female partner of reproductive potential during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) Warnings and Precautions , Premature Fusion of the Epiphyses ( 5 . 3 ) 05 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ODOMZO ( sonidegib ) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) that has recurred following surgery or radiation therapy , or those who are not candidates for surgery or radiation therapy .
ODOMZO is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) that has recurred following surgery or radiation therapy , or those who are not candidates for surgery or radiation therapy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dosage : 200 mg orally once daily taken on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Safety Information Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ODOMZO [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ODOMZO is 200 mg taken orally once daily on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal , administered until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Obtain serum creatine kinase ( CK ) levels and renal function tests prior to initiating ODOMZO in all patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
If a dose of ODOMZO is missed , resume dosing with the next scheduled dose .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Interrupt ODOMZO for • Severe or intolerable musculoskeletal adverse reactions .
• First occurrence of serum CK elevation between 2 . 5 and 10 times upper limit of normal ( ULN ) .
• Recurrent serum CK elevation between 2 . 5 and 5 times ULN .
Resume ODOMZO at 200 mg daily upon resolution of clinical signs and symptoms .
Permanently discontinue ODOMZO for • Serum CK elevation greater than 2 . 5 times ULN with worsening renal function .
• Serum CK elevation greater than 10 times ULN .
• Recurrent serum CK elevation greater than 5 times ULN .
• Recurrent severe or intolerable musculoskeletal adverse reactions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 200 mg , opaque pink colored with ‘ SONIDEGIB 200 MG ’ printed on the body and ‘ NVR ’ printed on the cap in black ink ( equivalent to 281 mg of diphosphate salt of sonidegib ) .
200 mg capsules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose .
( 5 . 1 ) • Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions : Obtain serum creatine kinase ( CK ) and creatinine levels prior to initiating therapy , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated .
Temporary dose interruption or discontinuation of ODOMZO may be required based on the severity of musculoskeletal adverse reactions .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • Premature fusion of the epiphyses ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity ODOMZO can cause embryo - fetal death or severe birth defects when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , sonidegib was embryotoxic , fetotoxic , and teratogenic at maternal exposures below the recommended human dose of 200 mg [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Potential Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ODOMZO treatment .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to use effective contraception during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Males Advise male patients with female partners to use condoms , even after a vasectomy , during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose to avoid potential drug exposure in pregnant females or females of reproductive potential [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Blood Donation Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products while taking ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose of ODOMZO , because their blood or blood products might be given to a female of reproductive potential .
5 . 2 Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions Musculoskeletal adverse reactions , which may be accompanied by serum creatine kinase ( CK ) elevations , occur with ODOMZO and other drugs which inhibit the hedgehog ( Hh ) pathway .
In a pooled safety analysis of 12 clinical studies involving 571 patients with various advanced cancers treated with ODOMZO at doses ranging from 100 mg to 3000 mg , rhabdomyolysis ( defined as serum CK increase of more than ten times the baseline value with a concurrent 1 . 5 - fold or greater increase in serum creatinine above baseline value ) occurred in one patient ( 0 . 2 % ) treated with ODOMZO 800 mg .
In the BOLT study , musculoskeletal adverse reactions occurred in 68 % ( 54 / 79 ) of patients treated with ODOMZO 200 mg daily with 9 % ( 7 / 79 ) reported as Grade 3 or 4 .
The most frequent manifestations of musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported as an adverse event were muscle spasms ( 54 % ) , musculoskeletal pain ( 32 % ) , and myalgia ( 19 % ) .
Increased serum CK laboratory values occurred in 61 % ( 48 / 79 ) of patients with 8 % ( 6 / 79 ) of patients having Grade 3 or 4 serum CK elevations .
Musculoskeletal pain and myalgia usually preceded serum CK elevation .
Among patients with Grade 2 or higher CK elevations , the median time to onset was 12 . 9 weeks ( range : 2 to 39 weeks ) and the median time to resolution ( to ≤ Grade 1 ) was 12 days ( 95 % CI : 8 to 14 days ) .
ODOMZO was temporarily interrupted in 8 % of patients or permanently discontinued in 8 % of patients for musculoskeletal adverse reactions .
The incidence of musculoskeletal adverse reactions requiring medical intervention ( magnesium supplementation , muscle relaxants , and analgesics or narcotics ) was 29 % , including four patients ( 5 % ) who received intravenous hydration or were hospitalized .
Obtain baseline serum CK and creatinine levels prior to initiating ODOMZO , periodically during treatment , and as clinically indicated ( e . g . , if muscle symptoms are reported ) .
Obtain serum creatinine and CK levels at least weekly in patients with musculoskeletal adverse reactions with concurrent serum CK elevation greater than 2 . 5 times ULN until resolution of clinical signs and symptoms .
Depending on the severity of symptoms , temporary dose interruption or discontinuation may be required for musculoskeletal adverse reactions or serum CK elevation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients starting therapy with ODOMZO of the risk of muscle - related adverse reactions .
Advise patients to report promptly any new unexplained muscle pain , tenderness or weakness occurring during treatment or that persists after discontinuing ODOMZO .
5 . 3 Premature Fusion of the Epiphyses Premature fusion of the epiphyses has been reported in pediatric patients exposed to ODOMZO and other Hh pathway inhibitors .
Despite discontinuation of drug , cases of progressive of epiphyseal fusion have been reported in pediatric patients receiving other Hh pathway inhibitors .
ODOMZO is not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients are muscle spasms , alopecia , dysgeusia , fatigue , nausea , musculoskeletal pain , diarrhea , decreased weight , decreased appetite , myalgia , abdominal pain , headache , pain , vomiting , and pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of ODOMZO was evaluated in BOLT , a randomized , double - blind , multiple cohort trial in which 229 patients received ODOMZO at either 200 mg ( n = 79 ) or 800 mg ( n = 150 ) daily .
The frequency of common adverse reactions including muscle spasms , alopecia , dysgeusia , fatigue , nausea , decreased weight , decreased appetite , myalgia , pain , and vomiting was greater in patients treated with ODOMZO 800 mg as compared to 200 mg .
The data described below reflect exposure to ODOMZO 200 mg daily in 79 patients with locally advanced BCC ( laBCC ; n = 66 ) or metastatic BCC ( mBCC ; n = 13 ) enrolled in BOLT .
Patients were followed for at least 18 months unless discontinued earlier .
The median duration of treatment with ODOMZO was 11 . 0 months ( range 1 . 3 to 33 . 5 months ) .
The study population characteristics were : median age of 67 years ( range 25 to 92 ; 59 % were ≥ 65 years ) , 61 % male , and 90 % white .
The majority of patients had prior surgery ( 75 % ) , radiotherapy ( 24 % ) , systemic chemotherapy ( 4 % ) , or topical or photodynamic therapies ( 18 % ) for treatment of BCC .
No patient had prior exposure to a Hh pathway inhibitor .
ODOMZO was permanently discontinued in 34 % of patients or temporarily interrupted in 20 % of patients for adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions reported in at least two patients that led to discontinuation of the drug were : muscle spasms , and dysgeusia ( each 5 % ) , asthenia , increased lipase , and nausea ( each 4 % ) , fatigue , decreased appetite , alopecia , and decreased weight ( each 3 % ) .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 18 % of patients .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients treated with ODOMZO 200 mg were muscle spasms , alopecia , dysgeusia , fatigue , nausea , musculoskeletal pain , diarrhea , decreased weight , decreased appetite , myalgia , abdominal pain , headache , pain , vomiting , and pruritus ( Table 1 ) .
The key laboratory abnormalities are described in Table 2 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 10 % of Patients in BOLT Adverse Reaction ODOMZO 200 mg ( N = 79 ) All Gradesa % Grade 3 % Musculoskeletal and connective tissue Muscle spasms 54 3 Musculoskeletal pain 32 1 Myalgia 19 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue Alopecia 53 0 Pruritus 10 0 Nervous system Dysgeusia 46 0 Headache 15 1 General Fatigue 41 4 Pain 14 1 Gastrointestinal Nausea 39 1 Diarrhea 32 1 Abdominal pain 18 0 Vomiting 11 1 Investigations Decreased weight 30 3 Metabolism and nutrition Decreased appetite 23 1 a No Grade 4 adverse reactions were reported .
Table 2 : Key Laboratory Abnormalitiesa in BOLT Laboratory Test ODOMZO 200 mg ( N = 79 ) All Grades % Grades 3 - 4 % Chemistry Increased serum creatinine 92 b 0 Increased serum creatine kinase ( CK ) 61 8 Hyperglycemia 51 4 Increased lipase 43 13 Increased alanine aminotransferase 19 4 Increased aspartate aminotransferase 19 4 Increased amylase 16 1 Hematology Anemia 32 0 Lymphopenia 28 3 a Based on worst post - treatment laboratory value regardless of baseline ; grading by CTCAE v4 . 03 .
b The serum creatinine level remained within normal range in 76 % ( 60 / 79 ) of patients .
Amenorrhea Amenorrhea lasting for at least 18 months occurred in two of 14 pre - menopausal women treated with ODOMZO 200 mg or 800 mg once daily .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A inhibitors : Avoid strong CYP3A inhibitors .
Avoid long - term ( greater than 14 days ) use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A inducers : Avoid strong and moderate CYP3A inducers .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on ODOMZO Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant administration of ODOMZO with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant administration of ODOMZO with moderate CYP3A inhibitors .
If a moderate CYP3A inhibitor must be used , administer the moderate CYP3A inhibitor for less than 14 days and monitor closely for adverse reactions particularly musculoskeletal adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant administration of ODOMZO with strong and moderate CYP3A inducers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action and data from animal reproduction studies , ODOMZO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on the use of ODOMZO in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of sonidegib during organogenesis at doses below the recommended human dose of 200 mg resulted in embryotoxicity , fetotoxicity , and teratogenicity in rabbits ( see Data ) .
Teratogenic effects observed included severe midline defects , missing digits , and other irreversible malformations .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Report pregnancies to Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 - 4 % and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 15 - 20 % .
Data Animal Data Daily oral administration of sonidegib to pregnant rabbits resulted in abortion , complete resorption of fetuses , or severe malformations at ≥ 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 05 times the recommended human dose based on AUC ) .
Teratogenic effects included vertebral , distal limb and digit malformations , severe craniofacial malformations , and other severe midline defects .
Skeletal variations were observed when maternal exposure to sonidegib was below the limit of detection .
8 . 2 Lactation No data are available regarding the presence of sonidegib in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ODOMZO and for 20 months after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Based on its mechanism of action and animal data , ODOMZO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating ODOMZO treatment .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose .
Males It is not known if sonidegib is present in semen .
Advise male patients to use condoms , even after a vasectomy , to avoid potential drug exposure to pregnant partners and female partners of reproductive potential during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose .
Advise males not to donate semen during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose .
Infertility Based on findings from animal studies , female fertility may be compromised with ODOMZO [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ODOMZO have not been established in pediatric patients .
Epiphyseal disorders , including premature fusion of the epiphyses , have been reported in pediatric patients exposed to ODOMZO in a clinical trial .
In some cases , pediatric patients treated with other Hh pathway inhibitors have experienced progression of epiphyseal fusion despite discontinuation of the Hh pathway inhibitor .
Juvenile Animal Data In a 5 - week juvenile rat toxicology study , effects of sonidegib were observed in bone , teeth , reproductive tissues , and nerves at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 2 times the recommended human dose based on AUC ) .
Bone findings included thinning / closure of bone growth plate , decreased bone length and width , and hyperostosis .
Findings in teeth included missing or fractured teeth , and atrophy .
Reproductive tissue toxicity was evidenced by atrophy of testes , ovaries , and uterus , partial development of the prostate gland and seminal vesicles , and inflammation and aspermia of the epididymis .
Nerve degeneration was also noted .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 229 patients who received ODOMZO ( 79 patients receiving 200 mg daily and 150 patients receiving 800 mg daily ) in BOLT , 54 % were 65 years and older , while 28 % were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
There was a higher incidence of serious adverse reactions , Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions , and adverse reactions requiring dose interruption or discontinuation in patients ≥ 65 years compared with younger patients ; this was not attributable to an increase in any specific adverse event .
11 DESCRIPTION Sonidegib is a Hh pathway inhibitor .
The molecular formula for sonidegib phosphate is C26H26 F3N3O3 • 2H3PO4 .
The molecular weight is 681 . 49 daltons .
The chemical name is N - [ 6 - ( cis - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholin - 4 - yl ) pyridine - 3 - yl ] - 2 - methyl - 4 ’ - ( trifluoromethoxy ) [ 1 , 1 ’ - biphenyl ] - 3 - carboxamide diphosphate .
The molecular structure is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sonidegib phosphate is a white to off - white powder .
Sonidegib freebase is practically insoluble .
ODOMZO ( sonidegib ) capsules for oral use contain 200 mg of sonidegib as the freebase ( equivalent to 281 mg of diphosphate salt of sonidegib ) and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The opaque pink hard gelatin capsule shell contains gelatin , red iron oxide , and titanium dioxide .
The black printing ink contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide , propylene glycol , and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sonidegib is an inhibitor of the Hh pathway .
Sonidegib binds to and inhibits Smoothened , a transmembrane protein involved in Hh signal transduction .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose of 800 mg once daily , sonidegib does not prolong the QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Sonidegib exhibited dose - proportional increases in the area under the curve ( AUC ) and the maximal concentration ( Cmax ) over the dose range of 100 mg to 400 mg , but less than dose - proportional increases at doses greater than 400 mg .
Steady - state was reached approximately 4 months after starting ODOMZO and the estimated accumulation at steady - state was 19 - fold .
Following a dose of 200 mg once daily , the estimated mean steady - state Cmax is 1030 ng / mL , AUC0 - 24 h is 22 μg * h / mL and minimal concentration ( Cmin ) is 890 ng / mL .
Absorption Less than 10 % of an oral dose of ODOMZO is absorbed .
Following the administration of a single ODOMZO dose ( 100 mg to 3000 mg ) under fasted conditions in patients with cancer , the median time - to - peak concentration ( Tmax ) was 2 to 4 hours .
Effect of Food A high - fat meal ( approximately 1000 calories with 50 % of calories from fat ) increased exposure to sonidegib ( geometric mean AUCinf and Cmax ) by 7 . 4 - to 7 . 8 - fold [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution The estimated apparent steady - state volume of distribution ( Vss / F ) was 9 , 166 L . Sonidegib was greater than 97 % bound to human plasma proteins in vitro and the binding was concentration independent .
In vitro studies suggested that sonidegib is not a substrate of P - glycoprotein , MRP2 or BCRP .
Elimination The elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of sonidegib estimated from population pharmacokinetic ( PK ) modeling was approximately 28 days .
Metabolism Sonidegib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A .
The main circulating compound was unchanged sonidegib ( 36 % of circulating radioactivity ) .
Excretion Sonidegib and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the hepatic route .
Of the absorbed dose , approximately 70 % was eliminated in the feces and 30 % was eliminated in the urine .
Unchanged sonidegib was not detectable in the urine .
Specific Populations Age , body weight , hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A , B and C ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 89 mL / min ) and sex had no clinically meaningful effect on sonidegib steady - state exposure .
Racial or Ethnic Groups A cross study comparison suggests that geometric mean AUCinf of sonidegib is 1 . 7 - fold higher in Japanese healthy subjects compared to Western healthy subjects ( Whites and Blacks ) following a single 200 mg dose of ODOMZO .
Drug Interaction Studies Effects of CYP3A Inhibitors on Sonidegib Strong CYP3A inhibitor : The geometric mean sonidegib AUC0 - 10 d increased by 2 . 2 - fold and the Cmax increased by 1 . 5 - fold when ODOMZO at a dose of 800 mg was taken with ketoconazole compared to ODOMZO alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The geometric mean sonidegib steady - state AUC0 - 24 h would similarly increase in cancer patients taking ODOMZO 200 mg once daily when coadministered with a strong CYP3A inhibitor for 14 days .
Moderate CYP3A inhibitor : The geometric mean sonidegib steady - state AUC0 - 24 h would increase 1 . 8 - fold when ODOMZO 200 mg once daily is coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor ( erythromycin ) for 14 days and would increase 2 . 8 - fold when ODOMZO 200 mg once daily is coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor ( erythromycin ) for 4 months .
Effects of CYP3A Inducers on Sonidegib Strong CYP3A inducer : The geometric mean sonidegib AUC0 - 10 d decreased by 72 % and the Cmax decreased by 54 % when ODOMZO at a dose of 800 mg was taken with rifampicin compared to ODOMZO alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A inducer : The geometric mean sonidegib steady - state AUC0 - 24 h would decrease 56 % in cancer patients taking ODOMZO 200 mg once daily when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer ( efavirenz ) for 14 days and would decrease 69 % when coadministered with a moderate CYP3A inducer ( efavirenz ) for 4 months [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Effect of Sonidegib on Cytochrome P450 Enzymes and Transporters In vitro studies suggested that sonidegib inhibits CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 and it does not induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 or CYP3A expression or activity .
In vitro studies suggested that sonidegib inhibits BCRP , but not P - glycoprotein , MRP2 , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT1 or OCT2 .
Effects of Acid Reducing Agents on Sonidegib No clinically meaningful effect on sonidegib exposure was observed when ODOMZO at dose of 200 mg was coadministered with esomeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with sonidegib have not been performed .
Sonidegib was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay and was not clastogenic or aneugenic in the in vitro human chromosome aberration assay or in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Sonidegib resulted in a lack of fertility when administered to female rats at ≥ 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 3 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ( BSA ) .
A reduction of the number of pregnant females , an increase in the number of early resorptions , and a decrease in the number of viable fetuses was also noted at 2 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 12 times the recommended human dose based on BSA ) .
In addition , in a 6 month repeat - dose toxicology study in rats , effects on female reproductive organs included atrophy of the uterus and ovaries at doses of 10 mg / kg ( approximately ≥ 2 times the exposure in humans at the recommended dose of 200 mg based on AUC ) .
No adverse effects on fertility were noted when male rats were administered sonidegib at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day , the highest dose tested .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Body tremors along with significant increases in creatine kinase were observed in rats administered oral sonidegib for 13 weeks or longer at ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately ≥ 2 times the recommended human dose based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and effectiveness of ODOMZO were evaluated in a single , multicenter , double - blind , multiple cohort clinical trial conducted in patients with locally advanced basal cell carcinoma ( laBCC ) ( n = 194 ) or metastatic basal cell carcinoma ( mBCC ) ( n = 36 ) ( BOLT , NCT01327053 ) .
Patients were randomized ( 2 : 1 ) to receive either ODOMZO 800 mg or 200 mg orally , once daily , until disease progression or intolerable toxicity .
Randomization was stratified by stage of disease ( locally advanced or metastatic ) , laBCC disease histology ( aggressive vs . non - aggressive ) , and geographic region .
Patients with laBCC were required to have lesions for which radiotherapy was contraindicated or inappropriate ( e . g . , Gorlin syndrome or limitations because of location of tumor ) , that had recurred after radiotherapy , that were unresectable or for which surgical resection would result in substantial deformity , or that had recurred after prior surgical resection .
The major efficacy outcome measure of the trial was objective response rate ( ORR ) as determined by blinded central review according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( mRECIST ) for patients with laBCC or RECIST version 1 . 1 for patients with mBCC .
Duration of response ( DoR ) , determined by blinded central review , was a key secondary outcome measure .
For patients with laBCC , the evaluation of tumor response was based on a composite assessment that integrated tumor measurements obtained by radiographic assessments of target lesions ( per RECIST 1 . 1 ) , digital clinical photography , and histopathology assessments ( via punch biopsies ) .
All modalities used must have demonstrated absence of tumor to achieve a composite assessment of complete response ( CR ) .
Response by digital clinical photography was evaluated by World Health Organization ( WHO ) adapted criteria [ partial response ( PR ) : ≥ 50 % decrease in the sum of the product of perpendicular diameters ( SPD ) of the lesions , CR : disappearance of all lesions , progressive disease ( PD ) : ≥ 25 % increase in the SPD of the lesions ] .
Multiple punch biopsies of target lesions were performed to confirm a CR or when a response assessment was confounded by presence of lesion ulceration , cyst , and or scarring / fibrosis .
A total of 66 patients randomized to ODOMZO 200 mg daily had laBCC .
Three of these patients had a diagnosis of Gorlin Syndrome .
The demographic characteristics of the 66 patients with laBCC were : median age of 67 years ( range : 25 to 92 years ; 58 % were ≥ 65 years ) ; 58 % male , 89 % white , and ECOG performance status of 0 ( 67 % ) .
Seventy - six percent of patients had prior therapy for treatment of BCC ; this included surgery ( 73 % ) , radiotherapy ( 18 % ) , and topical / photodynamic therapies ( 21 % ) .
Approximately half of these patients ( 56 % ) had aggressive histology .
Patients with laBCC randomized to receive ODOMZO 200 mg daily were followed for at least 30 months unless discontinued earlier .
The ORR was 56 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 43 , 68 ) , consisting of 3 ( 5 % ) complete responses and 34 ( 52 % ) partial responses .
A pre - specified sensitivity analysis using an alternative definition for complete response , defined as at least a PR according to MRI and / or photography and no evidence of tumor on biopsy of the residual lesion , yielded a CR rate of 21 % .
The median duration of response was 26 . 1 months ( 95 % CI : 10 . 1 , not reached ) .
A total of 128 patients randomized to ODOMZO 800 mg daily had laBCC .
Twelve of these patients had a diagnosis of Gorlin Syndrome .
There was no evidence of better antitumor activity ( ORR ) among patients with laBCC randomized to receive ODOMZO 800 mg daily and followed for at least 30 months unless discontinued earlier .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each ODOMZO capsule has an opaque pink color with ‘ SONIDEGIB 200 MG ’ printed on the capsule body and ‘ NVR ’ printed on the cap in black ink .
ODOMZO capsules are supplied as follows : Bottle of 30 capsules NDC 47335 - 303 - 83 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Potential • Advise female patients of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise female patients and female partners of male patients to contact their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 20 months after the last dose .
• Advise females who may have been exposed to ODOMZO during pregnancy , either directly or through seminal fluid , to contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc . at 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 .
Males • Advise males , even those with prior vasectomy , to use condoms , to avoid potential drug exposure in both pregnant partners and female partners of reproductive potential during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after the last dose .
Blood Donation • Advise patients not to donate blood or blood products while taking ODOMZO and for 20 months after stopping treatment .
Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for new or worsening signs or symptoms of muscle toxicity , dark urine , decreased urine output , or the inability to urinate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients to take ODOMZO on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ODOMZO and for up to 20 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Ltd .
Patheon Inc .
Mississauga , Ontario L5N 7K9 , Canada Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 ODOMZO is a registered trademark of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Ltd .
OD USPI / MedGuide 05 / 2019 MEDICATION GUIDE ODOMZO ® ( o - DOM - zo ) ( sonidegib ) capsules What is the most important information I should know about ODOMZO ?
ODOMZO can cause your baby to die before it is born ( be stillborn ) or cause your baby to have severe birth defects .
For females who can become pregnant : • You should talk to your healthcare provider about the risks of ODOMZO to your unborn child .
• Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start taking ODOMZO .
• In order to avoid pregnancy , you should use birth control during treatment , and for at least 20 months after your final dose of ODOMZO .
Talk to your healthcare provider about what birth control method is right for you during this time .
• Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you have unprotected sex or if you think your birth control has failed .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think that you may be pregnant .
For males : • It is not known if ODOMZO is present in semen .
Do not donate semen while you are taking ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after your final dose .
• You should always use a condom , even if you have had a vasectomy , during sex with female partners who are pregnant or who are able to become pregnant , during treatment with ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after your final dose to protect your female partner from being exposed to ODOMZO .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if your partner becomes pregnant or thinks she is pregnant while you are taking ODOMZO .
Exposure to ODOMZO during pregnancy : If you think that you or your female partner may have been exposed to ODOMZO during pregnancy , talk to your healthcare provider right away .
If you become pregnant during treatment with ODOMZO , you or your healthcare provider should report your pregnancy to Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 .
What is ODOMZO ?
ODOMZO is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with a type of skin cancer , called basal cell carcinoma , that has come back following surgery or radiation or that cannot be treated with surgery or radiation .
It is not known if ODOMZO is safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ODOMZO ?
Before you take ODOMZO , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have muscle pain or spasms , or have a history of a muscle disorder called rhabdomyolysis or myopathy • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about ODOMZO ? ”
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ODOMZO passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 20 months after your final dose of ODOMZO .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during this time .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take ODOMZO ?
• Take ODOMZO exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Take ODOMZO 1 time each day .
• Take ODOMZO at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal .
• If you miss a dose , skip the missed dose .
Take your next dose as scheduled .
What should I avoid while taking ODOMZO ?
• Do not donate blood or blood products while you are taking ODOMZO and for 20 months after your final dose .
• Do not donate semen while taking ODOMZO and for at least 8 months after your final dose .
What are possible side effects of ODOMZO ?
ODOMZO can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about ODOMZO ? ”
• Muscle Problems .
Muscle spasms and muscle pain are common with ODOMZO , but can also sometimes be symptoms of serious muscle problems .
ODOMZO can increase your risk of muscle pain and , rarely a serious condition caused by injury to the muscles ( rhabdomyolysis ) that can lead to kidney damage .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop any new or worsening muscle spasms , pain or tenderness , dark urine , or decreased amount of urine during treatment with ODOMZO .
Your healthcare provider should do a blood test to check for muscle problems and to check your kidney function before you start taking ODOMZO , during treatment , and if you develop muscle problems .
The most common side effects of ODOMZO include : • hair loss • change in taste • tiredness • nausea • diarrhea • weight loss • decreased appetite • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • headache • vomiting • itching ODOMZO can cause absence of menstrual periods ( amenorrhea ) in females who are able to become pregnant .
It is not known if amenorrhea is permanent .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have concerns about fertility .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ODOMZO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ODOMZO ?
• Store ODOMZO at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep ODOMZO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ODOMZO Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ODOMZO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ODOMZO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ODOMZO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ODOMZO ?
Active ingredient : sonidegib Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , poloxamer , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , red iron oxide , and titanium dioxide .
The black printing ink contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide , propylene glycol , and shellac .
Manufactured for Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Ltd . by : Patheon Inc . , Mississauga , Ontario L5N 7K9 , Canada .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . , Cranbury , NJ 08512 .
For more information , go to www . odomzo . com or call 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 .
ODOMZO is a registered trademark of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Ltd .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
2000014462 US Revised 05 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 47335 - 303 - 83 Rx only Odomzo ® ( sonidegib ) capsules 200 mg Pharmacist : Dispense with Medication Guide .
30 Capsules SUN PHARMA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
