BOXED WARNING Sodium nitroprusside injection is not suitable for direct injection .
The solution must be further diluted in sterile 5 % dextrose injection before infusion .
Sodium nitroprusside injection can cause precipitous decreases in blood pressure ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In patients not properly monitored , these decreases can lead to irreversible ischemic injuries or death .
Sodium nitroprusside should be used only when available equipment and personnel allow blood pressure to be continuously monitored .
Except when used briefly or at low ( < 2 mcg / kg / min ) infusion rates , sodium nitroprusside gives rise to important quantities of cyanide ion , which can reach toxic , potentially lethal levels ( see WARNINGS ) .
The usual dose rate is 0 . 5 to 10 mcg / kg / min , but infusion at the maximum dose rate should never last more than 10 minutes .
If blood pressure has not been adequately controlled after 10 minutes of infusion at the maximum rate , administration of sodium nitroprusside should be terminated immediately .
Although acid - base balance and venous oxygen concentration should be monitored and may indicate cyanide toxicity , these laboratory tests provide imperfect guidance .
DESCRIPTION Sodium nitroprusside is disodium pentacyanonitrosylferrate ( 2 - ) dihydrate , a hypotensive agent whose structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] whose molecular formula is Na2 [ Fe ( CN ) 5 NO ] 2H2O , and whose molecular weight is 297 . 95 .
Dry sodium nitroprusside , USP available as reddish - brown powder or crystals , freely soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
In an aqueous solution infused intravenously , sodium nitroprusside is a rapid - acting vasodilator , active on both arteries and veins .
Sodium nitroprusside solution is rapidly degraded by trace contaminants , often with resulting color changes .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
The solution is also sensitive to certain wavelengths of light , and it must be protected from light in clinical use .
Sodium nitroprusside injection is available as : 50 mg Fliptop Vial – Each 2 mL vial contains the equivalent of 50 mg sodium nitroprusside dihydrate in sterile water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of sodium nitroprusside is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins .
Other smooth muscle ( e . g . , uterus , duodenum ) is not affected .
Sodium nitroprusside is more active on veins than on arteries , but this selectivity is much less marked than that of nitroglycerin .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
In association with the decrease in blood pressure , sodium nitroprusside administered intravenously to hypertensive and normotensive patients produces slight increases in heart rate and a variable effect on cardiac output .
In hypertensive patients , moderate doses induce renal vasodilatation roughly proportional to the decrease in systemic blood pressure , so there is no appreciable change in renal blood flow or glomerular filtration rate .
In normotensive subjects , acute reduction of mean arterial pressure to 60 to 75 mm Hg by infusion of sodium nitroprusside caused a significant increase in renin activity .
In the same study , ten renovascular - hypertensive patients given sodium nitroprusside had significant increases in renin release from the involved kidney at mean arterial pressures of 90 to 137 mm Hg .
The hypotensive effect of sodium nitroprusside is seen within a minute or two after the start of an adequate infusion , and it dissipates almost as rapidly after an infusion is discontinued .
The effect is augmented by ganglionic blocking agents and inhaled anesthetics .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Infused sodium nitroprusside is rapidly distributed to a volume that is approximately coextensive with the extracellular space .
The drug is cleared from this volume by intraerythrocytic reaction with hemoglobin ( Hgb ) , and sodium nitroprusside ’ s resulting circulatory half - life is about 2 minutes .
The products of the nitroprusside / hemoglobin reaction are cyanmethemoglobin ( cyanmetHgb ) and cyanide ion ( CN – ) .
Safe use of sodium nitroprusside injection must be guided by knowledge of the further metabolism of these products .
As shown in the diagram below , the essential features of nitroprusside metabolism are • one molecule of sodium nitroprusside is metabolized by combination with hemoglobin to produce one molecule of cyanmethemoglobin and four CN – ions ; • methemoglobin , obtained from hemoglobin , can sequester cyanide as cyanmethemoglobin ; • thiosulfate reacts with cyanide to produce thiocyanate ; • thiocyanate is eliminated in the urine ; • cyanide not otherwise removed binds to cytochromes ; and • cyanide is much more toxic than methemoglobin or thiocyanate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyanide ion is normally found in serum ; it is derived from dietary substrates and from tobacco smoke .
Cyanide binds avidly ( but reversibly ) to ferric ion ( Fe + + + ) , most body stores of which are found in erythrocyte methemoglobin ( metHgb ) and in mitochondrial cytochromes .
When CN – is infused or generated within the bloodstream , essentially all of it is bound to methemoglobin until intraerythrocytic methemoglobin has been saturated .
When the Fe + + + of cytochromes is bound to cyanide , the cytochromes are unable to participate in oxidative metabolism .
In this situation , cells may be able to provide for their energy needs by utilizing anaerobic pathways , but they thereby generate an increasing body burden of lactic acid .
Other cells may be unable to utilize these alternative pathways , and they may die hypoxic deaths .
CN – levels in packed erythrocytes are typically less than 1 μmol / L ( less than 25 mcg / L ) ; levels are roughly doubled in heavy smokers .
At healthy steady state , most people have less than 1 % of their hemoglobin in the form of methemoglobin .
Nitroprusside metabolism can lead to methemoglobin formation ( a ) through dissociation of cyanmethemoglobin formed in the original reaction of sodium nitroprusside with Hgb and ( b ) by direct oxidation of Hgb by the released nitroso group .
Relatively large quantities of sodium nitroprusside , however , are required to produce significant methemoglobinemia .
At physiologic methemoglobin levels , the CN – binding capacity of packed red cells is a little less than 200 μmol / L ( 5 mg / L ) .
Cytochrome toxicity is seen at levels only slightly higher , and death has been reported at levels from 300 to 3000 μmol / L ( 8 to 80 mg / L ) .
Put another way , a patient with a normal red - cell mass ( 35 mL / kg ) and normal methemoglobin levels can buffer about 175 mcg / kg of CN – , corresponding to a little less than 500 mcg / kg of infused sodium nitroprusside .
Some cyanide is eliminated from the body as expired hydrogen cyanide , but most is enzymatically converted to thiocyanate ( SCN – ) by thiosulfate - cyanide sulfur transferase ( rhodanase , EC 2 . 8 . 1 . 1 ) , a mitochondrial enzyme .
The enzyme is normally present in great excess , so the reaction is rate - limited by the availability of sulfur donors , especially thiosulfate , cystine , and cysteine .
Thiosulfate is a normal constituent of serum , produced from cysteine by way of β - mercaptopyruvate .
Physiological levels of thiosulfate are typically about 0 . 1 mmol / L ( 11 mg / L ) , but they are approximately twice this level in pediatric and adult patients who are not eating .
Infused thiosulfate is cleared from the body ( primarily by the kidneys ) with a half - life of about 20 minutes .
When thiosulfate is being supplied only by normal physiologic mechanisms , conversion of CN – to SCN – generally proceeds at about 1 mcg / kg / min .
This rate of CN – clearance corresponds to steady - state processing of a sodium nitroprusside infusion of slightly more than 2 mcg / kg / min .
CN – begins to accumulate when sodium nitroprusside infusions exceed this rate .
Thiocyanate ( SCN – ) is also a normal physiological constituent of serum , with normal levels typically in the range of 50 to 250 μmol / L ( 3 to 15 mg / L ) .
Clearance of SCN – is primarily renal , with a half - life of about 3 days .
In renal failure , the half - life can be doubled or tripled .
Clinical Trials : Baseline - controlled clinical trials have uniformly shown that sodium nitroprusside has a prompt hypotensive effect , at least initially , in all populations .
With increasing rates of infusion , sodium nitroprusside has been able to lower blood pressure without an observed limit of effect .
Clinical trials have also shown that the hypotensive effect of sodium nitroprusside is associated with reduced blood loss in a variety of major surgical procedures .
In patients with acute congestive heart failure and increased peripheral vascular resistance , administration of sodium nitroprusside causes reductions in peripheral resistance , increases in cardiac output , and reductions in left ventricular filling pressure .
Many trials have verified the clinical significance of the metabolic pathways described above .
In patients receiving unopposed infusions of sodium nitroprusside , cyanide and thiocyanate levels have increased with increasing rates of sodium nitroprusside infusion .
Mild to moderate metabolic acidosis has usually accompanied higher cyanide levels , but peak base deficits have lagged behind the peak cyanide levels by an hour or more .
Progressive tachyphylaxis to the hypotensive effects of sodium nitroprusside has been reported in several trials and numerous case reports .
This tachyphylaxis has frequently been attributed to concomitant cyanide toxicity , but the only evidence adduced for this assertion has been the observation that in patients treated with sodium nitroprusside and found to be resistant to its hypotensive effects , cyanide levels are often found to be elevated .
In the only reported comparisons of cyanide levels in resistant and nonresistant patients , cyanide levels did not correlate with tachyphylaxis .
The mechanism of tachyphylaxis to sodium nitroprusside remains unknown .
Pediatric : The effects of sodium nitroprusside to induce hypotension were evaluated in two trials in pediatric patients less than 17 years of age .
In both trials , at least 50 % of the patients were pre - pubertal , and about 50 % of these pre - pubertal patients were less than 2 years of age , including 4 neonates .
The primary efficacy variable was the mean arterial pressure ( MAP ) .
There were 203 pediatric patients in a parallel , dose - ranging study ( Study 1 ) .
During the 30 minute blinded phase , patients were randomized 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 to receive sodium nitroprusside 0 . 3 , 1 , 2 , or 3 mcg / kg / min .
The infusion rate was increased step - wise to the target dose rate ( i . e . , 1 / 3 of the full rate for the first 5 minutes , 2 / 3 of the full rate for the next 5 minutes , and the full dose rate for the last 20 minutes ) .
If the investigator believed that an increase to the next higher dose rate would be unsafe , the infusion remained at the current rate for the remainder of the blinded infusion .
Since there was no placebo group , the change from baseline likely overestimates the true magnitude of blood pressure effect .
Nevertheless , MAP decreased 11 to 20 mmHg from baseline across the four doses ( Table 1 ) .
There were 63 pediatric patients in a long - term infusion trial ( Study 2 ) .
During an open - label phase ( 12 to 24 hours ) , sodium nitroprusside was started at ≤ 0 . 3 mcg / kg / min and titrated according to the BP response .
Patients were then randomized to placebo or to continuing the same dose of sodium nitroprusside .
The average MAP was greater in the control group than in the sodium nitroprusside group for every time point during the blinded withdrawal phase , demonstrating that sodium nitroprusside is effective for at least 12 hours .
In both studies , similar effects on MAP were seen in all age groups .
Table 1 : Change from Baseline in MAP ( mmHg ) After 30 Minutes Double - Blind Infusion ( Study 1 ) Treatment Endpoint 0 . 3 mcg / kg / min ( N = 50 ) 1 mcg / kg / min ( N = 49 ) 2 mcg / kg / min ( N = 53 ) 3 mcg / kg / min ( N = 51 ) Baseline 76 ± 11 77 ± 15 74 ± 12 76 ± 12 30 Min 65 ± 13 60 ± 15 54 ± 12 60 ± 18 Change from Baseline - 11 ± 16 ( - 15 , - 6 . 5 ) - 17 ± 13 ( - 21 , - 13 ) - 20 ± 16 ( - 24 , - 16 ) - 17 ± 19 ( - 22 , - 11 ) Mean ± SD ( 95 % CI ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS & USAGE Sodium nitroprusside is indicated for the immediate reduction of blood pressure of adult and pediatric patients in hypertensive crises .
Concomitant longer - acting antihypertensive medication should be administered so that the duration of treatment with sodium nitroprusside can be minimized .
Sodium nitroprusside is also indicated for producing controlled hypotension in order to reduce bleeding during surgery .
Sodium nitroprusside is also indicated for the treatment of acute congestive heart failure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium nitroprusside should not be used in the treatment of compensatory hypertension , where the primary hemodynamic lesion is aortic coarctation or arteriovenous shunting .
Sodium nitroprusside should not be used to produce hypotension during surgery in patients with known inadequate cerebral circulation , or in moribund patients ( A . S . A . Class 5 E ) coming to emergency surgery .
Patients with congenital ( Leber ’ s ) optic atrophy or with tobacco amblyopia have unusually high cyanide / thiocyanate ratios .
These rare conditions are probably associated with defective or absent rhodanase , and sodium nitroprusside should be avoided in these patients .
Sodium nitroprusside should not be used for the treatment of acute congestive heart failure associated with reduced peripheral vascular resistance such as high - output heart failure that may be seen in endotoxic sepsis .
WARNINGS ( See also the boxed warning at the beginning of this insert . )
The principal hazards of sodium nitroprusside injection administration are excessive hypotension and excessive accumulation of cyanide ( see also OVERDOSAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Excessive Hypotension : Small transient excesses in the infusion rate of sodium nitroprusside can result in excessive hypotension , sometimes to levels so low as to compromise the perfusion of vital organs .
These hemodynamic changes may lead to a variety of associated symptoms ; see ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Nitroprusside - induced hypotension will be self - limited within 1 to 10 minutes after discontinuation of the nitroprusside infusion ; during these few minutes , it may be helpful to put the patient into a head - down ( Trendelenburg ) position to maximize venous return .
If hypotension persists more than a few minutes after discontinuation of the infusion of sodium nitroprusside injection , sodium nitroprusside injection is not the cause , and the true cause must be sought .
Cyanide Toxicity : As described in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY above , sodium nitroprusside infusions at rates above 2 mcg / kg / min generate cyanide ion ( CN – ) faster than the body can normally dispose of it .
( When sodium thiosulfate is given , as described under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , the body ’ s capacity for CN – elimination is greatly increased . )
Methemoglobin normally present in the body can buffer a certain amount of CN – , but the capacity of this system is exhausted by the CN – produced from about 500 mcg / kg of sodium nitroprusside .
This amount of sodium nitroprusside is administered in less than an hour when the drug is administered at 10 mcg / kg / min ( the maximum recommended rate ) .
Thereafter , the toxic effects of CN – may be rapid , serious , and even lethal .
The true rates of clinically important cyanide toxicity cannot be assessed from spontaneous reports or published data .
Most patients reported to have experienced such toxicity have received relatively prolonged infusions , and the only patients whose deaths have been unequivocally attributed to nitroprusside - induced cyanide toxicity have been patients who had received nitroprusside infusions at rates ( 30 to 120 mcg / kg / min ) much greater than those now recommended .
Elevated cyanide levels , metabolic acidosis , and marked clinical deterioration , however , have occasionally been reported in patients who received infusions at recommended rates for only a few hours and even , in one case , for only 35 minutes .
In some of these cases , infusion of sodium thiosulfate caused dramatic clinical improvement , supporting the diagnosis of cyanide toxicity .
Cyanide toxicity may manifest itself as venous hyperoxemia with bright red venous blood , as cells become unable to extract the oxygen delivered to them ; metabolic ( lactic ) acidosis ; air hunger ; confusion ; and death .
Cyanide toxicity due to causes other than nitroprusside has been associated with angina pectoris and myocardial infarction ; ataxia , seizures , and stroke ; and other diffuse ischemic damage .
Hypertensive patients , and patients concomitantly receiving other antihypertensive medications , may be more sensitive to the effects of sodium nitroprusside than normal subjects .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS General : Like other vasodilators , sodium nitroprusside can cause increases in intracranial pressure .
In patients whose intracranial pressure is already elevated , sodium nitroprusside should be used only with extreme caution .
Hepatic : Use caution when administering nitroprusside to patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Use in Anesthesia : When sodium nitroprusside ( or any other vasodilator ) is used for controlled hypotension during anesthesia , the patient ’ s capacity to compensate for anemia and hypovolemia may be diminished .
If possible , pre - existing anemia and hypovolemia should be corrected prior to administration of sodium nitroprusside injection .
Hypotensive anesthetic techniques may also cause abnormalities of the pulmonary ventilation / perfusion ratio .
Patients intolerant of these abnormalities may require a higher fraction of inspired oxygen .
Extreme caution should be exercised in patients who are especially poor surgical risks ( A . S . A . Class 4 and 4 E ) .
LABORATORY TESTS The cyanide - level assay is technically difficult , and cyanide levels in body fluids other than packed red blood cells are difficult to interpret .
Cyanide toxicity will lead to lactic acidosis and venous hyperoxemia , but these findings may not be present until an hour or more after the cyanide capacity of the body ’ s red - cell mass has been exhausted .
DRUG INTERACTIONS The hypotensive effect of sodium nitroprusside is augmented by that of most other hypotensive drugs , including ganglionic blocking agents , negative inotropic agents , and inhaled anesthetics .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Animal studies assessing sodium nitroprusside ’ s carcinogenicity and mutagenicity have not been conducted .
Similarly , sodium nitroprusside has not been tested for effects on fertility .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate , well - controlled studies of sodium nitroprusside injection in either laboratory animals or pregnant women .
It is not known whether sodium nitroprusside injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Sodium nitroprusside injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic effects : In three studies in pregnant ewes , nitroprusside was shown to cross the placental barrier .
Fetal cyanide levels were shown to be dose - related to maternal levels of nitroprusside .
The metabolic transformation of sodium nitroprusside given to pregnant ewes led to fatal levels of cyanide in the fetuses .
The infusion of 25 mcg / kg / min of sodium nitroprusside for one hour in pregnant ewes resulted in the death of all fetuses .
Pregnant ewes infused with 1 mcg / kg / min of sodium nitroprusside for one hour delivered normal lambs .
According to one investigator , a pregnant woman at 24 weeks gestation was given sodium nitroprusside to control gestational hypertension secondary to mitral valve disease .
Sodium nitroprusside was infused at 3 . 9 mcg / kg / min for a total of 3 . 5 mg / kg over 15 hours prior to delivery of a 478 gram stillborn infant without any obvious anomalies .
Cyanide levels in the fetal liver were less than 10 mcg / mL .
Toxic levels have been reported to be more than 30 to 40 mcg / mL .
The mother demonstrated no cyanide toxicity .
The effects of administering sodium thiosulfate in pregnancy , either by itself or as a co - infusion with sodium nitroprusside , are completely unknown .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether sodium nitroprusside and its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from sodium nitroprusside , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
PEDIATRIC USE Efficacy in the pediatric population was established based on adult trials and supported by the dose - ranging trial ( Study 1 ) and an open label trial of at least 12 hour infusion at a rate that achieved adequate MAP control ( Study 2 ) with pediatric patients on sodium nitroprusside .
No novel safety issues were seen in these studies in pediatric patients .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most important adverse reactions to sodium nitroprusside are the avoidable ones of excessive hypotension and cyanide toxicity , described above under WARNINGS .
The adverse reactions described in this section develop less rapidly and , as it happens , less commonly .
Methemoglobinemia : As described in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY above , sodium nitroprusside infusions can cause sequestration of hemoglobin as methemoglobin .
The back - conversion process is normally rapid , and clinically significant methemoglobinemia ( > 10 % ) is seen only rarely in patients receiving sodium nitroprusside injection .
Even patients congenitally incapable of back - converting methemoglobin should demonstrate 10 % methemoglobinemia only after they have received about 10 mg / kg of sodium nitroprusside , and a patient receiving sodium nitroprusside at the maximum recommended rate ( 10 mcg / kg / min ) would take over 16 hours to reach this total accumulated dose .
Methemoglobin levels can be measured by most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who have received > 10 mg / kg of sodium nitroprusside and who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is 1 to 2 mg / kg of methylene blue , administered intravenously over several minutes .
In patients likely to have substantial amounts of cyanide bound to methemoglobin as cyanmethemoglobin , treatment of methemoglobinemia with methylene blue must be undertaken with extreme caution .
Thiocyanate Toxicity : As described in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY above , most of the cyanide produced during metabolism of sodium nitroprusside is eliminated in the form of thiocyanate .
When cyanide elimination is accelerated by the co - infusion of thiosulfate , thiocyanate production is increased .
Thiocyanate is mildly neurotoxic ( tinnitus , miosis , hyperreflexia ) at serum levels of 1 mmol / L ( 60 mg / L ) .
Thiocyanate toxicity is life - threatening when levels are 3 or 4 times higher ( 200 mg / L ) .
The steady - state thiocyanate level after prolonged infusions of sodium nitroprusside is increased with increased infusion rate , and the half - time of accumulation is 3 to 4 days .
To keep the steady - state thiocyanate level below 1 mmol / L , a prolonged infusion of sodium nitroprusside should not be more rapid than 3 mcg / kg / min ; in anuric patients , the corresponding limit is just 1 mcg / kg / min .
When prolonged infusions are more rapid than these , thiocyanate levels should be measured daily .
Physiologic maneuvers ( e . g . , those that alter the pH of the urine ) are not known to increase the elimination of thiocyanate .
Thiocyanate clearance rates during dialysis , on the other hand , can approach the blood flow rate of the dialyzer .
Thiocyanate interferes with iodine uptake by the thyroid .
Abdominal pain , apprehension , diaphoresis , “ dizziness , ” headache , muscle twitching , nausea , palpitations , restlessness , retching , and retrosternal discomfort have been noted when the blood pressure was too rapidly reduced .
These symptoms quickly disappeared when the infusion was slowed or discontinued , and they did not reappear with a continued ( or resumed ) slower infusion .
Other adverse reactions reported are : Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , electrocardiographic changes , tachycardia .
Dermatologic : Rash .
Endocrine : Hypothyroidism .
Gastrointestinal : Ileus .
Hematologic : Decreased platelet aggregation .
Neurologic : Increased intracranial pressure .
Miscellaneous : Flushing , venous streaking , irritation at the infusion site .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact BE Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 648 - 9517 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of nitroprusside can be manifested as excessive hypotension or cyanide toxicity ( see WARNINGS ) or as thiocyanate toxicity ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The acute intravenous mean lethal doses ( LD50 ) of nitroprusside in rabbits , dogs , mice , and rats are 2 . 8 , 5 . 0 , 8 . 4 , and 11 . 2 mg / kg , respectively .
Treatment of cyanide toxicity : Cyanide levels can be measured by many laboratories , and blood - gas studies that can detect venous hyperoxemia or acidosis are widely available .
Acidosis may not appear until more than an hour after the appearance of dangerous cyanide levels , and laboratory tests should not be awaited .
Reasonable suspicion of cyanide toxicity is adequate grounds for initiation of treatment .
Treatment of cyanide toxicity consists of • discontinuing the administration of sodium nitroprusside ; • providing a buffer for cyanide by using sodium nitrite to convert as much hemoglobin into methemoglobin as the patient can safely tolerate ; and then • infusing sodium thiosulfate in sufficient quantity to convert the cyanide into thiocyanate .
The necessary medications for this treatment are contained in commercially available Cyanide Antidote Kits .
Alternatively , discrete stocks of medications can be used .
Hemodialysis is ineffective in removal of cyanide , but it will eliminate most thiocyanate .
Cyanide Antidote Kits contain both amyl nitrite and sodium nitrite for induction of methemoglobinemia .
The amyl nitrite is supplied in the form of inhalant ampoules , for administration in environments where intravenous administration of sodium nitrite may be delayed .
In a patient who already has a patent intravenous line , use of amyl nitrite confers no benefit that is not provided by infusion of sodium nitrite .
Sodium nitrite is available in a 3 % solution , and 4 to 6 mg / kg ( about 0 . 2 mL / kg ) should be injected over 2 to 4 minutes .
This dose can be expected to convert about 10 % of the patient ’ s hemoglobin into methemoglobin ; this level of methemoglobinemia is not associated with any important hazard of its own .
The nitrite infusion may cause transient vasodilatation and hypotension , and this hypotension must , if it occurs , be routinely managed .
Immediately after infusion of the sodium nitrite , sodium thiosulfate should be infused .
This agent is available in 10 % and 25 % solutions , and the recommended dose is 150 to 200 mg / kg ; a typical adult dose is 50 mL of the 25 % solution .
Thiosulfate treatment of an acutely cyanide - toxic patient will raise thiocyanate levels , but not to a dangerous degree .
The nitrite / thiosulfate regimen may be repeated , at half the original doses , after two hours .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dilution to proper strength for infusion : Depending on the desired concentration , the solution containing 50 mg of sodium nitroprusside injection must be further diluted in 250 to 1000 mL of sterile 5 % dextrose injection .
The diluted solution should be protected from light , using the supplied opaque sleeve , aluminum foil , or other opaque material .
It is not necessary to cover the infusion drip chamber or the tubing .
Verification of the chemical integrity of the product : Sodium nitroprusside solution can be inactivated by reactions with trace contaminants .
The products of these reactions are often blue , green , or red , much brighter than the faint brownish color of unreacted sodium nitroprusside injection .
Discolored solutions , or solutions in which particulate matter is visible , should not be used .
If properly protected from light , the freshly diluted solution is stable for 24 hours .
No other drugs should be administered in the same solution with sodium nitroprusside .
Avoidance of excessive hypotension : While the average effective rate in adult and pediatric patients is about 3 mcg / kg / min , some patients will become dangerously hypotensive when they receive sodium nitroprusside injection at this rate .
Infusion of sodium nitroprusside should therefore be started at a very low rate ( 0 . 3 mcg / kg / min ) , with upward titration every few minutes until the desired effect is achieved or the maximum recommended infusion rate ( 10 mcg / kg / min ) has been reached .
Because sodium nitroprusside ’ s hypotensive effect is very rapid in onset and in dissipation , small variations in infusion rate can lead to wide , undesirable variations in blood pressure .
Since there is inherent variation in blood pressure measurement , confirm the drug effect at any infusion rate after an additional 5 minutes before titrating to a higher dose to achieve the desired blood pressure .
Sodium nitroprusside should not be infused through ordinary I . V . apparatus , regulated only by gravity and mechanical clamps .
Only an infusion pump , preferably a volumetric pump , should be used .
Because sodium nitroprusside can induce essentially unlimited blood - pressure reduction , the blood pressure of a patient receiving this drug must be continuously monitored , using either a continually reinflated sphygmomanometer or ( preferably ) an intra - arterial pressure sensor .
Special caution should be used in elderly patients , since they may be more sensitive to the hypotensive effects of the drug .
When sodium nitroprusside is used in the treatment of acute congestive heart failure , titration of the infusion rate must be guided by the results of invasive hemodynamic monitoring with simultaneous monitoring of urine output .
Sodium nitroprusside can be titrated by increasing the infusion rate until : • measured cardiac output is no longer increasing , • systemic blood pressure cannot be further reduced without compromising the perfusion of vital organs , or • the maximum recommended infusion rate has been reached , whichever comes earliest .
Specific hemodynamic goals must be tailored to the clinical situation , but improvements in cardiac output and left ventricular filling pressure must not be purchased at the price of undue hypotension and consequent hypoperfusion .
Table 2 below shows the infusion rates corresponding to the recommended initial and maximal doses ( 0 . 3 mcg / kg / min and 10 mcg / kg / min , respectively ) for both adult and pediatric patients of various weights .
This infusion rate may be lower than indicated in the table for patients less than 10 kg .
Note that when the concentration used in a given patient is changed , the tubing is still filled with a solution at the previous concentration .
Table 2 : Infusion Rates ( mL / hours ) to Achieve Initial ( 0 . 3 mcg / kg / min ) and Maximal ( 10 mcg / kg / min ) Dosing of Sodium Nitroprusside Injection Volume 250 mL 500 mL 1000 mL Sodium Nitroprusside Injection 50 mg 50 mg 50 mg Concentration 200 mcg / mL 100 mcg / mL 50 mcg / mL Pt kg Weight Lbs init max init max init max 10 22 1 30 2 60 4 120 20 44 2 60 4 120 7 240 30 66 3 90 5 180 11 360 40 88 4 120 7 240 14 480 50 110 5 150 9 300 18 600 60 132 5 180 11 360 22 720 70 154 6 210 13 420 25 840 80 176 7 240 14 480 29 960 90 198 8 270 16 540 32 1080 100 220 9 300 18 600 36 1200 Avoidance of cyanide toxicity : As described in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY above , when more than 500 mcg / kg of sodium nitroprusside is administered faster than 2 mcg / kg / min , cyanide is generated faster than the unaided patient can eliminate it .
Administration of sodium thiosulfate has been shown to increase the rate of cyanide processing , reducing the hazard of cyanide toxicity .
Although toxic reactions to sodium thiosulfate have not been reported , the co - infusion regimen has not been extensively studied , and it cannot be recommended without reservation .
In one study , sodium thiosulfate appeared to potentiate the hypotensive effects of sodium nitroprusside .
Co - infusions of sodium thiosulfate have been administered at rates of 5 to 10 times that of sodium nitroprusside .
Care must be taken to avoid the indiscriminate use of prolonged or high doses of sodium nitroprusside with sodium thiosulfate as this may result in thiocyanate toxicity and hypovolemia .
Incautious administration of sodium nitroprusside must still be avoided , and all of the precautions concerning sodium nitroprusside administration must still be observed .
Consideration of methemoglobinemia and thiocyanate toxicity : Rare patients receiving more than 10 mg / kg of sodium nitroprusside will develop methemoglobinemia ; other patients , especially those with impaired renal function , will predictably develop thiocyanate toxicity after prolonged , rapid infusions .
In accordance with the descriptions in ADVERSE REACTIONS above , patients with suggestive findings should be tested for these toxicities .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium nitroprusside injection is supplied in amber - colored , single - dose 50 mg / 2 mL Fliptop Vials ( NDC 71839 - 120 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
To protect Sodium nitroprusside injection from light , it should be stored in its carton until it is used .
Distributed by : BE Pharmaceuticals Inc .
203 New Edition Court Cary , NC 27511 Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Biological E . Limited Plot No . 4 , Survey no . 542 / P , Biotech Park Phase - II , Kolthur Village , Shameerpet Mandal , Medchal , Telangana 500078 , India .
Revised : July 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Sodium Nitroprusside Injection 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) - Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Nitroprusside Injection 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Nitroprusside Injection 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) - Sleeve Box Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium Nitroprusside Injection 50 mg / 2 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) - Light Protective Sleeve Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
