ACTIVE INGREDIENT Witch hazel 50 . 0 % PURPOSE Astringent USES • • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • • temporary relief of irritation and burning • • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas WARNINGS For external use only When using this product • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • bleeding occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • • open the lid on the top of the wipes pouch • • peel back wipes seal , remove completely and discard • • grab the top wipe at the edge of the center fold and pull out of pouch • • close lid after each use to retain moisture • • adults : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area • • use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying topical hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor OTHER INFORMATION • • for best results , flush only one or two wipes at a time • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS aloe barbadensis leaf juice , anhydrous citric acid , capryl / capramidopropyl betaine , diazolidinyl urea , glycerin , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 800 - 99 PrepH or 1 - 800 - 997 - 7374 PRODUCT PACKAGING The product packaging shown below represents a sample of that currently in use .
Additional packaging may also be available .
PREPARATION H Medicated Wipes Hemorrhoidal Wipes with Witch Hazel MAXIMUM STRENGTH FORMULA Gentle , Everyday Cleansing To Reduce Irritation 48 Medicated Wipes With Aloe Cools , Soothes and Comforts Convenient , Easy to Use For Hemorrhoidal and Vaginal Care Flushable and Septic Safe 6 x 5 in .
( 15 . 2 x 12 . 7 cm ) For most recent product information , visit www . preparationh . com Marketed By Wyeth Consumer Healthcare Madison , NJ 07940 USA Made in USA © 2009 Wyeth 10 Wipes Individually Wrapped Each wipe is enclosed in a sealed foil pouch .
Do not use if the pouch is broken or torn .
Other Uses • • for vaginal care – cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• • for use as a moist compress – if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold new wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
