Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Isostearyl isostearate . , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Dimethicone , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Phenoxyethanol , Cetearyl alcohol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Tocopheryl acetate , Rosa moschata seed oil , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Methylparaben , Dimethiconol , Sodium PCA , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Ascorbyl glucoside , Tetrasodium EDTA , Magnesium PCA , T - butyl alcohol , Dipropylene glycol , Zinc PCA , Biosaccharide gum - 1 , Potassium hydroxide , Manganese PCA , Simethicone , Potassium sorbate , Ascorbyl palmitate USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK A nourishing moisture cream to energise and provide all day hydration whilst leaving skin looking and feeling healthy and radiant . The protective power of SPF 15 and broad spectrum sunscreens give you advanced protection for the future and and help keep you looking as young as possible .
Hypo - allergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our products are hypo - allergenic , using ingredients we know and trust .
www . boots . com / no7 For Best Results : Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every morning for make - up ready skin .
Enriched with No7 ' s unique multivitamin and mineral blend to help hydrate and energise skin plus rosehip oil to help lock in moisture .
Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 2 % , Octocrylene 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a .
m . - 2 p .
m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after cleansing every morning JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Active ingredients : Octocrylene 4 % , Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 2 % .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . boots . com / no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Beautiful Skin Day Cream / Normal / Dry Energises and promotes optimum hydration for healthy looking radiant skin Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Beautiful Skin Day Cream Normal / Dry Hypo - allergenic Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
