Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin when using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , cyclopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium Herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , fragrance , tocopheryl acetate , disodium EDTA , steareth - 2 , oleth - 3 phosphate , ascorbic acid , panthenol Questions ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 All - Day Moisturizing Lotion with Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen for Normal SPF 15 Sunscreen for Normal Skin provides log lasting moisture and UVA / UVB protection .
This formula is : Enriched with Vitamin E and C Non - greasy Non - Comedogenic ( wo n't clog pores ) Dermatologist tested 100 % Aminobenzoic Acid ( PABA ) Free Moisturizing - All - Day Moisturizing gves your skin a complete balance of moisturzing ingredients for healthy skin .
UVA / UVB Protection - Broad spectrum UVA and UVB protection with SPF 15 to help prevent premature skin damage .
Vitamins - This formula with antioxidant vitamin E plus C helps promote and maintain healthy - looking skin .
Result - Glowing , beautiful , healthy skin .
Satisfaction guaranteed - Or we ' ll replace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report an undesired reaction or side effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
This product is not manufactured or distriubted by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete All day Moisturizer Lotion SPF 15 principal display panel equate beauty COMPARE TO OLAY COMPLETE ALL DAY MOSITURIZER LOTION ALL - DAY Moisturizing Lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Normal With Vitamins B5 , E & C Non - greasy 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
