Active ingredients Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Purpose sunscreen sunscreen Uses Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings Warnings For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your rish of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly ue a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Inactive Ingredientswater , glycerin , isohexadecane , polysorbate 80 , sodium acrylate / acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , laureth - 7 , cyclopentasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , gossypium herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , steareth - 2 , disodium EDTA , aloe barbadensis leaf extract , oleth - 3 phosphate Claims on side panel Complete Beauty Lotion give your sking a complete balance of moisturizing ingredient for healthy skin , UVA / UVB Protection - Broad spectrum UVA and UVB protection with SPF 15 to help prevent premature sking damage .
Vitamins - this formula with antioxidant vitamin E plus aloe helps promote and maintaind healthy - looking skin .
Result - glowing , beautiful healthy skin .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter + Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete All Day Moisture Lotion SPF 15 Adverse Reactions SATISIFACTIN GUARANTEED OR YOUR ONEY BACK .
Manufactured For Your Military Exchanges By : Vi - Jon 8515 Page Avenue St . Louis , MO 63114 Prncipal display panel SENSITIVE SKIN OIL OF BEAUTY BEAUTY LOTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Compare to Olay Complete all Day Moistrue Lotion SPf 15 Light , Non - Greasy Formula Dermatologist tested 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
