DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % contains the topical corticosteroid , hydrocortisone butyrate , a non - fluorinated hydrocortisone ester .
It has the chemical name : 11β , 17 , 21 - Trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - butyrate ; the molecular formula : C25H36O6 ; the molecular weight : 432 . 54 ; and the CAS registry number : 13609 - 67 - 1 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a base consisting of mineral oil and polyethylene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical corticosteroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA - axis suppression by using adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation tests .
If HPA - axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA - axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
[ See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . ]
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• 5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Note : The animal multiples of human exposure calculations in this label were based on body surface area comparisons for an adult ( i . e . , mg / m2 / day dose comparisons ) assuming 100 % human percutaneous absorption of a maximum topical human dose ( MTHD ) for hydrocortisone butyrate ointment ( 25 g ) .
In a 2 - year dermal rat carcinogenicity study with LOCOID ® lotion , hydrocortisone butyrate was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 0 . 05 , 0 . 15 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males and 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 1 % lotion ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest doses evaluated in this study of 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Hydrocortisone butyrate revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitrogenotoxicity tests ( Ames test and L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay ) and one in vivogenotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of fertility or effect on mating performance was observed in a fertility and general reproductive performance study conducted in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to and including 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
Mild effects on maternal animals , such as reduced food consumption and a subsequent reduction in body weight gain , were seen at doses ≥ 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Teratogenic Effects Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 17 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , fetal effects noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) included an increased incidence of ossification variations and unossified sternebra .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 5 . 4 and 1 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 2 X MTHD and 0 . 7 X MTHD , respectively ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 7 – 20 .
An increased incidence of abortion was noted at 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal body weight was noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Additional indicators of embryofetal toxicity ( i . e . , reduction in litter size , decreased number of viable fetuses , increased post - implantation loss ) were noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Additional fetal effects noted in this study included delayed ossification noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day and an increased incidence of fetal malformations ( primarily skeletal malformations ) noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were observed was not established in this study .
Additional systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and mice .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 and 9 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 9 – 15 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , an increase in fetal deaths , fetal resorptions and an increase in the number of ossifications in caudal vertebrae were noted at a dose of 9 mg / kg / day ( 3 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 2 and 1 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female mice during gestation days 7 – 13 .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , an increased number of cervical ribs and one fetus with clubbed legs were noted at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 1 and 0 . 2 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 0 . 2 X MTHD and 0 . 1 X MTHD , respectively ) .
Topical embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with a hydrocortisone butyrate ointment formulation .
Topical doses of 1 % and 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 15 or pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 6 – 18 .
A dose - dependent increase in fetal resorptions was noted in rabbits ( 0 . 2 – 2 X MTHD ) and fetal resorptions were noted in rats at the 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose ( 80 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at the 1 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose in rats ( 8 X MTHD ) .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were observed in rabbits after topical administration of hydrocortisone butyrate ointment was not established in this study .
No treatment - related effects on teratogenicity were noted at a dose of 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment in rats or rabbits ( 80 X MTHD and 2 X MTHD , respectively ) .
A peri - and postnatal development study was conducted in rats .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats from gestation day 6 to lactation day 20 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal weight was noted at doses ≥ 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on fetal toxicity were noted at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
A delay in sexual maturation was noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on sexual maturation were noted at 1 . 8 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related effects on behavioral development or subsequent reproductive performance were noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk , in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA - axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin - surface - area - to - body - weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oceanside Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % should be applied to the affected areas as a thin layer 2 or 3 times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Butyrate Ointment , 0 . 1 % is supplied in tubes containing : 15 g ( NDC 68682 - 271 - 15 ) 45 g ( NDC 68682 - 271 - 45 ) STORAGE Store at controlled temperature between 2 ° to 30 ° C ( 36 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Oceanside Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Ferndale Laboratories , Inc .
Ferndale , MI 48220 USA LOCOID is a trademark of Leo Pharma A / S used under license .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9491001 Revised : 12 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 45 g Carton NDC 68682 - 271 - 45 Rx only HYDROCORTISONE BUTYRATE OINTMENT 0 . 1 % For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Net Wt .
45 g OCEANSIDE PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
