1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INVELTYS is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
INVELTYS is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of post - operative inflammation and pain following ocular surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Shake for one to two seconds before using .
( 2 ) • Instill one to two drops of INVELTYS into the affected eye twice daily beginning the day after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information Instill one to two drops of INVELTYS into the affected eye twice daily beginning the day after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post - operative period .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions Instruct patient to wash hands well before each use .
Shake for one to two seconds before using .
If the patient is using other eye drops in addition to INVELTYS , advise the patient to wait at least 5 minutes between instillation of INVELTYS and other eye drops .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic suspension containing 10 mg / mL of loteprednol etabonate .
Ophthalmic suspension containing 10 mg / mL of loteprednol etabonate .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS INVELTYS is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
INVELTYS is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , IOP should be monitored .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cataracts : Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed Healing : Use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
( 5 . 3 ) • Bacterial Infections : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
( 5 . 4 ) • Viral Infections : Use of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
( 5 . 5 ) • Fungal Infections : Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Intraocular Pressure ( IOP ) Increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , as well as defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored .
5 . 2 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Healing Use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Bacterial Infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
5 . 5 Viral Infections Use of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
5 . 6 Fungal Infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
5 . 7 Risk of Contamination Do not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
5 . 8 Contact Lens Wear The preservative in INVELTYS may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of INVELTYS and may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with infrequent optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , delayed wound healing and secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
The most common adverse drug reactions were eye pain ( 1 % ) and posterior capsular opacification ( 1 % ) .
These reactions may have been the consequence of the surgical procedure .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Kala Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 833 - 287 - KALA ( 1 - 833 - 287 - 5252 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse drug reactions in the clinical trials with INVELTYS were eye pain and posterior capsular opacification , both reported in 1 % of patients .
These reactions may have been the consequence of the surgical procedure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary INVELTYS is not absorbed systemically following topical ophthalmic administration and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary INVELTYS is not absorbed systemically by the mother following topical ophthalmic administration , and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the child to INVELTYS .
8 . 3 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 4 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Loteprednol etabonate is a corticosteroid .
Its chemical name is chloromethyl 17α - [ ( ethoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - 11β - hydroxy - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carboxylate .
Its molecular formula is C24H31ClO7 and its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C24H31ClO7 Mol .
Wt .
467 . 0 INVELTYS ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % contains a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
Each mL contains : • ACTIVE : loteprednol etabonate 10 mg ( 1 % ) • INACTIVES : glycerin , sodium citrate dihydrate , Poloxamer 407 , sodium chloride , edetate disodium dihydrate , citric acid , and water for injection • PRESERVATIVE : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
While glucocorticoids are known to bind to and activate the glucocorticoid receptor , the molecular mechanisms involved in glucocorticoid / glucocorticoid receptor - dependent modulation of inflammation are not clearly established .
However , corticosteroids are thought to inhibit prostaglandin production through several independent mechanisms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Loteprednol etabonate is lipid soluble and can penetrate into cells .
Loteprednol etabonate is synthesized through structural modifications of prednisolone - related compounds so that it will undergo a predictable transformation to an inactive metabolite .
Based upon in vivo and in vitro preclinical metabolism studies , loteprednol etabonate undergoes extensive metabolism to inactive carboxylic acid metabolites , PJ - 91 and PJ - 90 .
Following twice - daily unilateral topical ocular dosing of INVELTYS for 14 days in healthy subjects , the plasma concentrations of loteprednol etabonate were below the limit of quantitation ( 1 ng / mL ) at all timepoints .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of loteprednol etabonate .
Loteprednol etabonate was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma thymidine kinase ( tk ) assay , or in a chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , or in vivo in the single dose mouse micronucleus assay .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical efficacy was evaluated in 2 multi - centered , randomized , double - masked , placebo - controlled trials in which patients with an anterior cell grade greater than or equal to " 2 " ( a cell count of 6 or higher using a slit - lamp biomicroscope ) after cataract surgery were assigned to INVELTYS or placebo ( vehicle ) following surgery ( NCT # 02163824 and NCT # 02793817 ) .
One to two drops of INVELTYS or vehicle was self - administered twice a day for 14 days , beginning the day after surgery .
Complete resolution of inflammation ( a cell count of 0 maintained through day 15 without rescue medication ) and complete resolution of pain ( a patient - reported pain grade of 0 maintained through day 15 without rescue medication ) was assessed 4 , 8 , and 15 days post - surgery .
In the intent - to - treat analysis of both studies , a significant benefit was seen in the INVELTYS - treated group for complete resolution of ocular inflammation at Days 8 and 15 , and complete resolution of pain at Days 4 , 8 , and 15 , when compared with placebo .
The consolidated clinical trial results are provided below .
Figure 1 Consolidated Clinical Trial Data : Percent of Patients with Complete Resolution of Anterior Chamber Cells ( Cell Count = 0 ) at Days 8 and 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] * p - values < 0 . 01 for treatment comparisons Figure 2 Consolidated Clinical Trial Data : Percent of Patients Who Were Pain Free at Days 4 , 8 , and 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] * p - values < 0 . 01 for treatment comparisons [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING INVELTYS ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % is a sterile ophthalmic suspension .
It is supplied in a white low - density polyethylene plastic dropper bottle with a controlled - drop linear low - density polyethylene tip , a pink high - density polyethylene cap , and a white low - density polyethylene tamper - evident overcap in the following size : 2 . 8 mL in a 5 mL bottle ( NDC 71571 - 121 - 28 ) Storage and Handling Do not use if tamper - evident overcap seal is not intact .
The white tamper - evident overcap can be thrown away .
Retain the pink cap and keep the bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Store upright at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Instruct the patient to shake the bottle for one to two seconds before using .
If the patient is using other eye drops in addition to INVELTYS , advise the patient to wait at least 5 minutes between instillation of INVELTYS and other eye drops .
Risk of Contamination Advise patients to wash their hands well before each use .
Advise patients not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
Risk of Secondary Infection Advise the patient to consult a physician if pain develops , or redness , itching , or inflammation becomes aggravated .
Contact Lens Wear Advise patients that the preservative in INVELTYS may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of INVELTYS and may be reinserted after 15 minutes following administration .
Manufactured for : Kala Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Arlington , MA 02476 Marks designated ® are owned by Kala Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Patented .
See www . kalarx . com / patents © 2019 Kala Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Part # 2003R04 Kala ® INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE INVELTYS [ in - vel - tis ] ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % for topical ophthalmic use This Instructions for Use contains information on how to properly administer INVELTYS .
Important Information You Need to Know Before Using INVELTYS • INVELTYS is for use in the eye only .
• Wash your hands before using INVELTYS .
• Do not use if the tamper - evident seal is not intact .
• Do not let the INVELTYS dropper tip touch your eye , fingers , or any other surfaces to avoid contamination or injury to your eye .
• Use INVELTYS exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• If you are using INVELTYS with other eye ( ophthalmic ) medicines , you should wait at least 5 minutes between using INVELTYS and the other medicine .
• If you wear contact lenses , remove them before using INVELTYS .
• Put the pink cap back on INVELTYS after each use .
Before you use INVELTYS for the first time : There are two caps on your bottle of INVELTYS .
Hold the bottle firmly by its neck .
Remove the white cap by twisting it clockwise ( See Figure A ) .
Throw away the white cap .
INVELTYS is now ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Follow Steps 1 to 6 each time you use INVELTYS .
Step 1 .
Wash your hands well .
Step 2 .
Shake the INVELTYS bottle for 1 to 2 seconds ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 3 : Remove the pink cap from the top of the INVELTYS dropper by turning it counterclockwise ( See Figure C ) .
Keep the pink cap .
Do not let the INVELTYS dropper tip touch your eye , fingers , or any other surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 4 : Turn the INVELTYS bottle upside down ( See Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 5 : Tilt your head back .
Hold the bottle directly above your affected eye .
Squeeze the middle of the INVELTYS bottle gently to put 1 to 2 drops ( follow your doctor ' s recommendation ) into the affected eye ( See Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 6 : Place the pink cap back onto the INVELTYS bottle and tighten by turning clockwise ( See Figure F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F If you use contact lenses , wait for 15 minutes before placing them back in .
How should I store INVELTYS ?
• Store INVELTYS upright at 59ºF to 77ºF ( 15ºC to 25ºC ) .
• Do not freeze .
Keep INVELTYS and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Kala Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Arlington , MA 02476 Approved : 3 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 8 mL Bottle Carton NDC 71571 - 121 - 28 Rx Only INVELTYS ® ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % Sterile 2 . 8 mL kala ® PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
