Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each dose ) Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , 17 g ( cap filled to line ) Purpose Osmotic Laxative Use • relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • nausea , vomiting or abdominal pain • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks • irritable bowel syndrome Ask doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug When using this product you may loose , watery , more frequent stools Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding or your nausea , bloating , cramping or abdominal pain gets worse .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
• you get diarrhea • you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line ( clear section in cap ) • adults and children 17 years of age and older : ○ fill to top of clear section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose ( 17 g ) ○ stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage ( cold , hot or room temperature ) then drink ○ use once a day ○ use no more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • tamper - evident : do not use if foil seal under cap , printed with “ SEALED for YOUR PROTECTION ” is missing , open or broken Inactive ingredient none Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 Manufactured & Distributed by : Sunrise Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Rahway , NJ 07065 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 11534 - 180 - 19 Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Solution , Osmotic Laxative • Relieves Occasional Constipation / Irregularity • Softens Stool • Dissolves in Any BeverageUnflavored Powder Grit Free Polyethylene Glycol 3350 increases frequency of bowel movements and softens the stool .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 11534 - 180 - 28 Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Solution , Osmotic Laxative • Relieves Occasional Constipation / Irregularity • Softens Stool • Dissolves in Any BeverageUnflavored Powder Grit Free Polyethylene Glycol 3350 increases frequency of bowel movements and softens the stool .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 11534 - 180 - 50 Polyethylene Glycol 3350 Powder for Solution , Osmotic Laxative • Relieves Occasional Constipation / Irregularity • Softens Stool • Dissolves in Any Beverage • Unflavored Powder Grit Free Polyethylene Glycol 3350 increases frequency of bowel movements and softens the stool .
• [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
