Rx only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) contains mometasone furoate , USP for dermatologic use .
Mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory activity .
Chemically , mometasone furoate is 9α , 21 - dichloro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - ( 2 - furoate ) , with the empirical formula C27H30Cl2O6 , a molecular weight of 521 . 4 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mometasone furoate is a white to off - white powder insoluble in water , freely soluble in acetone and in methylene chloride and sparingly soluble in heptane .
Each gram of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) contains : 1 mg of mometasone furoate , USP in a lotion base of isopropyl alcohol ( 40 % ) , propylene glycol , hydroxypropyl - cellulose , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate and water .
May also contain phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide used to adjust the pH to approximately 4 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , mometasone furoate has anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Studies in humans indicate that approximately 0 . 7 % of the applied dose of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) , enters the circulation after 8 hours of contact on normal skin without occlusion .
A similar minimal degree of absorption of the corticosteroid from the lotion formulation would be anticipated .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
In a study evaluating the effects of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis , 15 mL were applied without occlusion twice daily ( 30 mL per day ) for 7 days to 4 adult patients with scalp and body psoriasis .
At the end of treatment , the plasma cortisol levels for each of the 4 patients remained within the normal range and changed little from baseline .
Sixty - five pediatric patients ages 6 to 23 months , with atopic dermatitis , were enrolled in an open - label , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis safety study .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) was applied once daily for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 40 % ( range 16 % to 90 % ) .
In approximately 29 % of patients who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment , adrenal suppression was observed at the end of treatment with Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) .
The criteria for suppression were : basal cortisol level of ≤ 5 mcg / dL , 30 - minute post - stimulation level of ≤ 18 mcg / dL , or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL .
Follow - up testing 2 to 4 weeks after stopping treatment , available for 8 of the patients , demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in one patient , using these same criteria .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Since safety and efficacy of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) have not been established in pediatric patients below 12 years of age , its use in this age group is not recommended .
( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawl of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
In a study evaluating the effects of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis , 15 mL were applied without occlusion twice daily ( 30 mL per day ) for 7 days to four adult patients with scalp and body psoriasis .
At the end of treatment , the plasma cortisol levels for each of the four patients remained within the normal range and changed little from baseline .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see Prescribing Information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions .
• This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should not be applied in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• This medication should not be used on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) without first consulting with the physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test , AM plasma cortisol test , Urinary free cortisol test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) .
Long - term carcinogenicity studies of mometasone furoate were conducted by the inhalation route in rats and mice .
In a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , mometasone furoate demonstrated no statistically significant increase of tumors at inhalation doses up to 67 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 04 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In a 19 - month carcinogenicity study in Swiss CD - 1 mice , mometasone furoate demonstrated no statistically significant increase in the incidence of tumors at inhalation doses up to 160 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
Mometasone furoate increased chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , but did not increase chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell assay .
Mometasone furoate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or mouse lymphoma assay , and was not clastogenic in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , a rat bone marrow chromosomal aberration assay , or a mouse male germ - cell chromosomal aberration assay .
Mometasone furoate also did not induce unscheduled DNA synthesis in vivo in rat hepatocytes .
In reproductive studies in rats , impairment of fertility was not produced in male or female rats by subcutaneous doses up to 15 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 01 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
When administered to pregnant rats , rabbits , and mice , mometasone furoate increased fetal malformations .
The doses that produced malformations also decreased fetal growth , as measured by lower fetal weights and / or delayed ossification .
Mometasone furoate also caused dystocia and related complications when administered to rats during the end of pregnancy .
In mice , mometasone furoate caused cleft palate at subcutaneous doses of 60 mcg / kg and above .
Fetal survival was reduced at 180 mcg / kg .
No toxicity was observed at 20 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 20 , 60 and 180 mcg / kg in the mouse are approximately 0 . 01 , 0 . 02 and 0 . 05 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In rats , mometasone furoate produced umbilical hernias at topical doses of 600 mcg / kg and above .
A dose of 300 mcg / kg produced delays in ossification , but no malformations .
( Doses of 300 and 600 mcg / kg in the rat are approximately 0 . 2 and 0 . 4 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In rabbits , mometasone furoate caused multiple malformations ( e . g . , flexed front paws , gallbladder agenesis , umbilical hernia , hydrocephaly ) at topical doses of 150 mcg / kg and above ( approximately 0 . 2 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
In an oral study , mometasone furoate increased resorptions and caused cleft palate and / or head malformations ( hydrocephaly and domed head ) at 700 mcg / kg .
At 2800 mcg / kg most litters were aborted or resorbed .
No toxicity was observed at 140 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 140 , 700 and 2800 mcg / kg in the rabbit are approximately 0 . 2 , 0 . 9 and 3 . 6 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
When rats received subcutaneous doses of mometasone furoate throughout pregnancy or during the later stages of pregnancy , 15 mcg / kg caused prolonged and difficult labor and reduced the number of live births , birth weight and early pup survival .
Similar effects were not observed at 7 . 5 mcg / kg .
( Doses of 7 . 5 and 15 mcg / kg in the rat are approximately 0 . 005 and 0 . 01 times the estimated maximum clinical topical dose from Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids in pregnant women .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Since safety and efficacy of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) have not been established in pediatric patients below 12 years of age , its use in this age group is not recommended .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) caused HPA axis suppression in approximately 29 % of pediatric patients ages 6 to 23 months who showed normal adrenal function by Cortrosyn test before starting treatment , and were treated for approximately 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 40 % ( range 16 % to 90 % ) .
The criteria for suppression were : basal cortisol level of ≤ 5 mcg / dL , 30 - minute post - stimulation level of ≤ 18 mcg / dL , or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL .
Follow - up testing 2 to 4 weeks after stopping treatment , available for 8 of the patients , demonstrated suppressed HPA axis function in one patient , using these same criteria .
Long - term use of topical corticosteroids has not been studied in this population .
( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to skin atrophy , including striae , when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients applying topical corticosteroids to greater than 20 % of body surface are at higher risk of HPA axis suppression .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should not be used in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical studies involving 209 patients , the incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) was 3 % .
Reported reactions included acneiform reaction , 2 ; burning , 4 ; and itching , 1 .
In an irritation / sensitization study involving 156 normal subjects , the incidence of folliculitis was 3 % ( 4 subjects ) .
The following adverse reactions were reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) during a clinical study , in 14 % of 65 pediatric patients 6 months to 2 years of age : decreased glucocorticoid levels , 4 ; paresthesia , 2 ; dry mouth , 1 ; an unspecified endocrine disorder , 1 ; pruritus , 1 ; and an unspecified skin disorder , 1 .
The following signs of skin atrophy were also observed among 65 patients treated with Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) in a clinical study : shininess 4 , telangiectasia 2 , loss of elasticity 2 , and loss of normal skin markings 3 .
Striae , thinness and bruising were not observed in this study .
The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : irritation , dryness , hypertrichosis , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a few drops of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) to the affected areas once daily and massage lightly until it disappears .
For the most effective and economical use , hold nozzle of the bottle very close to the affected areas and gently squeeze .
Since safety and efficacy of Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) have not been established in pediatric patients below 12 years of age , its use in this age group is not recommended .
( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) should not be applied in the diaper area if the patient requires diapers or plastic pants as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
HOW SUPPLIED Mometasone Furoate Lotion ( Mometasone Furoate Topical Solution USP 0 . 1 % ) is supplied in : 30 mL ( 27 . 5 g ) NDC 54868 - 3757 - 1 60 mL ( 55 g ) NDC 54868 - 3757 - 0 Store between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° and 86 ° F ) .
January 2008 E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
Melville .
NEW YORK 11747 I2272A - R1 / 08 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 mL CARTON Fougera ® MOMETASONE FUROATE LOTION ( MOMETASONE FUROATE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP 0 . 1 % ) FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only 60 mL DO NOT USE IN EYES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
