Drug Facts Active ingredient Butenafine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot between the toes .
Effectiveness on the bottom or sides of foot is unknown .
• cures most jock itch and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , and scaling which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or the eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or irritation gets worse Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and older : • use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube • wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying • for athlete ' s foot between the toes : apply to affected skin between and around the toes twice a day for 1 week ( morning and night ) , or once a day for 4 weeks , or as directed by a doctor .
Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
Apply between and around the toes [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 week twice a day or 4 weeks once a day • for jock itch and ringworm : apply once a day to affected skin for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor .
• wash hands after each use • children under 12 years : ask a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • do not use if seal on tube is broken or not visible • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Glyceryl Monostearate SE , Polyoxyethylene ( 23 ) Cetyl Ether , Propylene Glycol Dicaprylate , Purified Water , Sodium Benzoate , Stearic Acid , Trolamine , White Petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 DISTRIBUTED BY : Walmart Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 g Tube Carton NDC 49035 - 225 - 08 equate ™ Compare to Lotrimin Ultra ® Active Ingredient * CONTAINS THE DRUG : BUTENAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE Athlete ' s Foot ULTRA Butenafine Hydrochloride Cream 1 % Antifungal Prescription Strength 1 Week Treatment Option For Athlete ' s Foot See Directions Clinically Proven To Cure Most Athlete ' s Foot Between The Toes • Relieves Itching , Burning And Cracking NET WT 0 . 42 OZ ( 12 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
