chlorpheniramine maleate , acetaminophen , pseudoephedrine hydrochloride , cloperastin hydrochloride , lysozyme hydrochloride , guaifenesin , thiamine nitrate , riboflavin , platycodon 50 % ethanol dried extract , cinnamon dried extract , glycyrrhize dried extract povidone , light anhydrous silicic acid , magnesium stearate - temporarily relieves these cold symptomes runny nose , nasal congestion , sneezing , sore throat , cough , sputum , headache , minor aches and pain - temporarily reduces fever keep out of reach of the children Adults and children 15 years or over : take 2 capsules after meal 3 times a day Children between 8 and 14 years : take 1 capsule after meal 3 times a day [ DO NOT USE ] if you are hypersensitive to this drug and any component of this drug if you have a history of asthma after taking this drug , other cold drugs or antipyreticanalgesics in infants under 3 months of age if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug with antitussive expectorants , other cold medicines , antipyretic - analgesics , sedatives , antihistamines ( certain drugs for rhinitis , preventive drugs for travel sickness , allergies ) [ ASK A DOCTOR OR PHARMACIST BEFORE USE ] in infants or children under 15 years infected with chickenpox or influenza in infants under 2 years of age only when it is necessary .
Inform to the guardian / s and monitor closely while administering if you are genetically prone to uticaria , contact dermatitis , bronchial asthma , allergic rhinitis , migraine , food allergy If you have allergic reactions ( e . g . , fever , rash , arthralgia , asthma , itch , etc . ) to this drug and any component of this drug if you have liver disease , kidney disease , heart disease , thyroid disease , diabetes , high blood pressure , edema , stomach - duodenal ulcer , glaucoma , dysuria , high fever if you are elderly or week if you have bleeding , ache and discomfort in stomach If ( possibly ) pregnant or breast - feeding If you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes , goat , arthritis , anticoagulants and steroids if you have cough by smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , emphysema , cough accompanied with excessive sputum , fever , rash , persistent headache and cough lasting more than 1 week , recurrent cough or chronic cough [ STOP USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF ] you experience any of the following symptoms : rash , redness , itching , nausea , vomiting , loss of appetite , constipation , edema , dysuria , severe or persistent thirst , dizziness , anxiety , shivering , insomnia you experience any of the following severe symptoms : anaphylaxis ( e . g . , immediate rash , edema , shortness of breath along with paling of face , cold sweat , cold hands and feet ) Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( mucocutaneous syndrome ) or Lyell syndrome ( toxic epidermal necrosis ) ( e . g . , rash and redness accompanied with high fever , blisters as in burn over the body or mucous membranes of mouth or eyes ) asthma liver dysfunction ( e . g . , drowsiness , jaundice ) interstitial pneumonia ( e . g . , shortness of breath , fever accompanied with cough ) aldosteronism : long - term continuous use of preparations containing over than 1 g as licorice ( daily maximum dose ) may cause hypokalemia , increased blood pressure , fluid retention of sodium , edema , weight gain , aldosteronism .
Observe closely ( blood potassium concentration ) and stop taking this drug and when you have above symptoms .
myopathy may rarely occur as a result of hypokalemia .
Observe closely and stop taking this drug when you appear symptoms such as weakness , limb spasms , and numbness .
[ WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT ] do not exceed recommended dosage do not take for a long period of time administer to children under the guidance and supervision of a guardian avoid alcoholic drinks do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery barbiturates , tricyclic antidepressants , and alcohol may reduce the ability to metabolize large quantities of acetaminophen , thereby increasing the plasma half - life of acetaminophen myopathy may occur due to aldosteronism or hypokalemia when administered with drugs containing potassium , licorice , glycyrrhizin acid or its salts , loop diuretics ( furosemide , ethacrynic acid ) or thiazide diuretic ( trichlormethiazide ) .
for oral administration [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
