Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 . 0 % .................................. Oral pain reliever Menthol 0 . 25 % ....................................... Oral pain reliever Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % .................... Antiseptic Uses for the temporary relief of pain due to toothaches to help protect against infection of minor oral irritation Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics When using this product • do not use more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling rash or fever developes • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tubne on score mark • adults and children 2 years of age and older ; apply a small amount of product to the cavity and arround the gum surrounding the teeth • use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under 2 years of age : ask a dentist or doctor .
Other Information • do not use if tip is cut prior to opening • this preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted • do not use continuously • this formula will stay in place for an extended duration of relief • avoid using toothpaste or drinking softdrinks or fruit juices for at least one hour after applying Inactive ingredients Cellulose Gum , Gelatin , Methyl Salicylate , Mineral Oil , Pectin , Petrolatum , Polyethylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affect4ed area using applicator tip use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under 2 years of age : ask a dentist or doctor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
