Drug Facts Active ingredient Pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Local Anesthetic Use for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with hemorrhoids Warnings Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a physician .
If condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days , consult a physician .
In case of rectal bleeding , consult a physician promptly .
Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Do not insert any part of the aerosol container into the rectum .
Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to the ingredients in this product .
If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place cap on container .
Shake well before use .
• Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
• Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of proctofoam ® .
• Dispense proctofoam ® onto a clean tissue and apply externally to the affected area up to 5 times daily .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other information • Store upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
• Do not refrigerate .
• Contents of the container are under pressure .
Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container .
• Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate and PEG - 100 stearate blend , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene 23 lauryl ether , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , trolamine and inert propellants : isobutane and propane .
Questions ?
1 - 888 - 317 - 0001 ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC Marietta , GA 30067 , USA Rev . 08 / 08 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Carton NDC 54868 - 5865 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] STORE UPRIGHT proctofoam ® non - steroid ( pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) hemorrhoidal foam For temporary relief of hemorrhoidal pain and itching For External Use Only 15 g net wt ( 0 . 53 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
