1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE STENDRA is a phosphodiesterase 5 ( PDE5 ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult males .
STENDRA is a phosphodiesterase 5 ( PDE5 ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The starting dose is 100 mg taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity , on an as needed basis ( 2 . 1 ) • Take STENDRA no more than once a day ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Based on efficacy and / or tolerability , the dose may be increased to 200 mg taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity , or decreased to 50 mg taken approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity .
Use the lowest dose that provides benefit ( 2 . 1 ) .
• STENDRA may be taken with or without food ( 2 . 2 ) • Do not use STENDRA with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2 . 3 ) • If taking a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor , the dose should be no more than 50 mg in a 24 - hour period ( 2 . 3 ) .
• In patients on stable alpha - blocker therapy , the recommended starting dose of STENDRA is 50 mg ( 2 . 3 ) .
2 . 1 Erectile Dysfunction The recommended starting dose is 100 mg .
STENDRA should be taken orally as needed as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity .
Based on individual efficacy and tolerability , the dose may be increased to 200 mg taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity , or decreased to 50 mg taken approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity .
The lowest dose that provides benefit should be used .
The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day .
Sexual stimulation is required for a response to treatment .
2 . 2 Use with Food STENDRA may be taken with or without food .
2 . 3 Concomitant Medications Nitrates Concomitant use of nitrates in any form is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
Alpha - Blockers If STENDRA is co - administered with an alpha - blocker , patients should be stable on alpha - blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment with STENDRA , and STENDRA should be initiated at the 50 mg dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors • For patients taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( including ketoconazole , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir and telithromycin ) , do not use STENDRA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• For patients taking concomitant moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( including erythromycin , amprenavir , aprepitant , diltiazem , fluconazole , fosamprenavir , and verapamil ) , the maximum recommended dose of STENDRA is 50 mg , not to exceed once every 24 hours [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS STENDRA ( avanafil ) is supplied as oval , pale yellow tablets containing 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg avanafil debossed with dosage strength .
Tablets : 50 mg , 100 mg , 200 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of STENDRA to patients using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated ( 4 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to any component of the STENDRA tablet ( 4 . 2 ) • Administration with guanylate cyclase ( GC ) stimulators such as riociguat and vericiguat ( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Nitrates Administration of STENDRA with any form of organic nitrates , either regularly and / or intermittently , is contraindicated .
Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide / cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) pathway , STENDRA has been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates .
In a patient who has taken STENDRA , where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life - threatening situation , at least 12 hours should elapse after the last dose of STENDRA before nitrate administration is considered .
In such circumstances , nitrates should only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions STENDRA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the tablet .
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , including pruritis and eyelid swelling .
4 . 3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase ( GC ) Stimulators Do not use STENDRA in patients who are using a GC stimulator , such as riociguat or vericiguat .
PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Evaluation of erectile dysfunction ( ED ) should include an appropriate medical assessment to identify potential underlying causes , as well as treatment options .
Before prescribing STENDRA , it is important to note the following : • Patients should not use STENDRA if sexual activity is inadvisable due to cardiovascular status or any other reason ( 5 . 1 ) • Use of STENDRA with alpha - blockers , other antihypertensives , or substantial amounts of alcohol ( greater than 3 units ) may lead to hypotension ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 ) • Patients should seek emergency treatment if an erection lasts greater than 4 hours ( 5 . 3 ) • Patients should stop STENDRA and seek medical care if a sudden loss of vision occurs in one or both eyes , which could be a sign of Non Arteritic Ischemic Optic Neuropathy ( NAION ) .
STENDRA should be used with caution , and only when the anticipated benefits outweigh the risks , in patients with a history of NAION .
Patients with a “ crowded ” optic disc may also be at an increased risk of NAION ( 5 . 4 , 6 . 2 ) • Patients should stop taking STENDRA and seek prompt medical attention in the event of sudden decrease or loss of hearing ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Risks There is a potential for cardiac risk during sexual activity in patients with pre - existing cardiovascular disease .
Therefore , treatments for ED , including STENDRA , should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable because of their underlying cardiovascular status .
Patients with left ventricular outflow obstruction ( e . g . , aortic stenosis , idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis ) and those with severely impaired autonomic control of blood pressure can be particularly sensitive to the actions of vasodilators , including STENDRA .
The following groups of patients were not included in clinical safety and efficacy trials for STENDRA , and therefore until further information is available , STENDRA is not recommended for the following groups : • Patients who have suffered a myocardial infarction , stroke , life - threatening arrhythmia , or coronary revascularization within the last 6 months ; • Patients with resting hypotension ( blood pressure less than 90 / 50 mmHg ) or hypertension ( blood pressure greater than 170 / 100 mmHg ) ; • Patients with unstable angina , angina with sexual intercourse , or New York Heart Association Class 2 or greater congestive heart failure .
As with other PDE5 inhibitors STENDRA has systemic vasodilatory properties and may augment the blood pressure - lowering effect of other anti - hypertensive medications .
STENDRA 200 mg resulted in transient decreases in sitting blood pressure in healthy volunteers of 8 . 0 mmHg systolic and 3 . 3 mmHg diastolic [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , with the maximum decrease observed at 1 hour after dosing .
While this normally would be expected to be of little consequence in most patients , prior to prescribing STENDRA , physicians should carefully consider whether patients with underlying cardiovascular disease could be affected adversely by such vasodilatory effects , especially in combination with sexual activity .
5 . 2 Concomitant Use of CYP3A4 Inhibitors STENDRA metabolism is principally mediated by the CYP450 isoform 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 may reduce STENDRA clearance and increase plasma concentrations of avanafil .
For patients taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( including ketoconazole , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir and telithromycin ) , do not use STENDRA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
For patients taking concomitant moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( including erythromycin , amprenavir , aprepitant , diltiazem , fluconazole , fosamprenavir , and verapamil ) , the maximum recommended dose of STENDRA is 50 mg , not to exceed once every 24 hours [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Prolonged Erection Prolonged erection greater than 4 hours and priapism ( painful erections greater than 6 hours in duration ) have been reported with other PDE5 inhibitors .
In the event of an erection that persists longer than 4 hours , the patient should seek immediate medical assistance .
If not treated immediately , penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency could result .
STENDRA should be used with caution in patients with anatomical deformation of the penis ( such as angulation , cavernosal fibrosis , or Peyronie ’ s disease ) , or in patients who have conditions which may predispose them to priapism ( such as sickle cell anemia , multiple myeloma , or leukemia ) .
5 . 4 Effects on Eye Physicians should advise patients to stop use of all PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA and seek medical attention in the event of a sudden loss of vision in one or both eyes .
Such an event may be a sign of non - arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ( NAION ) , a rare condition and a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision that has been reported rarely postmarketing in temporal association with the use of all PDE5 inhibitors .
Based on published literature , the annual incidence of NAION is 2 . 5 - 11 . 8 cases per 100 , 000 in males aged ≥ 50 .
An observational case - crossover study evaluated the risk of NAION when PDE5 inhibitor use , as a class , occurred immediately before NAION onset ( within 5 half - lives ) , compared to PDE5 inhibitor use in a prior time period .
The results suggest an approximate 2 - fold increase in the risk of NAION , with a risk estimate of 2 . 15 ( 95 % CI 1 . 06 , 4 . 34 ) .
A similar study reported a consistent result , with a risk estimate of 2 . 27 ( 95 % CI 0 . 99 , 5 . 20 ) .
Other risk factors for NAION , such as the presence of “ crowded ” optic disc , may have contributed to the occurrence of NAION in these studies .
Neither the rare postmarketing reports , nor the association of PDE5 inhibitor use and NAION in the observational studies , substantiate a causal relationship between PDE5 inhibitor use and NAION [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Physicians should consider whether their patients with underlying NAION risk factors could be adversely affected by use of PDE5 inhibitors .
Individuals who have already experienced NAION are at increased risk of NAION recurrence .
Therefore , PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA should be used with caution in these patients and only when the anticipated benefits outweigh the risks .
Individuals with “ crowded ” optic disc are also considered at greater risk for NAION compared to the general population ; however , evidence is insufficient to support screening of prospective users of PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , for this uncommon condition .
Patients with known hereditary degenerative retinal disorders , including retinitis pigmentosa , were not included in the clinical trials for STENDRA , and therefore , until further information is available , STENDRA is not recommended for use in these patients .
5 . 5 Sudden Hearing Loss Use of PDE5 inhibitors has been associated with sudden decrease or loss of hearing , which may be accompanied by tinnitus or dizziness .
It is not possible to determine whether these events are related directly to the use of PDE5 inhibitors or to other factors [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Patients experiencing these symptoms should be advised to stop taking STENDRA and seek prompt medical attention .
5 . 6 Alpha - Blockers and Other Antihypertensives Physicians should discuss with patients the potential for STENDRA to augment the blood pressure - lowering effect of alpha - blockers and other antihypertensive medications [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Caution is advised when PDE5 inhibitors are co - administered with alpha - blockers .
Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , and alpha - adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood pressure - lowering effects .
When vasodilators are used in combination , an additive effect on blood pressure may be anticipated .
In some patients , concomitant use of these two drug classes can lower blood pressure significantly leading to symptomatic hypotension ( e . g . , dizziness , lightheadedness , fainting ) .
Consideration should be given to the following : • Patients should be stable on alpha - blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment with a PDE5 inhibitor .
Patients who demonstrate hemodynamic instability on alpha - blocker therapy alone are at increased risk of symptomatic hypotension with concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors .
• In those patients who are stable on alpha - blocker therapy , PDE5 inhibitors should be initiated at the lowest dose ( STENDRA 50 mg ) .
• In those patients already taking an optimized dose of a PDE5 inhibitor , alpha - blocker therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose .
Stepwise increase in alpha - blocker dose may be associated with further lowering of blood pressure when taking a PDE5 inhibitor .
Safety of combined use of PDE5 inhibitors and alpha - blockers may be affected by other variables , including intravascular volume depletion and other anti - hypertensive drugs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Alcohol Patients should be made aware that both alcohol and PDE5 inhibitors including STENDRA act as vasodilators .
When vasodilators are taken in combination , blood - pressure - lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased .
Therefore , physicians should inform patients that substantial consumption of alcohol ( e . g . , greater than 3 units ) in combination with STENDRA may increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms , including increase in heart rate , decrease in standing blood pressure , dizziness , and headache [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Combination with Other PDE5 Inhibitors or Erectile Dysfunction Therapies The safety and efficacy of combinations of STENDRA with other treatments for ED has not been studied .
Therefore , the use of such combinations is not recommended .
5 . 9 Effects on Bleeding The safety of STENDRA is unknown in patients with bleeding disorders and patients with active peptic ulceration .
In vitro studies with human platelets indicate that STENDRA potentiates the anti - aggregatory effect of sodium nitroprusside ( a nitric oxide [ NO ] donor ) .
5 . 10 Counseling Patients about Sexually Transmitted Diseases The use of STENDRA offers no protection against sexually transmitted diseases .
Counseling patients about the protective measures necessary to guard against sexually transmitted diseases , including Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) , should be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) include headache , flushing , nasal congestion , nasopharyngitis , and back pain ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact 844 . 458 . 4887 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
STENDRA was administered to 2215 men during clinical trials .
In trials of STENDRA for use as needed , a total of 493 patients were exposed for greater than or equal to 6 months , and 153 patients were treated for greater than or equal to 12 months .
In three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials lasting up to 3 months in duration , the mean age of patients was 56 . 4 years ( range from 23 to 88 years ) .
83 . 9 % of patients were White , 13 . 8 % were Black , 1 . 4 % Asian , and < 1 % Hispanic .
41 . 1 % were current or previous smokers .
30 . 6 % had diabetes mellitus .
The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions for patients treated with STENDRA 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg was 1 . 4 % , 2 . 0 % , and 2 . 0 % , respectively , compared to 1 . 7 % for placebo - treated patients .
Table 1 presents the adverse reactions reported when STENDRA was taken as recommended ( on an as - needed basis ) from these 3 clinical trials .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported by Greater Than or Equal to 2 % of Patients Treated with STENDRA From 3 Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials Lasting 3 Months for STENDRA Use as NeededAdverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 349 ) STENDRA 50 mg ( N = 217 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 349 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 352 ) Headache 1 . 7 % 5 . 1 % 6 . 9 % 10 . 5 % Flushing 0 . 0 % 3 . 2 % 4 . 3 % 4 . 0 % Nasal congestion 1 . 1 % 1 . 8 % 2 . 9 % 2 . 0 % Nasopharyngitis 2 . 9 % 0 . 9 % 2 . 6 % 3 . 4 % Back pain 1 . 1 % 3 . 2 % 2 . 0 % 1 . 1 % Adverse reactions reported by greater than or equal to 1 % , but less than 2 % of patients in any STENDRA dose group , and greater than placebo included : upper respiratory infection ( URI ) , bronchitis , influenza , sinusitis , sinus congestion , hypertension , dyspepsia , nausea , constipation , and rash .
In an open - label , long - term extension study of two of these randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials , the total duration of treatment was up to 52 weeks .
Among the 712 patients who participated in this open - label extension study , the mean age of the population was 56 . 4 years ( range from 23 to 88 years ) .
The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions for patients treated with STENDRA ( 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg ) was 2 . 8 % .
In this extension trial , all eligible patients were initially assigned to STENDRA 100 mg .
At any point during the trial , patients could request to have their dose of STENDRA increased to 200 mg or decreased to 50 mg based on their individual response to treatment .
In total , 536 ( approximately 75 % ) patients increased their dose to 200 mg and 5 ( less than 1 % ) patients reduced their dose to 50 mg .
Table 2 presents the adverse reactions reported when STENDRA was taken as recommended ( on an as - needed basis ) in this open - label extension trial .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Reported by Greater Than or Equal to 2 % of Patients Treated With STENDRA in an Open - Label Extension TrialAdverse Reaction STENDRA ( N = 711 ) Headache 5 . 6 % Flushing 3 . 5 % Nasopharyngitis 3 . 4 % Nasal congestion 2 . 1 % Adverse reactions reported by greater than or equal to 1 % , but less than 2 % of patients in the open - label extension study included : upper respiratory infection ( URI ) , influenza , sinusitis , bronchitis , dizziness , back pain , arthralgia , hypertension , and diarrhea .
The following events occurred in less than 1 % of patients in the three placebo - controlled 3 - month clinical trials and / or the open - label , long - term extension study lasting 12 months .
A causal relationship to STENDRA is uncertain .
Excluded from this list are those events that were minor , those with no plausible relation to drug use and reports too imprecise to be meaningful .
Body as a whole — edema peripheral , fatigue Cardiovascular — angina , unstable angina , deep vein thrombosis , palpitations Digestive — gastritis , gastroesophageal reflux disease , hypoglycemia , blood glucose increased , alanine aminotransferase increased , oropharyngeal pain , stomach discomfort , vomiting Musculoskeletal — muscle spasms , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia , pain in extremity Nervous — depression , insomnia , somnolence , vertigo Respiratory — cough , dyspnea exertional , epistaxis , wheezing Skin and Appendages — pruritus Urogenital — balanitis , erection increased , hematuria , nephrolithiasis , pollakiuria , urinary tract infection In an additional , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study lasting up to 3 months in 298 men who had undergone bilateral nerve - sparing radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer , the mean age of patients was 58 . 4 years ( range 40 – 70 ) .
Table 3 presents the adverse reactions reported in this additional study .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Reported by Greater than or Equal to 2 % of Patients Treated with STENDRA in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trial Lasting 3 Months in Patients Who Underwent Bilateral Nerve - Sparing Radical Prostatectomy ( Study 3 ) Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 100 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 99 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 99 ) Headache 1 . 0 % 8 . 1 % 12 . 1 % Flushing 0 . 0 % 5 . 1 % 10 . 1 % Nasopharyngitis 0 . 0 % 3 . 0 % 5 . 1 % Upper respiratory infection 0 . 0 % 2 . 0 % 3 . 0 % Nasal congestion 1 . 0 % 3 . 0 % 1 . 0 % Back pain 1 . 0 % 3 . 0 % 2 . 0 % Electrocardiogram abnormal 0 . 0 % 1 . 0 % 3 . 0 % Dizziness 0 . 0 % 1 . 0 % 2 . 0 % A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 2 months study was conducted in 435 subjects with a mean age of 58 . 2 years ( range 24 to 86 years ) to determine the time to onset of effect of STENDRA , defined as the time to the first occurrence of an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse .
Table 4 presents the adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of subjects treated with STENDRA .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with STENDRA in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trial Lasting 2 Months to Determine the Time to Onset of Effect ( Study 4 ) Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 143 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 146 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 146 ) Headache 0 . 7 % 1 . 4 % 8 . 9 % Nasal congestion 0 . 0 % 0 . 7 % 4 . 1 % Gastroenteritis viral 0 . 0 % 0 . 0 % 2 . 1 % Across all trials with any STENDRA dose , 1 subject reported a change in color vision .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of STENDRA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been chosen for inclusion either due to their seriousness , reporting frequency , lack of clear alternative causation , or a combination of these factors .
Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular : Serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events , including myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death , cerebrovascular accident , and subarachnoid hemorrhage , have been reported post - marketing in temporal association with the use of STENDRA .
All of these patients had preexisting cardiovascular risk factors .
The occurrence of sexual activity was not stated in the majority of reports , although events were reported to occur both with and without sexual activity .
It is not possible to determine whether these events are related directly to STENDRA , to sexual activity , to the patient ’ s underlying cardiovascular disease , to a combination of these factors , or to other factors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 2 ) ] .
Nervous : transient global amnesia Special senses : Ophthalmologic : vitreous detachment , visual impairment Non - arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ( NAION ) , a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision , has been reported rarely post - marketing in temporal association with the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 ) inhibitors , such as STENDRA .
Most , but not all , of these patients had underlying anatomic or vascular risk factors for developing NAION , including but not necessarily limited to : low cup to disc ratio ( “ crowded disc ” ) , age over 50 , diabetes , hypertension , coronary artery disease , hyperlipidemia and smoking [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Otologic : Cases of sudden decrease or loss of hearing have been reported postmarketing in temporal association with the use of PDE5 inhibitors , such as STENDRA .
In some of the cases , medical conditions and other factors were reported that may have also played a role in the otologic adverse events .
In many cases , medical follow - up information was limited .
It is not possible to determine whether these reported events are related directly to the use of PDE5 inhibitors such as STENDRA , to the patient ’ s underlying risk factors for hearing loss , a combination of these factors , or to other factors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 6 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • STENDRA can potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates , alpha - blockers , antihypertensives , and alcohol ( 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , ritonavir , erythromycin ) increase STENDRA exposure ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential for Pharmacodynamic Interactions with STENDRA Nitrates Administration of STENDRA to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate , is contraindicated .
In a clinical pharmacology trial , STENDRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates .
In a patient who has taken STENDRA , where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life - threatening situation , at least 12 hours should elapse after the last dose of STENDRA before nitrate administration is considered .
In such circumstances , nitrates should only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Alpha - Blockers Caution is advised when PDE5 inhibitors are co - administered with alpha - blockers .
PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , and alpha - adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood pressure - lowering effects .
When vasodilators are used in combination , an additive effect on blood pressure may be anticipated .
In some patients , concomitant use of these two drug classes can lower blood pressure significantly leading to symptomatic hypotension ( e . g . , dizziness , lightheadedness , fainting ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Antihypertensives PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , are mild systemic vasodilators .
A clinical pharmacology trial was conducted to assess the effect of STENDRA on the potentiation of the blood pressure - lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medications ( amlodipine and enalapril ) .
Additional reductions in blood pressure of 3 to 5 mmHg occurred following co - administration of a single 200 mg dose of STENDRA with these agents compared with placebo [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Alcohol Both alcohol and PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , act as vasodilators .
When vasodilators are taken in combination , blood pressure - lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased .
Substantial consumption of alcohol ( e . g . , greater than 3 units ) in combination with STENDRA can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms , including increase in heart rate , decrease in standing blood pressure , dizziness , and headache [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect STENDRA STENDRA is a substrate of and predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Studies have shown that drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 can increase avanafil exposure .
Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole ( 400 mg daily ) , a selective and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 , increased STENDRA 50 mg single - dose systemic exposure ( AUC ) and maximum concentration ( Cmax ) equal to 13 - fold and 3 - fold , respectively , and prolonged the half - life of avanafil to approximately 9 hours .
Other potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , itraconazole , clarithromycin , nefazadone , ritonavir , saquinavir , nelfinavir , indinavir , atanazavir and telithromycin ) would be expected to have similar effects .
Do not use STENDRA in patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
HIV Protease inhibitor — Ritonavir ( 600 mg twice daily ) , a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , which also inhibits CYP2C9 , increased STENDRA 50 mg single - dose Cmax and AUC equal to approximately 2 - fold and 13 - fold , and prolonged the half - life of avanafil to approximately 9 hours in healthy volunteers .
Do not use STENDRA in patients taking ritonavir .
Moderate CYP 3A4 Inhibitors Erythromycin ( 500 mg twice daily ) increased STENDRA 200 mg single - dose Cmax and AUC equal to approximately 2 - fold and 3 - fold , respectively , and prolonged the half - life of avanafil to approximately 8 hours in healthy volunteers .
Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , erythromycin , amprenavir , aprepitant , diltiazem , fluconazole , fosamprenavir , and verapamil ) would be expected to have similar effects .
Consequently , the maximum recommended dose of STENDRA is 50 mg , not to exceed once every 24 hours for patients taking concomitant moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Although specific interactions have not been studied , other CYP3A4 inhibitors , including grapefruit juice are likely to increase avanafil exposure .
Weak CYP3A4 Inhibitors No in vivo drug - drug interaction studies with weak CYP3A4 inhibitors were conducted .
CYP3A4 Substrate When administered with STENDRA 200 mg , amlodipine ( 5 mg daily ) increased the Cmax and AUC of avanafil by approximately 22 % and 70 % , respectively .
The half - life of STENDRA was prolonged to approximately 10 hrs .
The Cmax and AUC of amlodipine decreased by approximately 9 % and 4 % , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Cytochrome P450 Inducers The potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil was not evaluated .
The concomitant use of STENDRA and CYP inducers is not recommended .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Do not use in patients with severe renal impairment ( 8 . 6 ) • Do not use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary STENDRA is not indicated for use in females .
There are no data with the use of STENDRA in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks for adverse developmental outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies conducted in pregnant rats and rabbits , no adverse developmental outcomes were observed with oral administration of avanafil during organogenesis at exposures for total avanafil at approximately 8 and 6 times , respectively , the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) of 200 mg based on AUC ( see Data ) .
Data Animal Data In pregnant rats administered orally at 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day from gestation days 6 to 17 , no evidence of teratogenicity , embryotoxicity , or fetotoxicity was observed at up to 300 mg / kg / day .
This dose is equivalent to exposures of approximately 8 times the exposure at the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) of 200 mg based on AUCs for total avanafil .
At the maternally toxic dose ( 1000 mg / kg / day ) , decreased fetal body weight occurred with no signs of teratogenicity .
In pregnant rabbits administered orally at 30 , 60 , 120 , or 240 mg / kg / day from gestation days 6 to 18 , no teratogenicity was observed at exposures up to approximately 6 times the human exposure at the MRHD based on AUCs for total avanafil .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in rats given orally at 100 , 300 , or 600 mg / kg / day on gestation days 6 through lactation day 20 , offspring growth and maturation were reduced when maternal rats were given avanafil doses greater than or equal to 300 mg / kg / day , resulting in exposures greater than or equal to 17 times the human exposure to total avanafil at the MRHD .
There was no effect on reproductive performance of the maternal rats or offspring , or on the behavior of the offspring at up to the highest dose tested .
The no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) for developmental toxicity ( 100 mg / kg / day ) was observed at exposures to total avanafil approximately 2 - fold greater than the systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary STENDRA is not indicated for use in females .
There is no information on the presence of avanafil and / or its metabolites in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility There have been no studies evaluating the effect of STENDRA on fertility in men [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] Based on studies in animals , decreased fertility , abnormal sperm motility and morphology , and altered estrous cycles were observed in rats .
The abnormal sperm findings were reversible at the end of a 9 - week drug - free period [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use STENDRA is not indicated for use in pediatric patients .
Safety and efficacy in patients below the age of 18 years has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of avanafil , approximately 23 % were 65 and over .
No overall differences in efficacy and safety were observed between subjects over 65 years of age compared to younger subjects ; therefore , no dose adjustment is warranted based on age alone .
However , a greater sensitivity to medication in some older individuals should be considered [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In a clinical pharmacology trial using single 200 mg doses of STENDRA , avanafil exposure ( AUC or Cmax ) in normal subjects was comparable to patients with mild ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 60 to less than 90 mL / min ) or moderate ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 30 to less than 60 mL / min ) renal impairment .
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 30 to less than 90 mL / min ) .
The pharmacokinetics of avanafil in patients with severe renal disease or on renal dialysis has not been studied ; do not use STENDRA in such patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment In a clinical pharmacology trial , avanafil AUC and Cmax in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) was comparable to that in healthy subjects when a dose of 200 mg was administered .
Avanafil Cmax was approximately 51 % lower and AUC was 11 % higher in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class B ) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh Class A or B ) .
The pharmacokinetics of avanafil in patients with severe hepatic disease has not been studied ; do not use STENDRA in such patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Single doses up to 800 mg have been given to healthy subjects , and multiple doses up to 300 mg have been given to patients .
In cases of overdose , standard supportive measures should be adopted as required .
Renal dialysis is not expected to accelerate clearance because avanafil is highly bound to plasma proteins and is not significantly eliminated in the urine .
11 DESCRIPTION STENDRA ( avanafil ) is a selective inhibitor of cGMP - specific PDE5 .
Avanafil is designated chemically as ( S ) - 4 - [ ( 3 - Chloro - 4 - methoxybenzyl ) amino ] - 2 - [ 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 - pyrrolidinyl ] - N - ( 2 - pyrimidinylmethyl ) - 5 - pyrimidinecarboxamide and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Avanafil occurs as white crystalline powder , molecular formula C23H26ClN7O3 and molecular weight of 483 . 95 and is slightly soluble in ethanol , practically insoluble in water , soluble in 0 . 1 mol / L hydrochloric acid .
STENDRA , for oral administration , is supplied as oval , pale yellow tablets containing 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg avanafil debossed with dosage strengths .
In addition to the active ingredient , avanafil , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , fumaric acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , low substituted hydroxypropylcellulose , calcium carbonate , magnesium stearate , and ferric oxide yellow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The physiologic mechanism of erection of the penis involves release of nitric oxide ( NO ) in the corpus cavernosum during sexual stimulation .
NO then activates the enzyme guanylate cyclase , which results in increased levels of cGMP , producing smooth muscle relaxation in the corpus cavernosum and allowing inflow of blood .
Avanafil has no direct relaxant effect on isolated human corpus cavernosum , but enhances the effect of NO by inhibiting PDE5 , which is responsible for degradation of cGMP in the corpus cavernosum .
Because sexual stimulation is required to initiate the local release of nitric oxide , the inhibition of PDE5 has no effect in the absence of sexual stimulation .
Studies in vitro have shown that avanafil is selective for PDE5 .
Its effect is more potent on PDE5 than on other known phosphodiesterases ( greater than 100 - fold for PDE6 ; greater than 1 , 000 - fold for PDE4 , PDE8 and PDE10 ; greater than 5 , 000 - fold for PDE2 and PDE7 ; greater than 10 , 000 - fold for PDE1 , PDE3 , PDE9 , and PDE11 ) .
Avanafil is greater than 100 - fold more potent for PDE5 than PDE6 , which is found in the retina and is responsible for phototransduction .
In addition to human corpus cavernosum smooth muscle , PDE5 is also found in other tissues including platelets , vascular and visceral smooth muscle , and skeletal muscle , brain , heart , liver , kidney , lung , pancreas , prostate , bladder , testis , and seminal vesicle .
The inhibition of PDE5 in these tissues by avanafil may be the basis for the enhanced platelet anti - aggregatory activity of NO observed in vitro and peripheral vasodilatation in vivo .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effects of STENDRA on Erectile Response In a single - blind , placebo - controlled , single - dose trial of 82 patients with either organic and / or psychogenic ED , visual sexual stimulation resulted in improved erections after STENDRA administration compared to placebo , as assessed by an objective measurement of hardness and duration of erections ( RigiScan ® ) .
Efficacy was assessed by RigiScan at discrete time intervals ranging from 20 – 40 minutes after dosing to 100 – 120 minutes after dosing .
Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure Single oral doses of STENDRA ( 200 mg ) administered to healthy male volunteers resulted in mean changes from baseline in systolic / diastolic blood pressure of - 5 . 3 / - 3 . 7 mmHg at 1 hour after dosing , compared to mean changes from baseline in the placebo group of 2 . 7 / - 0 . 4 mmHg .
The reductions in systolic / diastolic blood pressure at 1 hour after dosing of STENDRA 200 mg compared to placebo were 8 . 0 / 3 . 3 mmHg .
Figure 1 : Median Change from Baseline in Sitting Systolic Blood Pressure , Healthy Volunteers Day 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of single 100 or 800 mg doses of STENDRA on the QT interval were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo , and active ( moxifloxacin ) – controlled crossover study in 52 healthy male subjects aged 18 to 45 years .
There were no significant effects of the 100 mg dose .
The mean QTc ( Fridericia QT correction ) for avanafil 800 mg , relative to placebo was 9 . 4 milliseconds ( two - sided 90 % CI = 7 . 2 , 11 . 6 ) .
An 800 mg dose of STENDRA ( 4 times the highest recommended dose ) was chosen because this dose yields exposures greater than those observed upon co - administration of avanafil with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors .
A double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin ) , thorough QT / QTc trial of STENDRA ( 100 and 800 mg ) in healthy male subjects demonstrated that STENDRA did not cause any significant changes in QTc interval or ventricular repolarization .
Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure When Administered with Nitrates In a clinical pharmacology trial , a single dose of STENDRA 200 mg was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates .
The use of STENDRA in patients taking any form of nitrates is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
A trial was conducted to assess the degree of interaction between nitroglycerin and STENDRA , should nitroglycerin be required in an emergency situation after STENDRA was taken .
This was a single - center , double - blind , randomized , 3 - way crossover trial of healthy males from 30 to 60 years of age .
Subjects were divided among 5 trial groups with the trial group being determined by the time interval between treatment with trial drug and glyceryl trinitrate administration .
Subjects were assigned to trial groups sequentially and hemodynamic results from the previous group were reviewed for serious adverse events ( SAEs ) before the next group received treatment .
Each subject was dosed with all 3 study drugs ( STENDRA 200 mg , sildenafil citrate 100 mg , and placebo ) in random order .
Subjects were administered a single dose of 0 . 4 mg sublingual nitroglycerin ( NTG ) at pre - specified time points , following their dose of trial drug ( 0 . 5 , 1 , 4 , 8 or 12 hours ) .
Overall , 14 ( 15 % ) subjects treated with placebo and 28 ( 28 % ) subjects treated with avanafil , had clinically significant decreases in standing SBP , defined as greater than or equal to 30 mmHg decrease in SBP , after glyceryl trinitrate administration .
Mean maximum decreases are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Mean Maximum Decreases from Baseline in Sitting and Standing Systolic Blood Pressure / Diastolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) following Placebo or 200 mg STENDRA with 0 . 4 mg sublingual nitroglycerin Placebo with nitroglycerin Sitting Standing 13 . 4 / 11 . 8 21 . 1 / 16 . 5 STENDRA with nitroglycerin Sitting Standing 21 . 6 / 18 . 2 28 . 0 / 23 . 5 Like other PDE5 inhibitors , STENDRA administration with nitrates is contraindicated .
In a patient who has taken STENDRA , where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life threatening situation , at least 12 hours should elapse after the last dose of STENDRA before nitrate administration is considered .
In such circumstances , nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure When Administered with Alpha - Blockers A single - center , randomized , double - blinded , placebo - controlled , two - period crossover trial was conducted to investigate the potential interaction of STENDRA with alpha - blocker agents in healthy male subjects which consisted of two cohorts : Cohort A ( N = 24 ) : Subjects received oral doses of doxazosin once daily in the morning at 1 mg for 1 day ( Day 1 ) , 2 mg for 2 days ( Days 2 – 3 ) , 4 mg for 4 days ( Days 4 – 7 ) , and 8 mg for 11 days ( Days 8 – 18 ) .
On Days 15 and 18 , the subjects also received a single oral dose of either 200 mg STENDRA or placebo , according to the treatment randomization code .
The STENDRA or placebo doses were administered 1 . 3 hours after the doxazosin administration on Days 15 and 18 .
The co - administration was designed so that doxazosin ( Tmax ~ 2 hours ) and STENDRA ( Tmax ~ 0 . 7 hours ) would reach their peak plasma concentrations at the same time .
Cohort B ( N = 24 ) : Subjects received 0 . 4 mg daily oral doses of tamsulosin in the morning for 11 consecutive days ( Days 1 – 11 ) .
On Days 8 and 11 , the subjects also received a single oral dose of either 200 mg STENDRA or placebo , according to the treatment randomization code .
The STENDRA or placebo doses were administered 3 . 3 hours after the tamsulosin administration on Days 8 and 11 .
The co - administration was designed so that tamsulosin ( Tmax ~ 4 hours ) and STENDRA ( Tmax ~ 0 . 7 hours ) would reach their peak plasma concentrations at the same time .
Supine and sitting BP and pulse rate measurements were recorded before and after STENDRA or placebo dosing .
A total of seven subjects in Cohort A ( doxazosin ) experienced potentially clinically important absolute values or changes from baseline in standing SBP or DBP .
Three subjects experienced standing SBP values less than 85 mmHg .
One subject experienced a decrease from baseline in standing SBP greater than 30 mmHg following STENDRA .
Two subjects experienced standing DBP values less than 45 mmHg following STENDRA .
Four subjects experienced decreases from baseline in standing DBP greater than 20 mmHg following STENDRA .
One subject experienced such decreases following placebo .
There were no severe adverse events related to hypotension reported during the trial .
There were no cases of syncope .
A total of five subjects in Cohort B ( tamsulosin ) experienced potentially clinically important absolute values or changes from baseline in standing SBP or DBP .
Two subjects experienced standing SBP values less than 85 mmHg following STENDRA .
One subject experienced a decrease from baseline in standing SBP greater than 30 mmHg following STENDRA .
Two subjects experienced standing DBP values less than 45 mmHg following STENDRA .
Four subjects experienced decreases from baseline in standing DBP greater than 20 mmHg following STENDRA ; one subject experienced such decreases following placebo .
There were no severe adverse events related to hypotension reported during the trial .
There were no cases of syncope .
Table 6 presents the placebo - subtracted mean maximum decreases from baseline ( 95 % CI ) in systolic blood pressure results for the 24 subjects who received STENDRA 200 mg and matching placebo .
Table 6 : Placebo - Subtracted Mean ( 95 % CI ) Maximum Decreases from Baseline in Standing and Supine Systolic Blood Pressure ( mmHg ) with 200 mg STENDRADoxazosin Supine Standing - 6 . 0 ( - 9 . 1 , - 2 . 9 ) - 2 . 5 ( - 6 . 5 , 1 . 5 ) Tamsulosin Supine Standing - 3 . 1 ( - 6 . 4 , 0 . 1 ) - 3 . 6 ( - 8 . 1 , 0 . 9 ) Blood pressure effects ( standing SBP ) in normotensive men on stable dose doxazosin ( 8 mg ) following administration of STENDRA 200 mg or placebo , are shown in Figure 2 .
Blood pressure effects ( standing SBP ) in normotensive men on stable dose tamsulosin ( 0 . 4 mg ) following administration of STENDRA 200 mg or placebo are shown in Figure 3 .
Figure 2 : Mean ( SD ) Change From Baseline in Standing Systolic Blood Pressure Over Time Following Administration of a Single Dose 200 mg Dose of STENDRA with Doxazosin [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Mean ( SD ) Change From Baseline in Standing Systolic Blood Pressure Over Time Following Administration of a Single Dose 200 mg Dose of STENDRA with Tamsulosin [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure When Administered with Enalapril A trial was conducted to assess the interaction of enalapril ( 20 mg daily ) and STENDRA 200 mg .
Single doses of 200 mg STENDRA co - administered with enalapril caused a mean maximum decrease in supine systolic / diastolic blood pressure of 1 . 8 / 3 . 5 mmHg ( compared to placebo ) , accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 . 0 bpm .
Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure When Administered with Amlodipine A trial was conducted to assess the interaction of amlodipine ( 5 mg daily ) and STENDRA 200 mg .
Single doses of 200 mg STENDRA co - administered with amlodipine caused a mean maximum decrease in supine systolic blood pressure of 1 . 2 mmHg ( compared to placebo ) , accompanied by a mean maximum increase in pulse rate of 1 . 0 bpm ; the mean maximum decrease in diastolic blood pressure was less than that observed in the placebo group .
There was no effect of STENDRA on amlodipine plasma concentrations .
Concomitant amlodipine was associated with 22 % and 70 % increases in avanafil Cmax and AUC , respectively .
Effects of STENDRA on Blood Pressure When Administered with Alcohol Alcohol and PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , are mild systemic vasodilators .
The interaction of STENDRA with alcohol was evaluated in a clinical pharmacology trial .
Alcohol was administered at a dose of 0 . 5 g / kg , which is equivalent to approximately 3 ounces of 80 - proof vodka in a 70 - kg male , and STENDRA was administered at a dose of 200 mg .
All patients consumed the entire alcohol dose within 15 minutes of starting .
Blood alcohol levels of 0 . 057 % were confirmed .
There were no reports of orthostatic hypotension or dizziness .
Additional maximum supine systolic / diastolic blood pressure decreases of 3 . 5 / 4 . 5 mmHg and additional maximum pulse rate increase of 9 . 3 bpm were observed when avanafil was taken with alcohol compared to alcohol alone .
Avanafil did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations .
Effects of STENDRA on Spermatogenesis The effect of STENDRA on spermatogenesis was assessed in 181 healthy male volunteers who received STENDRA 100 mg or placebo daily for 26 weeks .
The results of this randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 137 subjects who completed the study through Week 26 and provided 2 semen samples at baseline and at Week 26 showed no adverse effects of STENDRA on sperm concentration , total sperm count , sperm motility , sperm normal morphology , and semen volume .
Effects of STENDRA on Vision Single oral doses of Type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitors have demonstrated transient dose - related impairment of color discrimination ( blue / green ) , using the Farnsworth - Munsell 100 - hue test , with peak effects near the time of peak plasma levels .
This finding is consistent with the inhibition of PDE6 , which is involved in phototransduction in the retina .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Mean STENDRA plasma concentrations measured after the administration of a single oral dose of 50 or 200 mg to healthy male volunteers are depicted in Figure 4 .
The pharmacokinetics of STENDRA are dose proportional from 12 . 5 to 600 mg .
Figure 4 : Plasma Avanafil Concentrations ( mean ± SD ) Following a Single 50 mg or 200 mg STENDRA Dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] Absorption and Distribution STENDRA is rapidly absorbed after oral administration , with a median Tmax of 30 to 45 minutes in the fasted state .
When STENDRA ( 200 mg ) is taken with a high fat meal , the rate of absorption is reduced , with a mean delay in Tmax of 1 . 12 to 1 . 25 hours and a mean reduction in Cmax of 39 % ( 200 mg ) .
There was an approximate 3 . 8 % decrease in AUC .
The small changes in avanafil Cmax and AUC are considered of minimal clinical significance ; therefore , STENDRA may be administered with or without food .
The mean accumulation ratio is approximately 1 . 2 .
Avanafil is approximately 99 % bound to plasma proteins .
Protein binding is independent of total drug concentrations , age , renal and hepatic function .
Based upon measurements of avanafil in semen of healthy volunteers 45 - 90 minutes after dosing , less than 0 . 0002 % of the administered dose appeared in the semen of patients .
Metabolism and Excretion Avanafil is cleared predominantly by hepatic metabolism , mainly by the CYP3A4 enzyme and to a minor extent by CYP2C isoform .
The plasma concentrations of the major circulating metabolites , M4 and M16 , are approximately 23 % and 29 % that of the parent compound , respectively .
The M4 metabolite has an in vitro inhibitory potency for PDE5 18 % of that of avanafil and M4 accounts for approximately 4 % of the pharmacologic activity of avanafil .
The M16 metabolite was inactive against PDE5 .
Avanafil was extensively metabolized in humans .
After oral administration , avanafil is excreted as metabolites predominantly in the feces ( approximately 62 % of administered oral dose ) and to a lesser extent in the urine ( approximately 21 % of the administered oral dose ) .
STENDRA has a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 5 hours .
Geriatric The pharmacokinetics of a single 200 mg STENDRA administered to fourteen healthy elderly male volunteers ( 65 - 80 years ) and eighteen healthy younger male volunteers ( 18 - 43 years of age ) were compared .
AUC0 - inf increased by 6 . 8 % and Cmax decreased by 2 . 1 % in the elderly group , compared to the younger group .
However , greater sensitivity to medications in some older individuals should be considered [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of a single 200 mg STENDRA administered to nine patients with mild ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 60 and less than 90 mL / min ) and to ten patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 30 to less than 60 mL / min ) renal impairment were evaluated .
AUC0 - inf decreased by 2 . 9 % and Cmax increased by 2 . 8 % in patients with mild renal impairment , compared to healthy volunteers with normal renal function .
AUC0 - inf increased by 9 . 1 % and Cmax decreased by 2 . 8 % in patients with moderate renal impairment , compared to healthy volunteers with normal renal function .
There is no data available for subjects with severe renal insufficiency or end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of a single 200 mg STENDRA administered to eight patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A ) and eight patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) were evaluated .
AUC0 - inf increased by 3 . 8 % and Cmax decreased by 2 . 7 % in patients with mild hepatic impairment , compared to healthy volunteers with normal hepatic function .
AUC0 - inf increased by 11 . 2 % and Cmax decreased by 51 % in patients with moderate hepatic impairment , compared to healthy volunteers with normal hepatic function .
There is no data available for subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Effect of CYP3A4 Inhibitors on Avanafil : Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase plasma concentrations of STENDRA .
The effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors , ketoconazole and ritonavir , and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor , erythromycin , on avanafil pharmacokinetics was studied in an open - label , randomized , one - sequence crossover , three - way parallel study .
Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Fifteen healthy male volunteers received 400 mg ketoconazole ( 2 tablets containing 200 mg ketoconazole ) once daily for 5 days ( Days 2 - 6 ) and a single 50 mg avanafil on Days 1 and 6 .
Twenty - four hour pharmacokinetics of avanafil on Days 1 and 6 were compared .
Co - administration with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole resulted in an approximate 13 - fold increase in AUC0 - inf and 3 . 1 - fold increase in Cmax .
Fourteen healthy male volunteers received 300 mg ritonavir ( 3 tablets containing 100 mg ritonavir ) twice daily for 1 day ( Day 2 ) , 400 mg twice daily for 1 day ( Day 3 ) , 600 mg twice daily for 5 days ( Days 4 - 8 ) , and a single 50 mg avanafil on Days 1 and 8 .
Twenty - four hour pharmacokinetics of avanafil on Days 1 and 8 were compared .
Co - administration with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir resulted in an approximate 13 - fold increase in AUC0 - inf and 2 . 4 - fold increase in Cmax of avanafil .
Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Fifteen healthy male volunteers received 500 mg erythromycin ( 2 tablets containing 250 mg erythromycin ) every 12 hrs for 5 days ( Days 2 - 6 ) and a single 200 mg avanafil ( 2 tablets containing 100 mg avanafil ) on Days 1 and 6 .
Twenty - four hour pharmacokinetics of avanafil on Days 1 and 6 were compared .
Co - administration with the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor erythromycin resulted in an approximate 3 . 6 - fold increase in AUC0 - inf and 2 . 0 - fold increase in Cmax of avanafil .
Effect of Avanafil on Other Drugs : Warfarin The effect of avanafil on warfarin pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , two - way crossover study .
Twenty - four healthy male volunteers were randomized to receive either 200 mg avanafil or matching placebo for 9 days .
On Day 3 of each period , volunteers received a single 25 mg warfarin .
Pharmacokinetics of R - and S - warfarin , PT , and INR prior to warfarin dosing and up to 168 hrs after warfarin administration were compared .
Platelet aggregation prior to warfarin dosing and up to 24 hrs after warfarin administration were compared .
PT , INR , and platelet aggregation did not change with avanafil administration : 23 . 1 sec , 2 . 2 , and 75 . 5 % , respectively .
Co - administration with avanafil resulted in an approximate 1 . 6 % increase in AUC0 - inf and 5 . 2 % decrease in Cmax of S - warfarin .
Omeprazole , Rosiglitazone , and Desipramine The effect of avanafil on the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole ( a CYP2C19 substrate ) , rosiglitazone ( a CYP2C8 substrate ) , and desipramine ( a CYP2D6 substrate ) was evaluated in an open - label , three cohort , crossover study .
Nineteen healthy male volunteers received a single 40 mg omeprazole delayed - release capsule once daily for 8 days ( Days 1 - 8 ) , and a single 200 mg avanafil on Day 8 .
Twelve hour pharmacokinetics of omeprazole on Days 7 and 8 were compared .
Co - administration with avanafil resulted in an approximate 5 . 9 % increase in AUC0 - inf and 8 . 6 % increase in Cmax of omeprazole .
Twenty healthy male volunteers received a single 8 mg rosiglitazone tablet then a single 200 mg avanafil .
Twenty - four hour pharmacokinetics of rosiglitazone with and without avanafil were compared .
Co - administration with avanafil resulted in an approximate 2 . 0 % increase in AUC0 - inf and 14 % decrease in Cmax of rosiglitazone .
Twenty healthy male volunteers received a single 50 mg desipramine tablet then a single 200 mg avanafil tablet 2 hours after desipramine .
Ninety - six hour pharmacokinetics of desipramine with and without avanafil were compared .
Co - administration with avanafil resulted in an approximate 5 . 7 % increase in AUC0 - inf and 5 . 2 % increase in Cmax of desipramine .
In vitro studies Avanafil had no effect on CYP1A1 / 2 , 2A6 , 2B6 and 2E1 ( IC50 greater than 100 micromolar ) and weak inhibitory effects toward other isoforms ( CYP2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 3A4 ) .
Major circulating metabolites of avanafil ( M4 and M16 ) had no effect on CYPs 1 A , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 and 3A4 .
Avanafil and its metabolites ( M4 and M16 ) are unlikely to cause clinically significant inhibition of CYPs 1 A , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 or 3A4 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Avanafil was not carcinogenic to CD - 1 mice when administered daily at doses of 100 , 200 , or 600 mg / kg / day orally by gavage for at least 98 weeks ( approximately 11 times the MRHD on an AUC basis ) or to Sprague Dawley rats when administered daily at doses of 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day orally by gavage for at least 100 weeks ( approximately 8 times for males and 34 times for females above the MRHD on an AUC basis ) .
Mutagenesis Avanafil was not genotoxic in a series of tests .
Avanafil was not mutagenic in Ames assays .
Avanafil was not clastogenic in chromosome aberration assays using Chinese hamster ovary and lung cells , or in vivo in the mouse micronucleus assay .
Avanafil did not affect DNA repair when tested in the rat unscheduled DNA synthesis assay .
Impairment of Fertility In a rat fertility and early embryonic development study administered 100 , 300 , or 1000 mg / kg / day for 28 days prior to pairing and continued until euthanasia for males , and 14 days prior to pairing to gestation day 7 for females , a decrease in fertility , no or reduced sperm motility , altered estrous cycles , and an increased percentage of abnormal sperm ( broken sperm with detached heads ) occurred at exposures in males approximately 11 times the human exposure at a dose of 200 mg .
The altered sperm effects were reversible at the end of a 9 - week drug - free period .
Systemic exposure at the NOAEL ( 300 mg / kg / day ) was comparable to the human AUC at the MRHD of 200 mg .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Repeated oral administration of avanafil in multiple species resulted in signs of centrally - mediated toxicity including ataxia , tremor , convulsion , hypoactivity , recumbency , and / or prostration at doses resulting in exposures approximately 5 - 8 times the MRHD based on Cmax and 8 - 30 times the MRHD based on AUC .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES STENDRA was evaluated in four randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel trials of 2 to 3 months in duration .
STENDRA was taken as needed at doses of 50 mg , 100 mg , and 200 mg ( Study 1 ) and 100 mg and 200 mg ( Study 2 , Study 3 and Study 4 ) .
Patients were instructed to take 1 dose of study drug approximately 30 minutes ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) or approximately 15 minutes ( Study 4 ) prior to initiation of sexual activity .
Food and alcohol intake was not restricted .
In addition , a subset of patients from 2 of these trials were enrolled into an open - label extension trial .
In the open - label extension trial , all eligible patients were initially assigned to avanafil 100 mg .
At any point during the trial , patients could request to have their dose of avanafil increased to 200 mg or decreased to 50 mg based on their individual response to treatment .
The 3 primary outcome measures in Studies 1 , 2 and 3 were the erectile function domain of the International Index of Erectile Function ( IIEF ) and Questions 2 and 3 from Sexual Encounter Profile ( SEP ) .
The IIEF is a 4 - week recall questionnaire that was administered at baseline and at 4 - week intervals during treatment .
The IIEF erectile function domain has a 30 - point total score , where the higher scores reflect better erectile function .
The SEP included diary - based measures of erectile function .
Patients recorded information regarding each sexual attempt made throughout the trial .
Question 2 of the SEP asks " Were you able to insert your penis into your partners vagina ? "
Question 3 of the SEP asks " Did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse ? "
In Study 4 , the primary efficacy variable was the per - subject proportion of sexual attempts that had an erectogenic effect within approximately 15 minutes following dosing , where an erectogenic effect was defined as an erection sufficient for vaginal penetration and that enabled satisfactory completion of sexual intercourse .
Results are shown from the three , Phase 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel studies , one in the general ED population ( Study 1 ) , another in the diabetic population with ED ( Study 2 ) , and another in the radical prostatectomy population ( Study 3 ) .
Results in the General ED Population ( Study 1 ) : STENDRA was evaluated in 646 men with ED of various etiologies ( organic , psychogenic , mixed ) , in a randomized , double - blinded , parallel , placebo controlled fixed dose trial of 3 months duration .
The mean age was 55 . 7 years ( range 23 to 88 years ) .
The population was 85 . 6 % White , 13 . 2 % Black , 0 . 9 % Asian , and 0 . 3 % of other races .
The mean duration of ED was approximately 6 . 5 years .
STENDRA at doses of 50 mg , 100 mg , and 200 mg demonstrated statistically significant improvement in all 3 primary efficacy variables relative to placebo ( see Table 7 ) .
Table 7 : Mean Change From Baseline for Primary Efficacy Variables in General ED Population ( Study 1 ) Placebo ( N = 155 ) STENDRA 50 mg ( N = 154 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 157 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 156 ) IIEF EF Domain Score Endpoint 15 . 3 18 . 1 20 . 9 22 . 2 Change from baseline † 2 . 9 5 . 4 8 . 3 9 . 5 p - value * 0 . 0014 < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 Vaginal Penetration ( SEP2 ) Endpoint 53 . 8 % 64 . 3 % 73 . 9 % 77 . 3 % Change from baseline 7 . 1 % 18 . 2 % 27 . 2 % 29 . 8 % p - value * - 0 . 0009 < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 Successful Intercourse ( SEP3 ) Endpoint 27 . 0 % 41 . 3 % 57 . 1 % 57 . 0 % Change from baseline 14 . 1 % 27 . 8 % 43 . 4 % 44 . 2 % p - value * - 0 . 0002 < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 † least - squares estimate from ANCOVA model * comparison to placebo for change from baseline Results in the ED Population with Diabetes Mellitus ( Study 2 ) STENDRA was evaluated in ED patients ( n = 390 ) with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus in a randomized , double - blind , parallel , placebo - controlled fixed dose trial of 3 months in duration .
The mean age was 58 years ( range 30 to 78 years ) .
The population was 80 . 5 % White , 17 . 2 % Black , 1 . 5 % Asian , and 0 . 8 % of other races .
The mean duration of ED was approximately 6 years .
In this trial , STENDRA at doses of 100 mg and 200 mg demonstrated statistically significant improvement in all 3 primary efficacy variables as measured by the erectile function domain of the IIEF questionnaire ; SEP2 and SEP3 ( see Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Mean Change From Baseline for Primary Efficacy Variables in ED Population with Diabetes Mellitus ( Study 2 ) Placebo ( N = 127 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 126 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 126 ) IIEF EF Domain Score Endpoint 13 . 2 15 . 8 17 . 3 Change from baseline † 1 . 8 4 . 5 5 . 4 p - value * - 0 . 0017 < 0 . 0001 Vaginal Penetration ( SEP2 ) Endpoint 42 . 0 % 54 . 0 % 63 . 5 % Change from baseline 7 . 5 % 21 . 5 % 25 . 9 % p - value * - 0 . 0004 < 0 . 0001 Successful Intercourse ( SEP3 ) Endpoint 20 . 5 % 34 . 4 % 40 . 0 % Change from baseline 13 . 6 % 28 . 7 % 34 . 0 % p - value * - < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 † least - squares estimate from ANCOVA model * comparison to placebo for change from baseline Results in the ED Population following Radical Prostatectomy ( Study 3 ) The efficacy of STENDRA was evaluated in Study 3 ( NCT00895011 ) , a randomized , double - blind , parallel , placebo - controlled fixed dose trial of 3 months in duration .
For study inclusion , patients had to have ED following bilateral , nerve - sparing radical prostatectomy .
Patients received STENDRA 100 mg or 200 mg once daily .
A total of 286 patients were included in the efficacy population : mean age 58 . 4 years ( range 40 to 70 years ) , 81 . 5 % White , 18 . 1 % Black and 0 . 3 % of other races .
Treatment with STENDRA at doses of 100 mg and 200 mg demonstrated statistically significant improvement in all 3 primary efficacy variables relative to placebo ( see Table 9 ) .
Table 9 : Mean Change From Baseline for Primary Efficacy Variables in ED Population Following Radical Prostatectomy ( Study 3 ) † least - squares estimates were obtained using an Analysis of Covariance ( ANCOVA ) model with treatment and baseline ED severity category as factors and baseline value as a covariate .
* comparison to placebo for change from baseline Placebo ( N = 96 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 94 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 96 ) IIEF EF Domain Score Endpoint 9 . 3 12 . 6 14 . 7 Change from baseline † 1 . 2 4 . 7 6 . 2 p - value * - 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 Vaginal Penetration ( SEP2 ) Endpoint 19 . 7 % 32 . 5 % 40 . 8 % Change from baseline † 7 . 5 % 22 . 3 % 27 . 7 % p - value * - 0 . 0003 < 0 . 0001 Successful Intercourse ( SEP3 ) Endpoint 8 . 9 % 23 . 4 % 26 . 4 % Change from baseline † 13 . 9 % 28 . 0 % 29 . 4 % p - value * - 0 . 0004 < 0 . 0001 Time to Onset of Effect ( Study 4 ) STENDRA was evaluated in 440 subjects with ED including diabetics ( 16 . 4 % ) and subjects with severe ED ( 41 . 4 % ) in a randomized double - blind , parallel , placebo - controlled study of 2 months duration .
The mean age was 58 . 2 years ( range 24 to 86 years ) .
The population was 75 . 7 % White , 21 . 4 % Black , 1 . 6 % Asian , and 1 . 4 % of other races .
Subjects were encouraged to attempt intercourse approximately 15 minutes after dosing and used a stopwatch for measurement of time to onset of effect , defined as the time to the first occurrence of an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse .
STENDRA 100 mg and 200 mg demonstrated statistically significant improvements relative to placebo in the primary efficacy variable , percentage of all attempts resulting in an erection sufficient for penetration at approximately 15 minutes after dosing followed by successful intercourse ( SEP3 ) ( see Table 10 ) .
Table 10 : Percentage of All Attempts Resulting in an Erection Sufficient for Penetration at Approximately 15 minutes After Dosing Followed by Successful Intercourse ( SEP3 ) During the 8 - Week Treatment Period in the Time to Onset of Effect ( Study 4 ) Placebo ( N = 136 ) STENDRA 100 mg ( N = 139 ) STENDRA 200 mg ( N = 139 ) Percentage of Successful Intercourse ( SEP3 ) Mean 14 . 9 25 . 9 29 . 1 Median 0 . 0 11 . 1 13 . 3 p - value * - 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 * comparison to placebo using rank - ANCOVA model .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING STENDRA ( avanafil ) is supplied as oval , pale yellow tablets containing 50 mg , 100 mg , or 200 mg avanafil debossed with dosage strengths .
50 mg 100 mg 200 mg Bottle of 30 NDC 72384 - 751 - 30 NDC 72384 - 752 - 30 NDC 72384 - 753 - 30 Recommended Storage : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted , 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
17 . 1 Nitrates Physicians should discuss with patients the contraindication of STENDRA with regular and / or intermittent use of organic nitrates .
Patients should be counseled that concomitant use of STENDRA with nitrates could cause blood pressure to suddenly drop to an unsafe level , resulting in dizziness , syncope , or even heart attack or stroke .
Physicians should discuss with patients the appropriate action in the event that they experience anginal chest pain requiring nitroglycerin following intake of STENDRA .
In such a patient , who has taken STENDRA , where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life - threatening situation , at least 12 hours should elapse after the last dose of STENDRA before nitrate administration is considered .
In such circumstances , nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring .
Patients who experience anginal chest pain after taking STENDRA should seek immediate medical attention [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Cardiovascular Considerations Physicians should discuss with patients the potential cardiac risk of sexual activity in patients with preexisting cardiovascular risk factors .
Patients who experience symptoms upon initiation of sexual activity should be advised to refrain from further sexual activity and should seek immediate medical attention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Concomitant Use with Drugs Which Lower Blood Pressure Physicians should advise patients of the potential for STENDRA to augment the blood pressure - lowering effect of alpha - blockers and other antihypertensive medications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 4 Potential for Drug Interactions Patients should be advised to contact the prescribing physician if new medications that may interact with STENDRA are prescribed by another healthcare provider .
17 . 5 Priapism There have been rare reports of prolonged erections greater than 4 hours and priapism ( painful erections greater than 6 hours in duration ) for this class of compounds .
Priapism , if not treated promptly , can result in irreversible damage to the erectile tissue .
Physicians should advise patients who have an erection lasting greater than 4 hours , whether painful or not , to seek emergency medical attention .
17 . 6 Vision Physicians should advise patients to stop use of all PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , and seek medical attention in the event of a sudden loss of vision in one or both eyes .
Such an event may be a sign of non - arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ( NAION ) , a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision that has been reported rarely in temporal association with the use of PDE5 inhibitors .
Physicians should discuss with patients the increased risk of NAION in individuals who have already experienced NAION in one eye .
Physicians should also discuss with patients the increased risk of NAION among the general population in patients with a “ crowded ” optic disc , although evidence is insufficient to support screening of prospective users of PDE5 inhibitor , including STENDRA , for these uncommon conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 7 Sudden Hearing Loss Physicians should advise patients to stop taking PDE5 inhibitors , including STENDRA , and seek prompt medical attention in the event of sudden decrease or loss of hearing .
Use of PDE5 inhibitors has been associated with sudden decrease or loss of hearing , which may be accompanied by tinnitus and dizziness .
It is not possible to determine whether these events are related directly to the use of PDE5 inhibitors or to other factors [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
17 . 8 Alcohol Patients should be made aware that both alcohol and PDE5 inhibitors including STENDRA act as mild vasodilators .
When mild vasodilators are taken in combination , blood pressure - lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased .
Therefore , physicians should inform patients that substantial consumption of alcohol ( e . g . , greater than 3 units ) in combination with STENDRA can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms , including increase in heart rate , decrease in standing blood pressure , dizziness , and headache [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 9 Sexually Transmitted Disease The use of STENDRA offers no protection against sexually transmitted diseases .
Counseling of patients about the protective measures necessary to guard against sexually transmitted diseases , including Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) should be considered .
17 . 10 Recommended Administration Physicians should discuss with patients the appropriate use of STENDRA and its anticipated benefits .
It should be explained that sexual stimulation is required for an erection to occur after taking STENDRA .
Patients should be counseled regarding the dosing of STENDRA .
Inform patients that the recommended starting dose of STENDRA is 100 mg , taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before initiation of sexual activity .
Based on efficacy and tolerability , the dose may be increased to 200 mg taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity , or decreased to 50 mg taken approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity .
The lowest dose that provides benefit should be used .
Patients should be advised to contact their healthcare provider for dose modification .
17 . 11 Guanylate Cyclase ( GC ) Stimulators Physicians should discuss with patients the contraindication of STENDRA with use of guanylate cyclase stimulators such as riociguat or vericiguat [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
Patient InformationSTENDRA ® ( sten - druh ) ( avanafil ) tablets , for oral use What is the most important information I should know about STENDRA ?
STENDRA can cause your blood pressure to drop suddenly to an unsafe level if it is taken with certain other medicines .
Do not take STENDRA if you take any medicines called nitrates .
Nitrates are used to treat chest pain ( angina ) .
A sudden drop in blood pressure can cause you to feel dizzy , faint , or have a heart attack or stroke .
Do not take STENDRA if you take medicines called guanylate cyclase stimulators which include : • Riociguat and vericiguat , medicines that treat pulmonary arterial hypertension and chronic - thromboembolicpulmonary hypertension .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if any of your medicines are nitrates or guanylate cyclase stimulators .
Tell all your healthcare providers that you take STENDRA .
If you need emergency medical care for a heartproblem , it will be important for your healthcare provider to know when you last took STENDRA .
Stop sexual activity and get medical help right away if you get symptoms such as chest pain , dizziness , or nausea during sex .
Sexual activity can put an extra strain on your heart , especially if your heart is already weak from a heart attack or heart disease .
What is STENDRA ?
STENDRA is a prescription medicine used to treat erectile dysfunction ( ED ) in adult men .
STENDRA is not for use in women or children .
It is not known if STENDRA is safe and effective in women or children under 18 years of age .
Do not take STENDRA if you : • take medicines called nitrates .
• use street drugs called “ poppers ” such as amyl nitrite and butyl nitrite .
• are allergic to avanafil or any of the ingredients in STENDRA .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list ofingredients in STENDRA .
• take any medicines called guanylate cyclase stimulators .
Before you take STENDRA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had heart problems such as a heart attack , irregular heartbeat , angina , or heart failure .
• have had heart surgery within the last 6 months .
• have had a stroke .
• have low blood pressure , or high blood pressure that is not controlled .
• have a deformed penis shape .
• have had an erection that lasted for more than 4 hours .
• have problems with your blood cells such as sickle cell anemia , multiple myeloma , or leukemia .
• have retinitis pigmentosa , a rare genetic ( runs in families ) eye disease .
• have ever had severe vision loss , including an eye problem called non - arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ( NAION ) .
• have had a sudden decrease or loss of hearing .
• have bleeding problems .
• have or have had stomach ulcers .
• have liver problems .
• have kidney problems or are having kidney dialysis .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
STENDRA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way STENDRA works causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take any of the following : • medicines called nitrates ( see What is the most important information I should know about STENDRA ? )
• medicines called guanylate cyclase stimulators , such a riociguat or vericiguat ( see What is the most importantinformation I should know about STENDRA ? )
• medicines called HIV protease inhibitors .
• some types of oral antifungal medicines , such as ketoconazole , and itraconozale .
• some types of antibiotics , such as clarithromycin , telithromycin , or erythromycin .
• medicines called alpha blockers .
These include terazosin , tamsulosin HCl , doxazosin , prazosin HCl , alfuzosin HCl , dutasteride and tamsulosin HCl , or silodosin .
Alpha - blockers are sometimes prescribed for prostate problems or high blood pressure .
In some patients , the use of STENDRA with alpha - blockers can lead to a drop in blood pressure or to fainting .
• other medicines that treat high blood pressure .
• other medicines or treatments for ED .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take STENDRA ?
• Take STENDRA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much STENDRA to take and when to take it .
• Take STENDRA 100 mg or 200 mg as early as 15 minutes before sexual activity or • Take STENDRA 50 mg as early as 30 minutes before sexual activity .
• Do not take STENDRA more than 1 time a day .
• Some form of sexual stimulation is needed for an erection to happen after taking STENDRA .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• You should take the lowest dose of STENDRA that works for you .
You and your healthcare provider should decide about the lowest dose of STENDRA that works for you .
• STENDRA may be taken with or without food .
• If you take too much STENDRA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room rightaway .
What should I avoid while taking STENDRA ?
• Do not drink too much alcohol when taking STENDRA ( for example , 3 glasses of wine , or 3 shots of whiskey ) .
Drinking too much alcohol when taking STENDRA can increase your chances of increasing your heart rate , lowering your blood pressure , dizziness or getting a headache .
What are the possible side effects of STENDRA ?
STENDRA can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about STENDRA ? ”
• an erection that will not go away ( priapism ) .
If you have an erection that lasts more than 4 hours , get medical help right away .
If it is not treated right away , priapism can permanently damage your penis .
• sudden vision loss in 1 or both eyes .
Sudden vision loss in 1 or both eyes can be a sign of a serious eye problem called non - arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ( NAION ) .
It is uncertain whether PDE5 inhibitors such as STENDRA , directly cause vision loss .
Stop taking STENDRA and call your healthcare provider right away if you have sudden vision loss in 1 or both eyes .
• sudden hearing decrease or hearing loss .
Some people may also have ringing in their ears ( tinnitus ) or dizziness .
The most common side effects of STENDRA are : • headache • flushing • stuffy or runny nose • sore throat • back pain These are not all of the possible side effects of STENDRA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store STENDRA ?
• Store STENDRA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep STENDRA out of the light .
Keep STENDRA and all medicines out of the reach of children General information about the safe and effective use of STENDRA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use STENDRA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give STENDRA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about STENDRA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in STENDRA ?
Active ingredient : avanafil .
Inactive ingredients : mannitol , fumaric acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , low substituted hydroxypropylcellulose , calcium carbonate , magnesium stearate , and ferric oxide yellow .
Manufactured for : Metuchen Pharmaceuticals , LLC , Freehold , NJ 07728 By : Sanofi Winthrope Industrie , Ambares , France ; © Metuchen Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
All rights reserved .
US Patent Number : 6 , 656 , 935 and 7 , 501 , 409 STENDRA is a registered U . S . trademark of Metuchen Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
375P100 For more information , go to www . STENDRA . com or call 1 - 844 - 458 - 4887 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : October / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72384 - 751 - 30 STENDRA ( avanafil ) tablets 50 mg Rx Only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72384 - 752 - 30 STENDRA ( avanafil ) tablets 100 mg Rx Only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72384 - 753 - 30 STENDRA ( avanafil ) tablets 200 mg Rx Only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
