[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : METROCREAM ® Topical Cream contains metronidazole , USP , at a concentration of 7 . 5 mg per gram ( 0 . 75 % ) in an emollient cream consisting of benzyl alcohol , emulsifying wax , glycerin , isopropyl palmitate , purified water , sorbitol solution , lactic acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Metronidazole is a member of the imidazole class of antibacterial agents and is classified therapeutically as an antiprotozoal and anti - bacterial agent .
Chemically , metronidazole is 2 - methyl - 5 - nitro - 1 H - imidazole - 1 - ethanol .
The molecular formula is C6H9N3O3 and molecular weight is 171 . 16 .
Metronidazole is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mechanisms by which metronidazole acts in the treatment of rosacea are unknown , but appear to include an anti - inflammatory effect .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of inflammatory papules and pustules of rosacea .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole , or other ingredients of the formulation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Topical metronidazole has been reported to cause tearing of the eyes .
Therefore , contact with the eyes should be avoided .
If a reaction suggesting local irritation occurs , patients should be directed to use the medication less frequently or discontinue use .
Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole and should be used with care in patients with evidence of , or history of blood dyscrasia .
Information for patients : This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Drug interactions : Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and coumarin anticoagulants , resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
The effect of topical metronidazole on prothrombin time is not known .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Metronidazole has shown evidence of carcinogenic activity in a number of studies involving chronic , oral administration in mice and rats but not in studies involving hamsters .
Metronidazole has shown evidence of mutagenic activity in several in vitro bacterial assay systems .
In addition , a dose - response increase in the frequency of micronuclei was observed in mice after intraperitoneal injections and an increase in chromosome aberrations have been reported in patients with Crohn ’ s disease who were treated with 200 - 1200 mg / day of metronidazole for 1 to 24 months .
However , no excess chromosomal aberrations in circulating human lymphocytes have been observed in patients treated for 8 months .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy category B : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with the use of METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream in pregnant women .
Metronidazole crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation rapidly .
No fetotoxicity was observed after oral metronidazole in rats or mice .
However , because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response and since oral metronidazole has been shown to be a carcinogen in some rodents , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : After oral administration , metronidazole is secreted in breast milk in concentrations similar to those found in the plasma .
Even though blood levels are significantly lower with topically applied metronidazole than those achieved after oral administration of metronidazole , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In controlled clinical trials , the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of METROCREAM ® Topical Cream was approximately 10 % .
Skin discomfort ( burning and stinging ) was the most frequently reported event followed by erythema , skin irritation , pruritus and worsening of rosacea .
All individual events occurred in less than 3 % of patients .
The following additional adverse experiences have been reported with the topical use of metronidazole : dryness , transient redness , metallic taste , tingling or numbness of extremities and nausea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply and rub in a thin layer of METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream twice daily , morning and evening , to entire affected areas after washing .
Areas to be treated should be washed with a mild cleanser before application .
Patients may use cosmetics after application of METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream .
HOW SUPPLIED : METROCREAM ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) Topical Cream , 0 . 75 % is supplied in a 45 g aluminum tube - NDC 0299 - 3836 - 45 .
Storage conditions : STORE AT CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE , 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) , EXCURSIONS PERMITTED BETWEEN 59 ° AND 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P53314 - 0 Revised : January 2017 PACKAGE LABEL : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MetroCream ® ( metronidazole topical cream ) TOPICAL CREAM 0 . 75 % NET WT .
45 g NDC 0299 - 3836 - 45 Rx only GALDERMA FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
STORE AT CONTROLLED ROOM TEMPERATURE , 68 ° TO 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) , EXCURSIONS PERMITTED BETWEEN 59 ° AND 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Usual dosage : Apply a thin layer to entire affected areas after washing .
Use morning and evening or as directed by physician .
Avoid application close to the eyes .
Each gram contains : Active : metronidazole 0 . 75 % ( 7 . 5 mg ) .
Inactive : benzyl alcohol , emulsifying wax , glycerin , isopropyl palmitate , purified water , sorbitol solution , lactic acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . See closure for lot number and expiration date .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , TX 76177 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P53315 - 0
