WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
See Warnings : Fetal Toxicity DESCRIPTION Fosinopril sodium , USP is a white to off - white powder , freely soluble in methanol ; soluble in chloroform and water .
Fosinopril sodium , USP is designated chemically as L - proline , 4 - cyclohexyl - 1 - [ [ [ 2 - methyl - 1 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) - propoxy ] - ( 4 phenylbutyl ) - phosphinyl ] acetyl ] - , sodium salt , trans - ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is C30H45NNaO7P , and its molecular weight is 585 . 65 .
Fosinoprilat , the active metabolite of fosinopril , is a non - sulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor .
Fosinopril is converted to fosinoprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is designated chemically as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , and its molecular weight is 297 . 73 .
Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is a thiazide diuretic .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP is a combination of fosinopril sodium , USP and hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
It is available for oral use in two tablet strengths : Fosinopril sodium hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 10 / 12 . 5 , containing 10 mg of fosinopril sodium , USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP ; and fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 20 / 12 . 5 , containing 20 mg of fosinopril sodium , USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , USP .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets include anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Fosinopril and fosinoprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and in animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Hypertensive patients treated with fosinopril alone for an average of 8 weeks had elevations of serum potassium of approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L .
Similar patients treated with hydrochlorothiazide alone had a mean reduction in serum potassium of 0 . 15 mEq / L , while patients who received combined treatment with 10 / 12 . 5 mg or 20 / 12 . 5 mg of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide had reductions of 0 . 07 and 0 . 03 mEq / L , respectively .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which fosinopril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , fosinopril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin , so coadministration of an ACE inhibitor tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism The absolute absorption of fosinopril averages 36 % of an oral dose .
The primary site of absorption is the proximal small intestine .
While the rate of absorption may be slowed by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract , the extent of absorption of fosinopril is essentially unaffected .
Following oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , peak plasma concentrations are achieved in 1 to 2 . 5 hours , and the extent of absorption is 50 to 80 % .
The reported studies of food effects on hydrochlorothiazide absorption have been inconclusive .
The absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is increased by agents that reduce gastrointestinal motility .
It is reported to be decreased by 50 % in patients with congestive heart failure .
Cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts fosinopril to its active metabolite , fosinoprilat .
The time to peak plasma concentrations of fosinoprilat is about 3 hours , independent of the administered dose of fosinopril .
In patients with hepatic dysfunction due to cirrhosis , conversion of fosinopril to fosinoprilat may be slowed , but the extent of this conversion is unchanged .
Fosinoprilat is highly protein bound ( 95 % ) , but has negligible binding to cellular components of blood .
The peak serum concentration and the area under the concentration - time curve of fosinoprilat is directly proportional to the administered dose of fosinopril .
After an oral dose of radiolabeled fosinopril , 75 % of radioactivity in plasma was present as active fosinoprilat , 20 to 30 % as a glucuronide conjugate of fosinoprilat , and 1 to 5 % as a p - hydroxy metabolite of fosinoprilat .
Since fosinoprilat is not biotransformed after intravenous administration , fosinopril , not fosinoprilat , appears to be the precursor for the glucuronide and p - hydroxy metabolites .
In rats , the p - hydroxy metabolite of fosinoprilat is as potent an inhibitor of ACE as fosinoprilat ; the glucuronide conjugate is devoid of ACE inhibitory activity .
Studies in animals indicate that fosinopril and fosinoprilat do not cross the blood - brain barrier , but fosinoprilat does cross the placenta of pregnant animals .
In humans , hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta freely , and levels in umbilical - cord blood are similar to those in the maternal circulation .
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized . Its apparent volume of distribution is 3 . 6 to 7 . 8 L / kg , and its measured plasma protein binding is 67 . 9 % .
The drug also accumulates in red blood cells , so that whole blood levels are 1 . 6 to 1 . 8 times those measured in plasma .
After intravenous administration , fosinoprilat is eliminated approximately equally by the liver and kidney .
After oral administration of radiolabeled fosinopril , approximately half of the absorbed dose is excreted in the urine and the remainder is excreted in the feces .
In two studies involving healthy subjects , the mean body clearance of intravenous fosinoprilat was between 26 and 39 mL / min .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal and hepatic function , the effective half - life of accumulation of fosinoprilat following multiple dosing of fosinopril sodium is 11 . 5 hours .
Thus , steady - state concentrations of fosinoprilat should be reached after 2 or 3 doses of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide given once daily .
In patients with renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance < 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the total body clearance of fosinoprilat is approximately one half of that in patients with normal renal function , while absorption , bioavailability , and protein binding are not appreciably altered .
The clearance of fosinoprilat does not differ appreciably with the degree of renal insufficiency , because the diminished renal elimination is offset by increased hepatobiliary elimination .
A modest increase in plasma AUC levels ( less than two times that in normals ) was observed in patients with various degrees of renal insufficiency , including end - stage renal failure ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Fosinopril is not well dialyzed .
Clearance of fosinoprilat by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis averages 2 % and 7 % , respectively , of urea clearances .
In patients with hepatic insufficiency ( alcoholic or biliary cirrhosis ) , the apparent total body clearance of fosinoprilat is approximately one half of that in patients with normal hepatic function .
In elderly ( male ) subjects ( 65 to 74 years old ) with clinically normal renal and hepatic function , there appear to be no significant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters for fosinoprilat compared to those of younger subjects ( 20 to 35 years old ) .
Thiazide diuretics are eliminated by the kidney , with a terminal half - life of 5 to 15 hours .
In a study of patients with impaired renal function ( mean creatinine clearance of 19 mL / min ) , the half - life of hydrochlorothiazide elimination was lengthened to 21 hours .
When fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide are administered concomitantly , the pharmacokinetics of hydrochlorothiazide are essentially unaffected .
Serum levels of fosinoprilat are increased after several weeks of coadministration of hydrochlorothiazide and fosinopril , but the increase is not sufficient to warrant any change in dosing .
Pharmacodynamics After single doses of 10 to 40 mg of fosinopril , serum ACE activity was inhibited by at least 90 % from 2 to 12 hours after dosing .
At 24 hours , serum ACE activity remains suppressed by 85 to 93 % .
Administration of fosinopril to patients with mild to moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
In studies in hypertensive patients after three months of fosinopril monotherapy , hemodynamic responses to various stimuli ( isometric exercise , 45 ° head - up tilt , mental challenges ) were unchanged compared to baseline , suggesting that fosinopril did not affect the activity of the sympathetic nervous system .
Instead , fosinopril - induced reduction in blood pressure appears to be mediated by a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance without reflex cardiac effects .
In similar studies , renal , splanchnic , cerebral , and skeletal - muscle blood flows were all unchanged compared to baseline , as was glomerular filtration rate .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS ) .
Following oral administration of single doses of 10 to 40 mg , fosinopril lowered blood pressure within one hour , with peak reductions achieved 2 to 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
Following four weeks of monotherapy in placebo - controlled trials in patients with mild to moderate hypertension , once - daily doses of 20 to 80 mg lowered supine or seated blood pressures ( systolic / diastolic ) 24 hours after dosing by an average of 8 to 9 / 6 to 7 mmHg more than placebo .
The trough effect was about 50 to 60 % of the peak diastolic response and about 80 % of the peak systolic response .
In clinical studies of various combinations that included 0 to 40 mg of fosinopril and 0 to 37 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , the antihypertensive effects were increased with increasing dose of either component .
Peak blood pressure reductions were achieved 2 to 6 hours after dosing .
The mean reductions in seated blood pressure ( systolic / diastolic ) associated with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 / 12 . 5 after 24 hours were 9 to 18 / 5 to 7 mmHg greater than those associated with placebo ; those associated with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 / 12 . 5 after 24 hours were 12 to 17 / 8 to 10 mmHg greater than those associated with placebo .
These trough effects were 60 to 90 % of the corresponding peak effects .
Although hydrochlorothiazide tends to be more effective in low - renin hypertensive patients ( mainly blacks ) , and fosinopril — like other ACE inhibitors — tends to be more effective in high - renin patients ( mainly non - blacks ) , the effectiveness of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide is independent of race , age , and gender .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
These fixed dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In using fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen - vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that fosinopril does not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS : Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis ) .
ACE inhibitors ( for which adequate data are available ) cause a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients ( see WARNINGS : Head and Neck Angioedema and Intestinal Angioedema ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide is also contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to fosinopril , to any other ACE inhibitor , to hydrochlorothiazide , or other sulfonamide - derived drugs , or any other ingredient or component in the formulation .
Hypersensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
When involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine injection 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid ReactionsDuring Membrane Exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Like other ACE inhibitors , fosinopril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume - and / or salt - depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used cautiously in patients receiving concomitant therapy with other antihypertensives .
The thiazide component of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs , especially ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic - blocking drugs .
The antihypertensive effects of the thiazide component may also be enhanced in the post - sympathectomy patient .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria , azotemia , and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide therapy should be started under close medical supervision ; they should be followed closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of fosinopril or diuretic is increased .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position , and , if necessary , treated with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Impaired Renal Function Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with severe renal disease .
Thiazides may precipitate azotemia in such patients , and the effects of repeated dosing may be cumulative .
When the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system is inhibited by ACE inhibitors , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure , whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors ( including fosinopril ) may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
In some studies of hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , treatment with ACE inhibitors has been associated with increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine ; these increases were reversible upon discontinuation of ACE inhibitor therapy , concomitant diuretic therapy , or both .
When such patients are treated with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some ACE - inhibitor - treated hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when the ACE inhibitor has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
Dosage reduction of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide may be required .
Evaluation of the hypertensive patient should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients ( incidence probably less than once per 10 , 000 exposures ) , but more frequently ( incidence possibly as great as once per 1 , 000 exposures ) in patients with renal impairment , especially those who also have a collagen - vascular disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of fosinopril are insufficient to show that fosinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Neutropenia / agranulocytosis has also been associated with thiazide diuretics .
Fetal toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
[ see Precautions , Pediatric Use ] Intrauterine exposure to thiazide diuretics is associated with fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that occurred in adults .
No teratogenic effects of fosinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits .
On a mg / kg basis , the doses used were up to 180 times ( in rats ) and one time ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
No teratogenic effects of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits .
On a mg / kg ( fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide ) basis , the doses used were up to 188 / 94 times ( in rats ) and 0 . 6 / 0 . 3 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Impaired Hepatic Function Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that begins with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
A patient receiving fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide who develops jaundice or marked elevation of hepatic enzymes should discontinue fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Also , since the metabolism of fosinopril to fosinoprilat is normally dependent upon hepatic esterases , patients with impaired liver function could develop elevated plasma levels of fosinopril .
In a study of patients with alcoholic or biliary cirrhosis the rate ( but not the extent ) of hydrolysis to fosinoprilat was reduced .
In these patients the clearance of fosinoprilat was reduced , and the area under the fosinoprilat - time curve was approximately doubled .
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
PRECAUTIONS General Derangements of Serum Electrolytes : In clinical trials of fosinopril monotherapy , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium at least 10 % greater than the upper limit of normal ) occurred in approximately 2 . 6 % of hypertensive patients receiving fosinopril .
In most cases , these were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia included renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
Conversely , treatment with thiazide diuretics has been associated with hypokalemia , hyponatremia , and hypochloremic alkalosis .
These disturbances have sometimes been manifest as one or more of dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , nausea , and vomiting .
Hypokalemia can also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis .
The risk of hypokalemia is greatest in patients with cirrhosis of the liver , in patients experiencing a brisk diuresis , in patients who are receiving inadequate oral intake of electrolytes , and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or ACTH .
The opposite effects of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium will approximately balance each other in many patients , so that no net effect upon serum potassium will be seen .
In other patients , one or the other effect may be dominant .
Initial and periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
Chloride deficits are generally mild and require specific treatment only under extraordinary circumstances ( e . g . , in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than administration of salt , except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides .
In a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy , pathological changes in the parathyroid gland have been observed , with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia .
More serious complications of hyperparathyroidism ( renal lithiasis , bone resorption , and peptic ulceration ) have not been seen .
Thiazides increase the urinary excretion of magnesium , and hypomagnesemia may result .
Other Metabolic Disturbances : Thiazide diuretics tend to reduce glucose tolerance and to raise serum levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , and uric acid .
These effects are usually minor , but frank gout or overt diabetes may be precipitated in susceptible patients .
Cough : Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / Anesthesia : In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , fosinopril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , especially following the first dose .
A patient receiving fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be told to report immediatelyany signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more drug until after consulting with the prescribing physician .
Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Hyperkalemia : A patient receiving fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Laboratory Tests Therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be interrupted for a few days before carrying out tests of parathyroid function .
Fosinopril may cause false low measurement of serum digoxin levels when the Digi - Tab ® ( Nuclear Medical ) RIA Kit is used .
The accuracy of the Coat - A - Count ® ( Diagnostic Products Corporation ) kit is not affected .
Drug Interactions Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
Potassium supplements and potassium - sparing diuretics : As noted above ( “ Derangements of Serum Electrolytes ” ) , the net effect of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide may be to elevate a patient ’ s serum potassium , to reduce it , or to leave it unchanged .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
If concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be given with caution , and the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
Lithium : Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
Because renal clearance of lithium is reduced by thiazides , the risk of lithium toxicity is presumably raised further when , as in therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , a thiazide diuretic is coadministered with the ACE inhibitor .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
Antacids : In a clinical pharmacology study , serum levels and urinary excretion of fosinoprilat were reduced when fosinopril was coadministered with an antacid ( aluminum hydroxide , magnesium hydroxide , and simethicone ) suggesting that antacids may impair absorption of fosinopril .
If concomitant administration of these agents is indicated , dosing should be separated by 2 hours .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide .
Other : The bioavailability of unbound fosinoprilat is not altered by coadministration of fosinopril with aspirin , chlorthalidone , cimetidine , digoxin , metoclopramide , nifedipine , propranolol , propantheline , or warfarin .
Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because drugs of both classes lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
Interaction studies with warfarin have failed to identify any clinically important effects of fosinopril on the serum concentration or clinical effects of the anticoagulant .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine , but not enough to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use .
Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
The diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics may be reduced by concurrent administration of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents ; the effects ( if any ) of these agents on the antihypertensive effect of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide have not been studied .
By alkalinizing the urine , hydrochlorothiazide may decrease the effectiveness of methenamine .
Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins : Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Fosinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide : Reproductive studies and long - term carcinogenicity studies with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide have not been conducted .
The combination of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide was not mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test , the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , or the Chinese hamster ovary cell cytogenetic assay .
The combination was also not genotoxic in a mouse micronucleus test in vivo .
Fosinopril Sodium : No evidence of a carcinogenicity was found when fosinopril was given in the diet to rats and mice for up to 24 months at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day .
On a body weight basis , the highest dose was about 250 times the maximum human dose of 80 mg , given to a 50 kg subject .
On a body surface area basis , this dose is 20 ( mice ) to 40 ( rats ) times the maximum human dose .
Neither fosinopril nor the fosinoprilat moiety was mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test , the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , or a mitotic gene conversion assay .
Fosinopril was also not genotoxic in a mouse micronucleus test in vivo and a mouse bone marrow cytogenetic assay in vivo .
In Chinese hamster ovary cell cytogenetic assay , fosinopril increased the frequency of chromosomal aberrations when tested without metabolic activation at a concentration that was toxic to the cells .
However , there was no increase in chromosomal aberrations at lower drug concentrations without metabolic activation or at any concentration with metabolic activation .
There were no adverse reproductive effects in male and female rats treated with up to 60 mg / kg daily .
At doses 4 times higher , slight increases in pairing time were seen .
This higher dose is about 125 ( body surface area basis ) or 600 ( body weight basis ) times greater than the dose received by a 50 kg human receiving 20 mg a day .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program , rats and mice received hydrochlorothiazide for two years at doses up to 100 ( rats ) and 600 ( mice ) mg / kg / day .
On a body weight basis , these highest doses were about 2400 times ( mice ) or 400 times ( rats ) the fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide dose of 12 . 5 mg , given to a 50 kg subject .
On a body surface area basis , these doses are 226 times ( mice ) and 82 times ( rats ) the fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide dose .
These studies uncovered no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats or female mice , but there was equivocal evidence of hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames assay ) ; in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations ; or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes ; Chinese Hamster bone - marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide of 43 to 1300 mg / mL , positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) test and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays .
Using an unspecified concentration of hydrochlorothiazide , positive test results were also obtained in the Aspergillus nidulans nondisjunction assay .
No adverse effects upon fertility were seen when rats and mice received dietary hydrochlorothiazide prior to mating and throughout gestation at doses up to 4 ( rats ) and 100 ( mice ) mg / kg / day .
These doses are from 3 . 2 ( body surface area basis in rats ) to 400 ( weight basis in mice ) times greater than the dose received by a 50 kg human receiving 12 . 5 mg a day .
Nursing Mothers Both fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Removal of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide , which crosses the placenta , from the neonatal circulation is not significantly accelerated by these means .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets has been evaluated for safety in over 660 patients with hypertension ; approximately 137 of these patients were treated for more than one year .
The observed adverse events were generally mild , transient , and similar to those seen with fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide taken separately .
There was no relationship between the incidence of side effects and age .
In placebo - controlled clinical trials of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide , the usual duration of therapy was two months .
Adverse clinical or laboratory events led to discontinuation of therapy by 4 . 3 % of 368 placebo - treated patients and by 3 . 5 % of 660 fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide - treated patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide in U . S . studies were headache ( 0 . 3 % ) , cough ( 0 . 3 % ; see PRECAUTIONS ) , and fatigue ( 0 . 2 % ) .
The side effects considered probably or possibly related to study drug that occurred in placebo - controlled trials in more than 2 % of patients treated with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide are shown in the table below .
Reactions Possibly or Probably Drug - Related ( Incidence in Placebo Controlled Studies ) Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide ( N = 660 ) % Placebo ( N = 368 ) % Headache 7 12 . 8 Cough 5 . 6 1 . 1 Fatigue 3 . 9 2 . 4 Dizziness 3 . 2 2 . 2 Upper Respiratory Infection 2 . 3 2 . 7 Musculoskeletal Pain 2 1 . 9 Other side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in controlled trials in 0 . 5 % to < 2 % of patients treated with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide , and rarer but clinically significant events regardless of causal relationship were : General : Chest pain , weakness , fever , viral infection .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension ( seen in 1 . 8 % of fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide patients and 0 . 3 % of placebo patients ; no patients discontinued therapy due to orthostatic hypotension ) , edema , flushing , rhythm disturbance , syncope .
Dermatologic : Pruritus , rash .
Endocrine / Metabolic : Sexual dysfunction , change in libido , breast mass .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea / vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia / heartburn , abdominal pain , gastritis / esophagitis .
Immunologic : Angioedema ( see WARNINGS : Head and Neck Angioedema and Intestinal Angioedema ) .
Musculoskeletal : Myalgia / muscle cramps .
Neurologic / Psychiatric : Somnolence , depression , numbness / paresthesia .
Respiratory : Sinus congestion , pharyngitis , rhinitis .
Special Senses : Tinnitus .
Urogenital : Urinary tract infection , urinary frequency , dysuria .
Laboratory Test Abnormalities : Serum electrolytes , uric acid , glucose , magnesium , cholesterol , triglycerides , and calcium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Neutropenia .
Antihypertensive monotherapy with fosinopril has been evaluated for safety in more than 1500 patients , of whom approximately 450 patients were treated for a year or more .
The observed adverse events included events similar to those seen with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide ; in addition , the following others have also been reported with fosinopril : Cardiovascular : Angina , myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident , hypertensive crisis , hypotension , claudication .
Dermatologic : Urticaria , photosensitivity .
Endocrine / Metabolic : Gout .
Gastrointestinal : Pancreatitis , hepatitis , dysphagia , abdominal distention , flatulence , appetite / weight change , dry mouth .
Hematologic : Lymphadenopathy .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia .
Neurologic / Psychiatric : Memory disturbance , tremor , confusion , mood change , sleep disturbance .
Respiratory : Bronchospasm , laryngitis / hoarseness , epistaxis , and ( in two patients ) a symptom - complex of cough , bronchospasm , and eosinophilia .
Special Senses : Vision disturbance , taste disturbance , eye irritation .
Urogenital : Renal insufficiency .
Laboratory Test Abnormalities : Elevations ( usually transient and minor ) of BUN and creatinine have been observed , but these have not been more frequent than in parallel patients treated with placebo .
The hemoglobin in fosinopril - treated patients generally decreases by an average of 0 . 1 g / dL , but this nonprogressive change has never been symptomatic .
Leukopenia and eosinophilia have also been reported .
Serum levels of liver function tests ( transaminases , LDH , alkaline phosphatase and serum bilirubin ) have occasionally been found to be elevated , and these elevations have lead to discontinuation of therapy in 0 . 7 % of patients .
Other risk factors for liver dysfunction have often been present in these cases ; in any event the elevations generally have resolved after discontinuation of therapy with fosinopril .
Other Adverse Events Reported with ACE Inhibitors Other adverse effects reported with ACE inhibitors include cardiac arrest ; pancytopenia , hemolytic anemia ; aplastic anemia ; thrombocytopenia ; bullous pemphigus , exfoliative dermatitis ; and a syndrome that may include one or more of arthralgia / arthritis , vasculitis , serositis , myalgia , fever , rash or other dermopathy , positive ANA titer , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , and elevated ESR .
Hydrochlorothiazide has now been extensively prescribed for many years , but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of the frequency of the observed adverse reactions .
Within organ - system groups , the reported reactions are listed here in decreasing order of severity , without regard to frequency .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension ( may be potentiated by alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics ) .
Gastrointestinal : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic ) , sialadenitis , vomiting , diarrhea , cramping , nausea , gastric irritation , constipation , and anorexia .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and hemolytic anemia .
Immunologic : Necrotizing angiitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , respiratory distress ( including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema ) , anaphylactic reactions , purpura , urticaria , rash , and photosensitivity .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , and hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Neurologic : Vertigo , lightheadedness , transient blurred vision , headache , paresthesia , xanthopsia , weakness , and restlessness .
OVERDOSAGE To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is a certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdose , consider the possibilities of multiple - drug overdoses , drug - drug interactions , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ; treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued , and the patient should be observed .
Dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , and hypotension should be treated by established procedures .
In rats , single oral doses of 2600 mg / kg of fosinopril were associated with significant lethality .
In single - dose studies of hydrochlorothiazide , most rats survived doses of up to 2750 mg / kg .
Both doses are more than 6000 times ( on a mg / kg basis ) the maximum recommended daily dose of either fosinopril or hydrochlorothiazide in fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide .
Data from human overdoses of fosinopril are scanty , but the most common manifestation of human fosinopril overdosage is likely to be hypotension .
In human hydrochlorothiazide overdose , the most common signs and symptoms observed have been those of dehydration and electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of fosinopril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of fosinopril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of fosinopril and its metabolites .
Fosinoprilat is poorly removed from the body by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of fosinopril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of fosinopril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat fosinopril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fosinopril is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 10 to 80 mg , while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12 . 5 to 50 mg per day .
In clinical trials of fosinopril / hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using fosinopril doses of 2 . 5 to 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses at 5 to 37 . 5 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of either component .
The hazards ( see WARNINGS ) of fosinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose ; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose - dependent phenomena ( primarily hypokalemia ) and dose - independent phenomena ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , the former much more common than the latter .
Therapy with any combination of fosinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose - independent hazards .
To minimize dose - independent hazards , it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy .
Dose Titration by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with fosinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to combination therapy with fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP .
Dosage must be guided by clinical response ; controlled clinical trials showed that the addition of 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide to 10 to 20 mg of fosinopril will typically be associated with additional reduction in seated diastolic blood pressure at 24 hours after dosing .
On average , the effect of the combination of 10 mg of fosinopril with 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide was similar to the effect seen with monotherapy using either 40 mg of fosinopril or 37 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Use in Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance is < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , serum creatine roughly ≥ 3 mg / dL or 265 µmol / L ) , loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides , so fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP is not recommended .
In patients with lesser degrees of renal impairment , fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP may be used with no change in dosage .
HOW SUPPLIED Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP is available in two different strengths .
Dosage strengths of both components , tablet characteristics , and available quantities / packaging are identified below .
Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP10 / 12 . 5 Fosinopril sodium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP20 / 12 . 5 fosinopril 10 mg 20 mg hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg 12 . 5 mg shape Flat beveled edge , circular tablets Flat beveled edge , circular tablets color White to off - white White to off - white debossed RC 3 on one side and plain on the other RC 4 and scoreline on one side and plain on the other bottles of 30 NDC 63304 - 403 - 30 NDC 63304 - 404 - 30 bottles of 100 NDC 63304 - 403 - 01 NDC 63304 - 404 - 01 bottles of 1000 NDC 63304 - 403 - 10 NDC 63304 - 404 - 10 Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture by keeping bottle tightly closed .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd .
New Delhi – 110 019 , India November 2013 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
