Active ingredient ( in each 10 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 30 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Uses • ▪ temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • ▪ Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • ▪ cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • do not take more than 4 doses in a 24 - hour period • • measure only with dosing cup provided • • keep dosing cup with product • • mL = milliliter • • this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age age dose adults and children 12 years and over 10 mL every 6 to 8 hours children under 12 years do not use Other information • • each 10 ml contains : sodium 3 mg • • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , disodium edetate , FD & C red 40 , flavor , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel NDC # 69842 - 634 - 04 * Compare to the active ingredient in Adult Robitussin ® Long - Acting Cough * Long - Acting Cough Dextromethorphan HBr ( Cough Suppressant ) Relieves : • • Cough 8 Hour Relief No Added Alcohol Sugar - Free For Ages 12 & Over 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer , owner of the registered trademark Adult Robitussin ® Long - Acting Cough .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL ON THE BOTTLE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
