DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) , for oral administration contains : Promethazine hydrochloride , USP 6 . 25 mg ; phenylephrine hydrochloride , USP 5 mg .
Alcohol 7 % .
Inactive Ingredients : alcohol , ascorbic acid , caramel color , citric acid , edetate disodium , glycerin , methylparaben , natural & artificial citrus flavor , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sodium metabisulfite and sucrose .
Promethazine hydrochloride , USP , a phenothiazine derivative , is chemically designated as ( ± ) - 10 - [ 2 - ( Dimethylamino ) propyl ] phenothiazine monohydrochloride .
Promethazine hydrochloride , USP occurs as a white to faint yellow , practically odorless , crystalline powder which slowly oxidizes and turns blue on prolonged exposure to air .
It is soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol .
It has a molecular weight of 320 . 88 , a molecular formula of C17H20N2S • HCl and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenylephrine hydrochloride , USP is a sympathomimetic amine salt which is chemically designated as ( - ) - m - Hydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol hydrochloride .
It occurs as white or nearly white crystals , having a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water and alcohol .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride , USP is subject to oxidation and must be protected from light and air .
It has a molecular weight of 203 . 67 , a molecular formula of C9H13NO2 • HCl , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Promethazine : Promethazine is a phenothiazine derivative which differs structurally from the antipsychotic phenothiazines by the presence of a branched side chain and no ring substitution .
It is thought that this configuration is responsible for its relative lack ( 1 / 10 that of chlorpromazine ) of dopamine antagonist properties .
Promethazine is an H1 receptor blocking agent .
In addition to its antihistaminic action , it provides clinically useful sedative and antiemetic effects .
Promethazine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Clinical effects are apparent within 20 minutes after oral administration and generally last four to six hours , although they may persist as long as 12 hours .
Promethazine is metabolized by the liver to a variety of compounds ; the sulfoxides of promethazine and N - demethylpromethazine are the predominant metabolites appearing in the urine .
Phenylephrine : Phenylephrine is a potent postsynaptic α - receptor agonist with little effect on β - receptors of the heart .
Phenylephrine has no effect on β - adrenergic receptors of the bronchi or peripheral blood vessels .
A direct action at receptors accounts for the greater part of its effects , only a small part being due to its ability to release norepinephrine .
Therapeutic doses of phenylephrine mainly cause vasoconstriction .
Phenylephrine increases resistance and , to a lesser extent , decreases capacitance of blood vessels .
Total peripheral resistance is increased , resulting in increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
Pulmonary arterial pressure is usually increased , and renal blood flow is usually decreased .
Local vasoconstriction and hemostasis occur following topical application or infiltration of phenylephrine into tissues .
The main effect of phenylephrine on the heart is bradycardia ; it produces a positive inotropic effect on the myocardium in doses greater than those usually used therapeutically .
Rarely , the drug may increase the irritability of the heart , causing arrhythmias .
Cardiac output is decreased slightly .
Phenylephrine increases the work of the heart by increasing peripheral arterial resistance .
Phenylephrine has a mild central stimulant effect .
Following oral administration or topical application of phenylephrine to the mucosa , constriction of blood vessels in the nasal mucosa relieves nasal congestion associated with allergy or head colds .
Following oral administration , nasal decongestion may occur within 15 or 20 minutes and may persist for up to 4 hours .
Phenylephrine is irregularly absorbed from and readily metabolized in the gastrointestinal tract .
Phenylephrine is metabolized in the liver and intestine by monoamine oxidase .
The metabolites and their route and rate of excretion have not been identified .
The pharmacologic action of phenylephrine is terminated at least partially by uptake of the drug into tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution , USP is indicated for the temporary relief of upper respiratory symptoms , including nasal congestion , associated with allergy or the common cold .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Promethazine is contraindicated in comatose states , and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenothiazines .
Antihistamines are contraindicated for use in the treatment of lower respiratory tract symptoms , including asthma .
Phenylephrine is contraindicated in patients with hypertension or with peripheral vascular insufficiency ( ischemia may result with risk of gangrene or thrombosis of compromised vascular beds ) .
Phenylephrine should not be used in patients known to be hypersensitive to the drug or in those receiving a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
WARNINGS Promethazine hydrochloride should not be used in pediatric patients less than 2 years of Age because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression .
Postmarketing cases of respiratory depression , including fatalities , have been reported with use of promethazine hydrochloride in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age .
A wide range of weight - based doses of promethazine hydrochloride have results in respiratory depression in these patients .
Caution should be exercised when administering promethazine hydrochloride to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older .
It is recommended that the lowest effective dose of promethazine hydrochloride be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older and concomitant administration of other drugs with respiratory depressant effects be avoided .
Sulfite Sensitivity : Promethazine Hydrochloride and Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Promethazine : CNS Depression - Promethazine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central nervous - system depressants such as alcohol , sedatives / hypnotics ( including barbiturates ) , narcotics , narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , tricyclic antidepressants , and tranquilizers ; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine HCl ( see PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ) .
Respiratory Depression - Promethazine may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression .
Use of Promethazine in patients with compromised respiratory function ( e . g . , COPD , sleep apnea ) should be avoided .
Lower Seizure Threshold - Promethazine may lower seizure threshold .
It should be used with caution in persons with seizure disorders or in persons who are using concomitant medications , such as narcotics or local anesthetics , which may also affect seizure threshold .
Bone - Marrow Depression - Promethazine should be used with caution in patients with bone - marrow depression .
Leukopenia and agranulocytosis have been reported , usually when promethazine HCl has been used in association with other known marrow - toxic agents .
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome - A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ( NMS ) has been reported in association with promethazine HCl alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs .
Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia , muscle rigidity , altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability ( irregular pulse or blood pressure , tachycardia , diaphoresis and cardiac dysrhythmias ) .
The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated .
In arriving at a diagnosis , it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness ( e . g . pneumonia , systemic infection , etc . ) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms ( EPS ) .
Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity , heat stroke , drug fever and primary central nervous system ( CNS ) pathology .
The management of NMS should include 1 ) immediate discontinuation of promethazine HCl , antipsychotic drugs , if any , and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy , 2 ) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring , and 3 ) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available .
There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS .
Since recurrences of NMS have been reported with phenothiazines , the reintroduction of promethazine HCl should be carefully considered .
Use in Pediatric Patients Promethazine products are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age .
Caution should be exercised when administering promethazine products to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression .
Respiratory depression and apnea , sometime associated with death , are strongly associated with promethazine products and are not directly related to individualized weight - based dosing , which might otherwise permit safe administration .
Concomitant administration of promethazine products with other respiratory depressants has an association with respiratory depression , and sometimes death , in pediatric patients .
Antiemetics are not recommended for treatment of uncomplicated vomiting in pediatric patients , and their use should be limited to prolonged vomiting of known etiology .
The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to promethazine hydrochloride administration may be confused with the CNS signs of undiagnosed primary disease , e . g . , encephalopathy or Reye ’ s syndrome .
The use of promethazine products should be avoided in pediatric patients whose signs and symptoms may suggest Reye ’ s syndrome or other hepatic diseases .
Excessively large dosages of antihistamines , including promethazine hydrochloride , in pediatric patients may cause sudden death ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Hallucinations and convulsions have occurred with therapeutic doses and overdoses of promethazine hydrochloride in pediatric patients .
In pediatric patients who are acutely ill associated with dehydration there is an increased susceptibility to dystonias with the use of promethazine HCl .
Other Considerations Administration of promethazine has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice .
Phenylephrine : Because phenylephrine is an adrenergic agent , it should be given with caution to patients with thyroid diseases , diabetes mellitus , and heart disease or those receiving tricyclic antidepressants .
Men with symptomatic , benign prostatic hypertrophy can experience urinary retention when given oral nasal decongestants .
Phenylephrine can cause a decrease in cardiac output , and extreme caution should be used when administering the drug parenterally or orally to patients with arteriosclerosis , to elderly individuals , and / or to patients with initially poor cerebral or coronary circulation .
Phenylephrine should be used with caution in patients taking diet preparations , such as amphetamines or phenylpropanolamine , because synergistic adrenergic effects could result in serious hypertensive response and possible stroke .
PRECAUTIONS Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with the drug combination - promethazine and phenylephrine .
It is not known whether this drug combination can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Promethazine and phenylephrine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
General : Drugs having anticholinergic properties should be used with caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , prostatic hypertrophy , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , and bladder - neck obstruction .
Promethazine should be used cautiously in persons with cardiovascular disease or impairment of liver function .
Phenylephrine should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disease , particularly hypertension .
Information For Patients : Patients should be advised to measure promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution with accurate measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage , especially when a half teaspoon is measured .
A pharmacist can recommend an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
Promethazine and phenylephrine may cause marked drowsiness or may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
Ambulatory patients should be told to avoid engaging in such activities until it is known that they do not become drowsy or dizzy from promethazine and phenylephrine therapy .
Children should be supervised to avoid potential harm in bike riding or in other hazardous activities .
The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants , including narcotic analgesics , sedatives , hypnotics , and tranquilizers , may have an additive effect and should be avoided or their dosage reduced .
Patients should be advised to report any involuntary muscle movements .
Avoid prolonged exposure to the sun .
Drug Interactions : Promethazine CNS Depressants - Promethazine may increase , prolong , or intensify the sedative action of other central - nervous system depressants , such as alcohol , sedatives / hypnotics ( including barbiturates ) , narcotics , narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , tricylic antidepressants , and tranquilizers ; therefore , such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl .
When given concomitantly with promethazine , the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one - half , and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one - quarter to one - half .
Dosage must be individualized .
Excessive amounts of promethazine HCl relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain ; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain .
Epinephrine - Because of the potential for promethazine to reverse epinephrine ' s vasopressor effect , epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine overdose .
Anticholinergics - Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) - Drug interactions , including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects , have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly .
Phenylephrine Drug Phenylephrine with prior administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) .
Effect Cardiac pressor response potentiated .
May cause acute hypertensive crisis .
Drug Phenylephrine with tricyclic antidepressants .
Effect Pressor response increased .
Drug Phenylephrine with ergot alkaloids .
Effect Excessive rise in blood pressure .
Drug Phenylephrine with bronchodilator sympathomimetic agents and with epinephrine or other sympathomimetics .
Effect Tachycardia or other arrhythmias may occur .
Drug Phenylephrine with atropine sulfate Effect Reflex bradycardia blocked ; pressor response enhanced .
Drug Phenylephrine with prior administration of propranolol or other β - adrenergic blockers .
Effect Cardiostimulating effects blocked .
Drug Phenylephrine with prior administration of phentolamine or other α - adrenergic blockers .
Effect Pressor response decreased .
Drug Phenylephrine with diet preparations , such as amphetamines or phenylpropanolamine .
Effect Synergistic adrenergic response .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : The following laboratory tests may be affected in patients who are receiving therapy with promethazine hydrochloride .
Pregnancy Tests : Diagnostic pregnancy tests based on immunological reactions between HCG and anti - HCG may result in false - negative or false - positive interpretations .
Glucose Tolerance Test : An increase in blood glucose has been reported in patients receiving promethazine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Promethazine : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess the carcinogenic potential of promethazine , nor are there other animal or human data concerning carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility with this drug .
Promethazine was nonmutagenic in the Salmonella test system of Ames .
Phenylephrine : A study which followed the development of cancer in 143 , 574 patients over a four - year period indicated that in 11 , 981 patients who received phenylephrine ( systemic or topical ) , there was no statistically significant association between the drug and cancer at any or all sites .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess the carcinogenic potential of phenylephrine , nor are there other animal or human data concerning mutagenicity .
A study of the effects of adrenergic drugs on ovum transport in rabbits indicated that treatment with phenylephrine did not alter incidence of pregnancy ; the number of implantations was significantly reduced when high doses of the drug were used .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy category C Promethazine : Teratogenic effects have not been demonstrated in rat - feeding studies at doses of 6 . 25 and 12 . 5 mg / kg of promethazine HCl .
These doses are from approximately 2 . 1 to 4 . 2 times the maximum recommended total daily dose of promethazine for a 50 - kg subject , depending upon the indication for which the drug is prescribed .
Daily doses of 25 mg / kg intraperitoneally have been found to produce fetal mortality in rats .
Specific studies to test the action of the drug on parturition , lactation , and development of the animal neonate were not done , but a general preliminary study in rats indicated no effect on these parameters .
Although antihistamines have been found to produce fetal mortality in rodents , the pharmacological effects of histamine in the rodent do not parallel those in man .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of promethazine in pregnant women .
Phenylephrine : A study in rabbits indicated that continued moderate overexposure to phenylephrine ( 3 mg / day ) during the second half of pregnancy ( 22 nd day of gestation to delivery ) may contribute to perinatal wastage , prematurity , premature labor , and possibly fetal anomalies ; when phenylephrine ( 3 mg / day ) was given to rabbits during the first half of pregnancy ( 3 rd day after mating for seven days ) , a significant number gave birth to litters of low birth weight .
Another study showed that phenylephrine was associated with anomalies of aortic arch and with ventricular septal defect in the chick embryo .
Promethazine and phenylephrine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects – Promethazine administered to a pregnant woman within two weeks of delivery may inhibit platelet aggregation in the newborn .
Labor And Delivery : Administration of phenylephrine to patients in late pregnancy or labor may cause fetal anoxia or bradycardia by increasing contractility of the uterus and decreasing uterine blood flow .
See also " Nonteratogenic Effects . "
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether promethazine or phenylephrine are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when promethazine and phenylephrine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine oral solution is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age ( see WARNINGS – Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ) .
Promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older ( see WARNINGS - Use in Pediatric Patients ) .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of Promethazine Hydrochloride and Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Promethazine : Central Nervous System - Drowsiness is the most prominent CNS effect of this drug .
Sedation , somnolence , blurred vision , dizziness ; confusion , disorientation , and extrapyramidal symptoms such as oculogyric crisis , torticollis , and tongue protrusion ; lassitude , tinnitus , incoordination , fatigue , euphoria , nervousness , diplopia , insomnia , tremors , convulsive seizures , excitation , catatonic - like states , hysteria .
Hallucinations have also been reported .
Cardiovascular - Increased or decreased blood pressure , tachycardia , bradycardia , faintness .
Dermatologic - Dermatitis , photosensitivity , urticaria .
Hematologic - Leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , agranulocytosis .
Gastrointestinal - Dry mouth , nausea , vomiting , jaundice .
Respiratory - Asthma , nasal stuffiness , respiratory depression ( potentially fatal ) and apnea ( potentially fatal ) .
( See WARNINGS - Promethazine ; Respiratory Depression . )
Other - Angioneurotic edema .
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( potentially fatal ) has also been reported .
( See WARNINGS - Promethazine ; Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome . )
Paradoxical Reactions - Hyperexcitability and abnormal movements have been reported in patients following a single administration of promethazine HCl .
Consideration should be given to the discontinuation of promethazine HCl and to the use of other drugs if these reactions occur .
Respiratory depression , nightmares , delirium , and agitated behavior have also been reported in some of these patients .
Phenylephrine : Nervous System - Restlessness , anxiety , nervousness and dizziness .
Cardiovascular - Hypertension ( see " WARNINGS " ) .
Other - Precordial pain , respiratory distress , tremor , and weakness .
OVERDOSAGE Promethazine : Signs and symptoms of overdosage with promethazine HCl range from mild depression of the central nervous system and cardiovascular system to profound hypotension , respiratory depression , unconsciousness , and sudden death .
Other reported reactions include hyperreflexia , hypertonia , ataxia , athetosis , and extensor - plantar , reflexes ( Babinski reflex ) .
Stimulation may be evident , especially in children and geriatric patients .
Convulsions may rarely occur .
A paradoxical reaction has been reported in children receiving single doses of 75 mg to 125 mg orally , characterized by hyperexcitability and nightmares .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms - dry mouth , fixed dilated pupils , flushing , as well as gastrointestinal symptoms , may occur .
Phenylephrine : Signs and symptoms of overdosage with phenylephrine include hypertension , headache , convulsions , cerebral hemorrhage , and vomiting .
Ventricular premature beats and short - paroxysms of ventricular tachycardia may also occur .
Headache may be a symptom of hypertension .
Bradycardia may also be seen early in phenylephrine overdosage through stimulation of baroreceptors .
Treatment : The treatment of overdosage with promethazine and phenylephrine is essentially symptomatic and supportive .
Only in cases of extreme overdosage or individual sensitivity do vital signs including respiration , pulse , blood pressure , temperature , and EKG need to be monitored .
Activated charcoal orally or by lavage may be given , or sodium or magnesium sulfate orally as a cathartic .
Attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Diazepam may be used to control convulsions .
Acidosis and electrolyte losses should be corrected .
Note that any depressant effects of promethazine are not reversed by naloxone .
Avoid analeptics which may cause convulsions .
Severe hypotension usually responds to the administration of norepinephrine or phenylephrine .
EPINEPHRINE SHOULD NOT BE USED , since its use in a patient with partial adrenergic blockade may further lower the blood pressure .
Limited experience with dialysis indicates that it is not helpful .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is important that promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution , USP is measured with an accurate measuring device ( see Precautions - Information for Patients ) .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage , especially when half a teaspoon is to be measured .
It is strongly recommended that an accurate measuring device be used .
A pharmacist can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
Promethazine hydrochloride and phenylephrine hydrochloride oral solution , USP is contraindicated for children under 2 years of age ( see WARNINGS – Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ) .
The recommended doses are given in the following table : Adults and Children 12 Years and Over 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls ( 30 mL ) in 24 hours .
Children 6 to Under 12 Years of Age ½ to 1 teaspoonful ( 2 . 5 to 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls ( 30 mL ) in 24 hours .
Children 2 to Under 6 Years of Age ¼ to ½ teaspoonful ( 1 . 25 to 2 . 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Promethazine Hydrochloride and Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution , USP is a clear , pale yellow to yellow colored , citrus - flavored solution containing 6 . 25 mg Promethazine Hydrochloride , USP , 5 mg Phenylephrine Hydrochloride , USP and 7 percent alcohol in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) Available as : 4 fl .
oz ( 118 mL ) NDC 65162 - 679 - 86 16 fl .
oz ( 473 mL ) NDC 65162 - 679 - 90 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Branchburg , NJ 08876 Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Glasgow , KY 42141 Rev . 05 - 2015 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
