TEP Sealed with printed neckband for your protection Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children unmder 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its atiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 ADA Council Statement " The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs ' Acceptance of Equate Blue Mint Antiseptic Mouthrinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gum line , when used as directed . "
Satisfaction Satisfaction guaranteed - Or we ' ll rdplace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report and undesired reaction or side effect , please cal 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine principal display panel equate Compare to Cool Mint Listerine Active Ingredients Antiseptic Mouthrinse Kills Germs that Cause : • Plaque • Gingivitis • Bad Breath Blue Mint ADA Accepted American Dental Association 1 . 5 Liters ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
