1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is an aminosalicylate indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established ( 1 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults .
Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage is two 800 mg tablets three times daily ( 4 . 8 grams / day ) with or without food for 6 weeks ( 2 . 1 ) • Instruct patients to swallow tablets whole without cutting , breaking , or chewing ( 2 . 2 ) • One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol ® ( mesalamine ) delayed - release 400 mg tablets ( 2 . 2 ) • Recommend that renal function be evaluated prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information For the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis , the recommended dosage of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in adults is two 800 mg tablets to be taken three times daily with or without food , for a total daily dose of 4 . 8 grams , for a duration of 6 weeks .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions Swallow Mesalamine delayed - release tablets whole , do not cut , break or chew the tablets .
One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet has not been shown to be bioequivalent to two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Testing Prior to Mesalamine delayed - release tablets Administration It is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Delayed - release tablets : 800 mg ( 3 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets : 800 mg ( red - brown , capsule - shaped and imprinted with " WC 800 " in black ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients with known hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , and Description ( 11 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Development of Renal Impairment ( for example , minimal change nephropathy , acute and chronic interstitial nephritis renal failure ) : Assess renal function at beginning of treatment and periodically during therapy ( 5 . 1 ) • Mesalamine - induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome : Has been reported .
Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine .
Mesalamine - induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions ( myocarditis and pericarditis ) have been reported ( 5 . 3 ) • Hepatic Failure : Has been reported in patients with pre - existing liver disease .
Use caution when treating patients with liver disease ( 5 . 4 ) • Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction : May lead to a delay in onset of action ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment , including minimal change nephropathy , acute and chronic interstitial nephritis , and , rarely , renal failure , has been reported in patients taking products such as delayed - release tablets that contain or are converted to mesalamine .
It is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and periodically while on therapy .
Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits when using Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Mesalamine - Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis .
Exacerbation of the symptoms of colitis has been reported in 2 . 3 percent of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets - treated patients in controlled clinical trials .
This acute reaction , characterized by cramping , abdominal pain , bloody diarrhea , and occasionally by fever , headache , malaise , pruritus , rash , and conjunctivitis , has been reported after the initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets as well as other mesalamine products .
Symptoms usually abate when Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are discontinued .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to Mesalamine delayed - release tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine .
Mesalamine - induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions ( myocarditis and pericarditis ) have been reported with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and other mesalamine medications .
Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis .
5 . 4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre - existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine .
Caution should be exercised when administering Mesalamine delayed - release tablets to patients with liver disease .
5 . 5 Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction Organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets which would delay release of mesalamine in the colon .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( observed in greater than 2 percent of patients ) were headache , nausea , nasopharyngitis , abdominal pain , and worsening of ulcerative colitis ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch The most serious adverse reactions seen in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets clinical trials or with other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine were : • Renal impairment , including renal failure ( rare ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Acute intolerance syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets have been evaluated in 896 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled studies .
Three six - week , active - controlled studies were conducted comparing Mesalamine delayed - release tablets 4 . 8 grams / day with Asacol ( mesalamine ) 2 . 4 grams / day in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis .
In these studies , 727 patients were dosed with the Mesalamine delayed - release tablet and 732 patients were dosed with the Asacol 400 mg tablet .
( One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] . )
The most common reactions reported in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group were headache ( 4 . 7 percent ) , nausea ( 2 . 8 percent ) , nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 5 percent ) , abdominal pain ( 2 . 3 percent ) , exacerbation of ulcerative colitis ( 2 . 3 percent ) , diarrhea ( 1 . 7 percent ) , and dyspepsia ( 1 . 7 percent ) ; Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in the three studies .
The most common reactions in patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis ( 602 patients dosed with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and 618 patients dosed with the Asacol 400 mg ) were the same as all treated patients .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 9 percent of patients in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and in 4 . 2 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group .
The most common cause for discontinuation was gastrointestinal symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis .
Severe adverse reactions occurred in 7 . 6 percent of patients in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and in 7 . 6 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group .
Most of these reactions were gastrointestinal symptoms related to ulcerative colitis .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 0 . 8 percent of patients in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and in 1 . 8 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group .
The majority involved the gastrointestinal system .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in 1 Percent or More of All Treated Patients ( Three studies combined ) N = number of patients within specified treatment group Percent = percentage of patients in category and treatment group * One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Adverse Reaction Asacol * 2 . 4 g / day ( 400 mg Tablet ) ( N = 732 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets * 4 . 8 g / day ( 800 mg Tablet ) ( N = 727 ) Headache Nausea Nasopharyngitis Abdominal pain Ulcerative Colitis Diarrhea Dyspepsia Vomiting Flatulence Influenza Pyrexia Cough 4 . 9 % 2 . 9 % 1 . 4 % 2 . 3 % 2 . 7 % 1 . 9 % 0 . 8 % 1 . 6 % 0 . 7 % 1 . 2 % 1 . 2 % 1 . 4 % 4 . 7 % 2 . 8 % 2 . 5 % 2 . 3 % 2 . 3 % 1 . 7 % 1 . 7 % 1 . 4 % 1 . 2 % 1 . 0 % 0 . 7 % 0 . 3 % 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving the Mesalamine delayed - release tablet , the adverse events listed below have been reported in controlled clinical trials , open label studies , literature reports , or foreign and domestic marketing experience with Asacol 400 mg tablets or other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : Facial edema , edema , peripheral edema , asthenia , chills , infection , malaise , pain , neck pain , chest pain , back pain , abdominal enlargement , lupus - like syndrome , drug fever ( rare ) .
Cardiovascular : Pericarditis ( rare ) and myocarditis ( rare ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , pericardial effusion , vasodilation , migraine .
Gastrointestinal : Dry mouth , stomatitis , oral ulcers , anorexia , increased appetite , eructation , pancreatitis , cholecystitis , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal bleeding , perforated peptic ulcer ( rare ) , constipation , hemorrhoids , rectal hemorrhage , bloody diarrhea , tenesmus , stool abnormality .
Hepatic : There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity , including jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis , and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome , that included changes in liver enzymes , was also reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ( rare ) , aplastic anemia ( rare ) , anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , eosinophilia , lymphadenopathy .
Musculoskeletal : Gout , rheumatoid arthritis , arthritis , arthralgia , joint disorder , myalgia , hypertonia .
Neurological / Psychiatric : Anxiety , depression , somnolence , insomnia , nervousness , confusion , emotional lability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , paresthesia , hyperesthesia , peripheral neuropathy ( rare ) , Guillain - BarrÉ syndrome ( rare ) , and transverse myelitis ( rare ) .
Respiratory / Pulmonary : Sinusitis , rhinitis , pharyngitis , asthma exacerbation , pleuritis , bronchitis , eosinophilic pneumonia , interstitial pneumonitis .
Skin : Alopecia , psoriasis ( rare ) , pyoderma gangrenosum ( rare ) , erythema nodosum , acne , dry skin , sweating , pruritus , urticaria , rash .
Special Senses : Ear pain , tinnitus , ear congestion , ear disorder , conjunctivitis , eye pain , blurred vision , vision abnormality , taste perversion .
Renal / Urogenital : Renal failure ( rare ) , interstitial nephritis , minimal change nephropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , dysuria , urinary frequency and urgency , hematuria , epididymitis , decreased libido , dysmenorrhea , menorrhagia .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Elevated AST ( SGOT ) or ALT ( SGPT ) , elevated alkaline phosphatase , elevated GGT , elevated LDH , elevated bilirubin , elevated serum creatinine and BUN .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed using Mesalamine delayed - release tablets with other drugs .
However , the following interactions between mesalamine - containing products and other drugs have been reported .
• Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Renal reactions have been reported ( 7 . 1 ) • Azathioprine or 6 - mercaptopurine : Blood disorders have been reported ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Nephrotoxic Agents , Including Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents , including nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may increase the risk of renal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Azathioprine or 6 - mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6 - mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Renal Impairment : Use Mesalamine delayed - release tablets with caution in patients with a history of renal disease ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) • Pregnancy : May cause fetal harm , based on animal data for dibutyl phthalate ( inactive ingredient in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets enteric coating ) ( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits when Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are administered to a nursing mother .
( 8 . 3 ) • Geriatric Patients : Monitor blood cell counts in geriatric patients ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk summary There are no adequate well controlled studies of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets use in pregnant women .
Limited published human data on mesalamine show no increase in the overall rate of congenital malformations .
Some data show an increased rate of preterm birth , stillbirth , and low birth weight ; however , these adverse pregnancy outcomes are also associated with active inflammatory bowel disease .
Furthermore , all pregnancies , regardless of drug exposure , have a background rate of 2 to 4 percent for major malformations , and 15 to 20 percent for pregnancy loss .
No evidence of fetal harm was observed in animal reproduction studies of mesalamine in rats and rabbits at oral doses approximately 1 . 6 times ( rat ) and 3 . 2 times ( rabbit ) the recommended human dose .
However , dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) is an inactive ingredient in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ' enteric coating , and in animal studies in rats at doses higher than 80 times the human dose , maternal DBP was associated with external and skeletal malformations and adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Human data Mesalamine crosses the placenta .
In prospective and retrospective studies of over 600 women exposed to mesalamine during pregnancy , the observed rate of congenital malformations was not increased above the background rate in the general population .
Some data show an increased rate of preterm birth , stillbirth , and low birth weight , but it is unclear whether this was due to underlying maternal disease , drug exposure , or both , as active inflammatory bowel disease is also associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes .
Animal data Reproduction studies with mesalamine were performed during organogenesis in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus .
These mesalamine doses were about 1 . 6 times ( rat ) and 3 . 2 times ( rabbit ) the recommended human dose , based on body surface area .
Dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) is an inactive ingredient in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ' enteric coating .
The human daily intake of DBP from the maximum recommended dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is about 48 mg .
Published reports in rats show that male rat offspring exposed in utero to DBP ( greater than or equal to 100 mg / kg / day , approximately 17 times the human dose based on body surface area ) , display reproductive system aberrations compatible with disruption of androgenic dependent development .
The clinical significance of this finding in rats is unknown .
At higher dosages ( greater than or equal to 500 mg / kg / day , approximately 84 times the human dose based on body surface area ) , additional effects , including cryptorchidism , hypospadias , atrophy or agenesis of sex accessory organs , testicular injury , reduced daily sperm production , permanent retention of nipples , and decreased anogenital distance are noted .
Female offspring are unaffected .
High doses of DBP , administered to pregnant rats was associated with increased incidences of developmental abnormalities , such as cleft palate ( greater than or equal to 630 mg / kg / day , about 106 times the human dose , based on body surface area ) and skeletal abnormalities ( greater than or equal to 750 mg / kg / day , about 127 times the human dose based on body surface area ) in the offspring .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Mesalamine and its N - acetyl metabolite are present in human milk .
In published lactation studies , maternal mesalamine doses from various oral and rectal formulations and products ranged from 500 mg to 3 g daily .
The concentration of mesalamine in milk ranged from non - detectable to 0 . 11 mg / L .
The concentration of the N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid metabolite ranged from 5 to 18 . 1 mg / L .
Based on these concentrations , estimated infant daily doses for an exclusively breastfed infant are 0 to 0 . 017 mg / kg / day of mesalamine and 0 . 75 to 2 . 72 mg / kg / day of N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid .
Dibutyl phthalate ( DBP ) , an inactive ingredient in the enteric coating of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets , and its primary metabolite mono - butyl phthalate ( MBP ) are excreted into human milk .
The clinical significance of this has not been determined .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition .
Exercise caution when Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
See the prescribing information for other approved mesalamine products for the safety and effectiveness of these products in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients should be considered when prescribing Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
Reports from uncontrolled clinical studies and postmarketing reporting systems for Asacol ( mesalamine ) suggested a higher incidence of blood dyscrasias , that is , agranulocytosis , neutropenia , pancytopenia , in patients who were 65 years or older .
Caution should be taken to closely monitor blood cell counts during mesalamine therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Mesalamine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken when prescribing this drug therapy .
It is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets therapy and periodically while on Mesalamine delayed - release tablets therapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for mesalamine overdose and treatment for suspected acute severe toxicity with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets should be symptomatic and supportive .
This may include prevention of further gastrointestinal tract absorption , correction of fluid electrolyte imbalance , and maintenance of adequate renal function .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are a pH dependent delayed - release product and this factor should be considered when treating a suspected overdose .
Single oral doses of 5000 mg / kg mesalamine suspension in mice ( approximately 4 . 2 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) , 4595 mg / kg in rats ( approximately 7 . 8 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) and 3000 mg / kg in cynomolgus monkeys ( approximately 10 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) were lethal .
11 DESCRIPTION Each Mesalamine delayed - release tablet for oral administration contains 800 mg of mesalamine , an aminosalicylate .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets have an outer protective coat consisting of a combination of acrylic based resins , Eudragit S ( methacrylic acid copolymer B , NF ) and Eudragit L ( methacrylic acid copolymer A , NF ) .
The inner coat consists of an acrylic based resin , Eudragit S , which dissolves at pH 7 or greater , releasing mesalamine in the terminal ileum and beyond for topical anti - inflammatory action in the colon .
Mesalamine ( also referred to as 5 - aminosalicylic acid or 5 - ASA ) has the chemical name 5 - amino - 2 - hydroxybenzoic acid ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each tablet contains colloidal silicon dioxide , dibutyl phthalate , edible black ink , ferric oxide red , ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer B ( Eudragit S ) , methacrylic acid copolymer A ( Eudragit L ) , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mesalamine is unknown , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways , that is , prostanoids , and through the lipoxygenase pathways , that is , leukotrienes ( LTs ) and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids ( HETEs ) , is increased in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease , and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin ( PG ) production in the colon .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Plasma concentrations of mesalamine ( 5 - aminosalicylic acid ; 5 - ASA ) and its metabolite , N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( N - Ac - 5 - ASA ) are highly variable following administration of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
The time to peak plasma concentration ( tmax ) is prolonged for mesalamine and N - Ac - 5 - ASA with the median values from various studies ranging from 10 to 16 hours , reflecting the delayed - release characteristics .
Based on cumulative urinary recovery of mesalamine and N - Ac - 5 - ASA from single dose studies in healthy volunteers , approximately 20 percent of the orally administered mesalamine in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is systemically absorbed .
The absorbed mesalamine is rapidly acetylated in the gut mucosal wall and by the liver to N - Ac - 5 - ASA which is excreted mainly by the kidney .
The PK parameters following administration of 1600 mg three times daily in healthy subjects are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Mean ( ± S . D . ) PK parameters in healthy subjects following administration of two 800 mg tablets three times daily for 6 days ( n = 16 ) * n = 11 , # n = 6 Mesalamine N - Ac - 5 - ASA AUCtau ( mcg h / mL ) 20 ± 14 25 ± 11 Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 5 . 0 ± 4 . 0 4 . 6 ± 2 . 5 t1 / 2 ( h ) 12 . 6 ± 10 . 9 * 23 . 6 ± 11 . 2 # A high fat meal does not affect the extent of systemic exposure to mesalamine after single - dose administration of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets , but mesalamine Cmax decreases by 47 percent and tmax is delayed by 14 hours under fed conditions .
One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet has not been shown to be bioequivalent to two Asacol 400 mg tablets .
In a single dose , cross - over pharmacokinetic study in 20 healthy volunteers , the mean mesalamine Cmax was 36 percent lower and the mean mesalamine AUC was 25 percent lower with administration of one Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablets relative to two Asacol 400 mg tablets .
Because the mechanism of action of mesalamine appears to be topical , the impact of these differences in measures of systemic exposure on clinical efficacy is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary mesalamine was not carcinogenic in rats at doses as high as 480 mg / kg / day , or in mice at 2000 mg / kg / day .
These doses are approximately 0 . 8 and 1 . 7 times the 4 . 8 g / day Mesalamine delayed - release tablets dose ( based on body surface area ) .
Mesalamine was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay , and the mouse micronucleus test .
Mesalamine , at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 8 times the recommended human treatment dose based on body surface area ) , was found to have no effect on fertility or reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In animal studies ( rats , mice , dogs ) , the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity .
( In the following , comparisons of animal dosing to recommended human dosing are based on body surface area and a 4 . 8 g / day dose for a 50 kg person . )
Mesalamine causes renal papillary necrosis in rats at single doses of approximately 750 mg / kg to 1000 mg / kg ( 1 . 3 to 1 . 7 times the recommended human dose ) .
Doses of 170 and 360 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 3 and 0 . 6 times the recommended human dose ) given to rats for six months produced papillary necrosis , papillary edema , tubular degeneration , tubular mineralization , and urothelial hyperplasia .
In mice , oral doses of 4000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 . 4 times the recommended human dose ) for three months produced tubular nephrosis , multifocal / diffuse tubulo - interstitial inflammation , and multifocal / diffuse papillary necrosis .
In dogs , single doses of 6000 mg ( approximately 6 . 25 times the recommended human dose ) of delayed - release mesalamine tablets resulted in renal papillary necrosis but were not fatal .
Renal changes have occurred in dogs given chronic administration of mesalamine at doses of 80 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis The efficacy of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets at 4 . 8 g / day was studied in a six - week , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled study in 772 patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
Moderately active UC was defined as a Physician ' s Global Assessment ( PGA ) score of 2 ; the PGA is a four - point scale ( 0 to 3 ) that encompasses the clinical assessments of rectal bleeding , stool frequency , and sigmoidoscopy findings .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets 4 . 8 g / day group ( two Mesalamine delayed - release tablets three times a day ) or the Asacol ( mesalamine ) 2 . 4 g / day group ( two Asacol 400 mg tablets three times a day ) .
( One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet has not been shown to be bioequivalent to two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] . )
Patients characteristically had a history of previous use of oral 5 - ASAs ( 86 percent ) , steroids ( 41 percent ) , and rectal therapies ( 49 percent ) , and demonstrated clinical symptoms of three or more stools over normal per day ( 87 percent ) and obvious blood in the stool most or all of the time ( 70 percent ) .
The study population was primarily Caucasian ( 97 percent ) , had a mean age of 43 years ( 8 percent aged 65 years or older ) , and included slightly more males ( 56 percent ) than females ( 44 percent ) .
The primary endpoint was treatment success defined as improvement from baseline to Week 6 based on the PGA .
Treatment success rates were similar in the two groups : 70 percent in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and 66 percent in the Asacol group ( difference : 5 percent ; 95 percent CI : [ - 1 . 9 percent , 11 . 2 percent ] ) .
A second controlled study supported the efficacy of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets at 4 . 8 g / day .
Treatment success was 72 percent in patients with moderately active UC treated with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are available as red - brown , capsule - shaped tablets containing 800 mg mesalamine and imprinted with " WC 800 " in black .
NDC 68382 - 484 - 28 Bottle of 180 tablets Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Instruct patients to swallow the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets whole , taking care not to break , cut , or chew the tablets , because the coating is an important part of the delayed - release formulation .
• Inform patients that if they are switching from a previous oral mesalamine therapy to Mesalamine delayed - release tablets they should discontinue their previous oral mesalamine therapy and follow the dosing instructions for Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
Inform patients that they should not substitute one Mesalamine delayed - release tablet with two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Inform patients that intact , partially intact , and / or tablet shells have been reported in the stool .
Instruct patients to contact their physician if this occurs repeatedly .
• Instruct patients to protect Mesalamine delayed - release tablets from moisture .
Instruct patients to close the container tightly and to leave any desiccant pouches present in the bottle along with the tablets .
• Advise women who are pregnant , breastfeeding , or of childbearing potential that Mesalamine delayed - release tablets contain dibutyl phthalate , which caused malformations and adverse effects on the male reproductive system in animal studies .
Dibutyl phthalate is excreted in human milk .
Distributed By : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Asacol ® is a registered trademark of Medeva Pharma Suisse AG , licensed to Allergan Pharmaceuticals International Limited .
© 2016 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Rev . 03 / 2016 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Principal Display Panel NDC 68382 - 484 - 28 Mesalamine Delayed - release Tablets 800 mg per tablet 180 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
