Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 9 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AIMOVIG is indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults .
AIMOVIG is a calcitonin gene - related peptide receptor antagonist indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous use only ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Recommended dosage is 70 mg once monthly ; some patients may benefit from a dosage of 140 mg once monthly ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer in the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm subcutaneously ( 2 . 2 ) • See Dosage and Administration for important administration instructions ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dosage of AIMOVIG is 70 mg injected subcutaneously once monthly .
Some patients may benefit from a dosage of 140 mg injected subcutaneously once monthly .
If a dose of AIMOVIG is missed , administer as soon as possible .
Thereafter , AIMOVIG can be scheduled monthly from the date of the last dose .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions AIMOVIG is for subcutaneous use only .
AIMOVIG is intended for patient self - administration .
Prior to use , provide proper training to patients and / or caregivers on how to prepare and administer AIMOVIG using the single - dose prefilled autoinjector or single - dose prefilled syringe , including aseptic technique [ see Instructions for Use ] : • Prior to subcutaneous administration , allow AIMOVIG to sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes protected from direct sunlight [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
This is important for administering the entire dose and helps minimize discomfort .
Do not warm by using a heat source such as hot water or a microwave .
• Do not shake the product .
• Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or discolored or contains flakes or particles .
• Administer AIMOVIG in the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm subcutaneously .
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , or hard .
• Both prefilled autoinjector and prefilled syringe are single - dose and deliver the entire contents .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AIMOVIG is a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to light yellow solution available as follows : • Injection : 70 mg / mL in a single - dose prefilled SureClick ® autoinjector • Injection : 140 mg / mL in a single - dose prefilled SureClick ® autoinjector • Injection : 70 mg / mL in a single - dose prefilled syringe • Injection : 140 mg / mL in a single - dose prefilled syringe • Injection : 70 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled SureClick ® autoinjector ( 3 ) • Injection : 140 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled SureClick ® autoinjector ( 3 ) • Injection : 70 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) • Injection : 140 mg / mL solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AIMOVIG is contraindicated in patients with serious hypersensitivity to erenumab - aooe or to any of the excipients .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
AIMOVIG is contraindicated in patients with serious hypersensitivity to erenumab - aooe or to any of the excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions : If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue administration of AIMOVIG and initiate appropriate therapy .
Hypersensitivity reactions can occur within hours to more than one week after administration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Constipation with Serious Complications : Serious complications of constipation may occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypertension : New - onset or worsening of pre - existing hypertension may occur .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including rash , angioedema , and anaphylaxis , have been reported with AIMOVIG in postmarketing experience .
Most hypersensitivity reactions were not serious and occurred within hours of administration , although some occurred more than one week after administration .
If a serious or severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue administration of AIMOVIG and initiate appropriate therapy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Constipation with Serious Complications Constipation with serious complications has been reported following the use of AIMOVIG in the postmarketing setting .
There were cases that required hospitalization , including cases where surgery was necessary .
In a majority of these cases , the onset of constipation was reported after the first dose of AIMOVIG ; however , patients have also presented with constipation later on in treatment .
AIMOVIG was discontinued in most reported cases of constipation with serious complications .
Constipation was one of the most common ( up to 3 % ) adverse reactions reported in clinical studies [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients treated with AIMOVIG for severe constipation and manage as clinically appropriate [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
The concurrent use of medications associated with decreased gastrointestinal motility may increase the risk for more severe constipation and the potential for constipation - related complications .
5 . 3 Hypertension Development of hypertension and worsening of pre - existing hypertension have been reported following the use of AIMOVIG in the postmarketing setting .
Many of the patients had pre - existing hypertension or risk factors for hypertension .
There were cases requiring pharmacological treatment and , in some cases , hospitalization .
Hypertension may occur at any time during treatment but was most frequently reported within seven days of dose administration .
In the majority of the cases , the onset or worsening of hypertension was reported after the first dose .
AIMOVIG was discontinued in many of the reported cases .
Monitor patients treated with AIMOVIG for new - onset hypertension , or worsening of pre - existing hypertension , and consider whether discontinuation of AIMOVIG is warranted if evaluation fails to establish an alternative etiology .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Constipation with Serious Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions in AIMOVIG clinical studies ( occurring in at least 3 % of treated patients and more often than placebo ) are injection site reactions and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amgen Medical Information at 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of AIMOVIG has been evaluated in 2537 patients with migraine who received at least one dose of AIMOVIG , representing 3040 . 2 patient - years of exposure .
Of these , 2271 patients were exposed to 70 mg or 140 mg once monthly for at least 6 months , 1305 patients were exposed for at least 12 months , and 216 patients were exposed through 5 years .
In placebo - controlled clinical studies ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) of 2184 patients , 787 patients received at least one dose of AIMOVIG 70 mg once monthly , 507 patients received at least one dose of AIMOVIG 140 mg once monthly , and 890 patients received placebo during 3 months or 6 months of double - blind treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Approximately 84 % were female , 91 % were white , and the mean age was 42 years at study entry .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % and more often than placebo ) in the migraine studies were injection site reactions and constipation .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred during the first 3 months in the migraine studies ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring with an Incidence of at Least 2 % for Either Dose of AIMOVIG and at Least 2 % Greater than Placebo During the First 3 Months in Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 Adverse Reaction AIMOVIG 70 mg Once Monthly N = 787 % AIMOVIG 140 mg Once Monthly N = 507 % Placebo N = 890 % Injection site reactions [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] 6 5 3 Constipation 1 3 1 Cramps , muscle spasms < 1 2 < 1 [ 1 ] Injection site reactions include multiple adverse reactions related terms , such as injection site pain and injection site erythema .
[ 2 ] The rate of injection site reactions reported in Table 1 is with the prefilled syringe .
In Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 , 1 . 3 % of patients treated with AIMOVIG 70 mg or 140 mg discontinued double - blind treatment because of adverse events .
The most frequent injection site reactions were injection site pain , injection site erythema , and injection site pruritus .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of AIMOVIG .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions , including rash , angioedema , and anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Constipation with serious complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] , oral mucosal ulceration .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Rash , alopecia .
Vascular Disorders : Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of AIMOVIG in pregnant women .
No adverse effects on offspring were observed when pregnant monkeys were administered erenumab - aooe throughout gestation [ see Data ] .
Serum erenumab - aooe exposures in pregnant monkeys were greater than those in humans at clinical doses .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
The estimated rate of major birth defects ( 2 . 2 % - 2 . 9 % ) and miscarriage ( 17 % ) among deliveries to women with migraine are similar to rates reported in women without migraine .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Published data have suggested that women with migraine may be at increased risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension during pregnancy .
Data Animal Data In a study in which female monkeys were administered erenumab - aooe ( 0 or 50 mg / kg ) twice weekly by subcutaneous injection throughout pregnancy ( gestation day 20 - 22 to parturition ) , no adverse effects on offspring were observed .
Serum erenumab - aooe exposures ( AUC ) in pregnant monkeys were approximately 20 times that in humans at a dose of 140 mg once monthly .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of erenumab - aooe in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for AIMOVIG and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from AIMOVIG or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of AIMOVIG did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION Erenumab - aooe is a human immunoglobulin G2 ( IgG2 ) monoclonal antibody that has high affinity binding to the calcitonin gene - related peptide receptor .
Erenumab - aooe is produced using recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells .
It is composed of 2 heavy chains , each containing 456 amino acids , and 2 light chains of the lambda subclass , each containing 216 amino acids , with an approximate molecular weight of 150 kDa .
AIMOVIG ( erenumab - aooe ) injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , clear to opalescent , colorless to light yellow solution for subcutaneous administration .
Each 1 mL 70 mg single - dose prefilled autoinjector and 70 mg single - dose prefilled glass syringe contains 70 mg erenumab - aooe , acetate ( 1 . 5 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 10 mg ) , and sucrose ( 73 mg ) .
Each 1 mL 140 mg single - dose prefilled autoinjector and 140 mg single - dose prefilled glass syringe contains 140 mg erenumab - aooe , acetate ( 2 . 0 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 10 mg ) , and sucrose ( 65 mg ) .
Enclosed within the autoinjector is a single - dose , prefilled glass syringe .
The solution of AIMOVIG has a pH of 5 . 2 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Erenumab - aooe is a human monoclonal antibody that binds to the calcitonin gene - related peptide ( CGRP ) receptor and antagonizes CGRP receptor function .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in healthy volunteers , concomitant administration of erenumab - aooe ( 140 mg intravenous , single - dose ) with sumatriptan ( 12 mg subcutaneous , given as two 6 mg doses separated by one hour ) had no effect on resting blood pressure compared with sumatriptan alone .
AIMOVIG is for subcutaneous use only .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Erenumab - aooe exhibits non - linear kinetics as a result of binding to the CGRP receptor .
The Cmax mean and AUClast mean following subcutaneous administration of a 70 mg once monthly and a 140 mg once monthly dose in healthy volunteers or migraine patients are included in Table 2 .
Less than 2 - fold accumulation was observed in trough serum concentrations ( Cmin ) for episodic and chronic migraine patients following subcutaneous administration of 70 mg once monthly and 140 mg once monthly doses ( see Table 2 ) .
Serum trough concentrations approached steady state by 3 months of dosing .
The effective half - life of erenumab - aooe is 28 days .
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of AIMOVIG AIMOVIG 70 mg Subcutaneously Once Monthly AIMOVIG 140 mg Subcutaneously Once Monthly Cmax mean ( SD ) [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] 6 . 1 ( 2 . 1 ) mcg / mL 15 . 8 ( 4 . 8 ) mcg / mL AUClast mean ( SD ) null , null 159 ( 58 ) day * mcg / mL 505 ( 139 ) day * mcg / mL Cmin ( SD ) Episodic migraine 5 . 7 ( 3 . 1 ) mcg / mL 12 . 8 ( 6 . 5 ) mcg / mL Chronic migraine 6 . 2 ( 2 . 9 ) mcg / mL 14 . 9 ( 6 . 5 ) mcg / mL [ 1 ] SD = standard deviation [ 2 ] from a single - dose study Absorption Following a single subcutaneous dose of 70 mg or 140 mg erenumab - aooe administered to healthy adults , median peak serum concentrations were attained in approximately 6 days , and estimated absolute bioavailability was 82 % .
Distribution Following a single 140 mg intravenous dose , the mean ( SD ) volume of distribution during the terminal phase ( Vz ) was estimated to be 3 . 86 ( 0 . 77 ) L . Metabolism and Excretion Two elimination phases were observed for erenumab - aooe .
At low concentrations , the elimination is predominantly through saturable binding to target ( CGRP receptor ) , while at higher concentrations the elimination of erenumab - aooe is largely through a non - specific , non - saturable proteolytic pathway .
Specific Populations The pharmacokinetics of erenumab - aooe were not affected by age , gender , race , or subtypes of migraine spectrum ( episodic or chronic migraine ) based on population pharmacokinetics analysis .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment Population pharmacokinetic analysis of integrated data from the AIMOVIG clinical studies did not reveal a difference in the pharmacokinetics of erenumab - aooe in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment relative to those with normal renal function .
Patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) have not been studied .
No dedicated clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of erenumab - aooe .
Renal or hepatic impairment is not expected to affect pharmacokinetics of erenumab - aooe .
Drug Interaction Studies P450 Enzymes Erenumab - aooe is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes ; therefore , interactions with concomitant medications that are substrates , inducers , or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes are unlikely .
Oral Contraceptives In an open - label drug interaction study in healthy female volunteers , erenumab - aooe ( 140 mg subcutaneous , single - dose ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of a combined oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate .
Sumatriptan In a study in healthy volunteers , concomitant administration of erenumab - aooe with sumatriptan had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of erenumab - aooe .
The immunogenicity of AIMOVIG has been evaluated using an immunoassay for the detection of binding anti - erenumab - aooe antibodies .
For patients whose sera tested positive in the screening immunoassay , an in vitro biological assay was performed to detect neutralizing antibodies .
In controlled studies with AIMOVIG [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , the incidence of anti - erenumab - aooe antibody development was 6 . 2 % ( 48 / 778 ) in patients receiving AIMOVIG 70 mg once monthly ( 2 of whom had in vitro neutralizing activity ) and 2 . 6 % ( 13 / 504 ) in patients receiving AIMOVIG 140 mg once monthly ( none of whom had in vitro neutralizing activity ) .
In a long - term study , including 12 weeks of double - blind treatment and up to 256 weeks of open - label treatment , the incidence of anti - erenumab - aooe antibody development was 11 . 1 % ( 25 / 225 ) among patients whose AIMOVIG dose was 70 mg or 140 mg ( 2 of whom had in vitro neutralizing activity ) .
The neutralizing anti - erenumab - aooe antibody positive rate may be underestimated because of limitations of the assay .
Although these data do not demonstrate an impact of anti - erenumab - aooe antibody development on the efficacy or safety of AIMOVIG in these patients , the available data are too limited to make definitive conclusions .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis The carcinogenic potential of erenumab - aooe has not been assessed .
Mutagenesis Genetic toxicology studies of erenumab - aooe have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Mating studies have not been conducted on erenumab - aooe .
No histopathological changes in male or female reproductive organs were observed in monkeys administered erenumab - aooe ( 0 , 25 , or 150 mg / kg ) by subcutaneous injection twice weekly for up to 6 months .
Serum erenumab - aooe exposures ( AUC ) at the higher dose tested were more than 100 times that in humans at a dose of 140 mg once monthly .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of AIMOVIG was evaluated as a preventive treatment of episodic or chronic migraine in three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies : two studies in patients with episodic migraine ( 4 to 14 migraine days per month ) ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) and one study in patients with chronic migraine ( ≥ 15 headache days per month with ≥ 8 migraine days per month ) ( Study 3 ) .
The studies enrolled patients with a history of migraine , with or without aura , according to the International Classification of Headache Disorders ( ICHD - III ) diagnostic criteria .
Episodic Migraine Study 1 ( NCT 02456740 ) was a randomized , multi - center , 6 - month , placebo - controlled , double - blind study evaluating AIMOVIG for the preventive treatment of episodic migraine .
A total of 955 patients with a history of episodic migraine were randomized to receive either AIMOVIG 70 mg ( N = 317 ) , AIMOVIG 140 mg ( N = 319 ) , or placebo ( N = 319 ) by subcutaneous injection once monthly ( QM ) for 6 months .
Patients were allowed to use acute headache treatments including migraine - specific medications ( i . e . , triptans , ergotamine derivatives ) and NSAIDs during the study .
The study excluded patients with medication overuse headache as well as patients with myocardial infarction , stroke , transient ischemic attacks , unstable angina , coronary artery bypass surgery , or other revascularization procedures within 12 months prior to screening .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in mean monthly migraine days over months 4 to 6 .
Secondary endpoints included the achievement of a ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in mean monthly migraine days over months 4 to 6 ( " ≥ 50 % MMD responders " ) , the change from baseline in mean monthly acute migraine - specific medication days over months 4 to 6 , and the change from baseline in mean Migraine Physical Function Impact Diary ( MPFID ) over months 4 to 6 .
The MPFID measures the impact of migraine on everyday activities ( EA ) and physical impairment ( PI ) using an electronic diary administered daily .
Monthly MPFID scores are averaged over 28 days , including days with and without migraine ; scores are scaled from 0 to 100 .
Higher scores indicate worse impact on EA and PI .
Reductions from baseline in MPFID scores indicate improvement .
A total of 858 ( 90 % ) patients completed the 6 - month double - blind study .
Patients had a median age of 42 years ( range : 18 to 65 years ) , 85 % were female , and 89 % were white .
Three percent of patients were taking concomitant preventive treatments for migraine .
The mean migraine frequency at baseline was approximately 8 migraine days per month and was similar across treatment groups .
AIMOVIG treatment demonstrated statistically significant improvements for key efficacy endpoints compared to placebo , as summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Efficacy Endpoints Over Months 4 to 6 in Study 1 AIMOVIG 70 mg Once Monthly AIMOVIG 140 mg Once Monthly Placebo N = 312 N = 318 N = 316 Monthly Migraine Days ( MMD ) Change from baseline − 3 . 2 − 3 . 7 − 1 . 8 Difference from placebo − 1 . 4 − 1 . 9 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 ≥ 50 % MMD responders % Responders 43 . 3 % 50 . 0 % 26 . 6 % Difference from placebo 16 . 7 % 23 . 4 % Odds ratio relative to placebo 2 . 1 2 . 8 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Monthly acute migraine - specific medication days Change from baseline − 1 . 1 − 1 . 6 − 0 . 2 Difference from placebo − 0 . 9 − 1 . 4 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Figure 1 : Change from Baseline in Monthly Migraine Days in Study 1 [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Least - square means and 95 % confidence intervals are presented .
Figure 2 shows the distribution of change from baseline in mean monthly migraine days over months 4 to 6 in bins of 2 days by treatment group .
A treatment benefit over placebo for both doses of AIMOVIG is seen across a range of changes from baseline in monthly migraine days .
Figure 2 : Distribution of Change from Baseline in Mean Monthly Migraine Days Over Months 4 to 6 by Treatment Group in Study 1 Figure excludes patients with missing data .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Compared to placebo , patients treated with AIMOVIG 70 mg once monthly and 140 mg once monthly showed greater reductions from baseline in mean monthly MPFID everyday activity scores averaged over months 4 to 6 [ difference from placebo : − 2 . 2 for AIMOVIG 70 mg and − 2 . 6 for AIMOVIG 140 mg ; p - value < 0 . 001 for both ] , and in mean monthly MPFID physical impairment scores averaged over months 4 to 6 [ difference from placebo : − 1 . 9 for AIMOVIG 70 mg and − 2 . 4 for AIMOVIG 140 mg ; p - value < 0 . 001 for both ] .
Study 2 ( NCT 02483585 ) was a randomized , multi - center , 3 - month , placebo - controlled , double - blind study evaluating AIMOVIG for the preventive treatment of episodic migraine .
A total of 577 patients with a history of episodic migraine were randomized to receive either AIMOVIG 70 mg ( N = 286 ) or placebo ( N = 291 ) by subcutaneous injection once monthly for 3 months .
Patients were allowed to use acute headache treatments including migraine - specific medications ( i . e . , triptans , ergotamine derivatives ) and NSAIDs during the study .
The study excluded patients with medication overuse headache as well as patients with myocardial infarction , stroke , transient ischemic attacks , unstable angina , coronary artery bypass surgery , or other revascularization procedures within 12 months prior to screening .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in monthly migraine days at month 3 .
Secondary endpoints included the achievement of a ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in monthly migraine days ( " ≥ 50 % MMD responders " ) , the change from baseline in monthly acute migraine - specific medication days at month 3 , and the proportion of patients with at least a 5 - point score reduction from baseline in MPFID at month 3 .
A total of 546 ( 95 % ) patients completed the 3 - month double - blind study .
Patients had a median age of 43 years ( range : 18 to 65 years ) , 85 % were female , and 90 % were white .
Six to seven percent of patients were taking concomitant preventive migraine treatment .
The mean migraine frequency at baseline was approximately 8 migraine days per month and was similar between treatment groups .
AIMOVIG treatment demonstrated statistically significant improvements for key efficacy endpoints compared to placebo , as summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Efficacy Endpoints at Month 3 for Study 2 AIMOVIG 70 mg Once Monthly Placebo N = 282 N = 288 Monthly Migraine Days ( MMD ) Change from baseline − 2 . 9 − 1 . 8 Difference from placebo − 1 . 0 p - value < 0 . 001 ≥ 50 % MMD responders % Responders 39 . 7 % 29 . 5 % Difference from placebo 10 . 2 % Odds ratio relative to placebo 1 . 6 p - value 0 . 010 Monthly acute migraine - specific medication days Change from baseline − 1 . 2 − 0 . 6 Difference from placebo − 0 . 6 p - value 0 . 002 Figure 3 : Change from Baseline in Monthly Migraine Days in Study 2 [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Least - square means and 95 % confidence intervals are presented .
Figure 4 shows the distribution of change from baseline in monthly migraine days at month 3 in bins of 2 days by treatment group .
A treatment benefit over placebo for AIMOVIG is seen across a range of changes from baseline in monthly migraine days .
Figure 4 : Distribution of Change from Baseline in Monthly Migraine Days at Month 3 by Treatment Group in Study 2 Figure excludes patients with missing data .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The pre - specified analysis for the MPFID was based on at least a 5 - point reduction within - patient responder definition .
AIMOVIG 70 mg once monthly was not significantly better than placebo for the proportion of responders for everyday activity [ difference from placebo : 4 . 7 % ; odds ratio = 1 . 2 ; p - value = 0 . 26 ] and physical impairment [ difference from placebo : 5 . 9 % ; odds ratio = 1 . 3 ; p - value = 0 . 13 ] .
In an exploratory analysis of the change from baseline in the mean MPFID scores at month 3 , patients treated with AIMOVIG 70 mg , as compared to placebo , showed nominally greater reductions of physical impairment scores [ difference from placebo : - 1 . 3 ; p - value = 0 . 021 ] , but not of everyday activities scores [ difference from placebo : - 1 . 1 ; p - value = 0 . 061 ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chronic Migraine Study 3 ( NCT 02066415 ) was a randomized , multi - center , 3 - month , placebo - controlled , double - blind study evaluating AIMOVIG as a preventive treatment of chronic migraine .
A total of 667 patients with a history of chronic migraine with or without aura were randomized to receive AIMOVIG 70 mg ( N = 191 ) , AIMOVIG 140 mg ( N = 190 ) , or placebo ( N = 286 ) by subcutaneous injections once monthly for 3 months .
Patients were allowed to use acute headache treatments including migraine - specific medications ( i . e . , triptans , ergotamine derivatives ) and NSAIDs during the study .
The study excluded patients with medication overuse headache caused by opiate overuse and patients with concurrent use of migraine preventive treatments .
Patients with myocardial infarction , stroke , transient ischemic attacks , unstable angina , coronary artery bypass surgery , or other revascularization procedures within 12 months prior to screening were also excluded .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in monthly migraine days at month 3 .
Secondary endpoints included the achievement of a ≥ 50 % reduction from baseline in monthly migraine days ( " ≥ 50 % MMD responders " ) and change from baseline in monthly acute migraine - specific medication days at month 3 .
A total of 631 ( 95 % ) patients completed the 3 - month double - blind study .
Patients had a median age of 43 years ( range : 18 to 66 years ) , 83 % were female , and 94 % were white .
The mean migraine frequency at baseline was approximately 18 migraine days per month and was similar across treatment groups .
AIMOVIG treatment demonstrated statistically significant improvements for key efficacy outcomes compared to placebo , as summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Efficacy Endpoints at Month 3 in Study 3 AIMOVIG 70 mg Once Monthly AIMOVIG 140 mg Once Monthly Placebo N = 188 N = 187 N = 281 Monthly Migraine Days ( MMD ) Change from baseline − 6 . 6 − 6 . 6 − 4 . 2 Difference from placebo − 2 . 5 − 2 . 5 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 ≥ 50 % MMD responders % Responders 39 . 9 % 41 . 2 % 23 . 5 % Difference from placebo 16 . 4 % 17 . 7 % Odds ratio relative to placebo 2 . 2 2 . 3 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Monthly acute migraine - specific medication days Change from baseline − 3 . 5 − 4 . 1 − 1 . 6 Difference from placebo − 1 . 9 − 2 . 6 p - value < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Figure 5 : Change from Baseline in Monthly Migraine Days in Study 3 [ 1 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Least - square means and 95 % confidence intervals are presented .
Figure 6 shows the distribution of change from baseline in monthly migraine days at month 3 in bins of 3 days by treatment group .
A treatment benefit over placebo for both doses of AIMOVIG is seen across a range of changes from baseline in migraine days .
Figure 6 : Distribution of Change from Baseline in Monthly Migraine Days at Month 3 by Treatment Group in Study 3 Figure excludes patients with missing data .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied AIMOVIG ( erenumab - aooe ) injection is a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to light yellow solution for subcutaneous administration .
AIMOVIG prefilled autoinjectors and prefilled syringes are not made with natural rubber latex .
Each single - dose prefilled SureClick ® autoinjector or single - dose prefilled syringe of AIMOVIG contains a Type 1 glass syringe and stainless steel needle and delivers 1 mL of 70 mg / mL or 140 mg / mL solution .
AIMOVIG is supplied as follows : SureClick ® Autoinjector • Pack of 1 autoinjector : 70 mg / mL single - dose prefilled autoinjector NDC 55513 - 841 - 01 • Pack of 1 autoinjector : 140 mg / mL single - dose prefilled autoinjector NDC 55513 - 843 - 01 Syringe • Pack of 1 syringe : 70 mg / mL single - dose prefilled syringe NDC 55513 - 840 - 01 • Pack of 1 syringe : 140 mg / mL single - dose prefilled syringe NDC 55513 - 842 - 01 16 . 2 Storage and Handling • Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light until time of use .
• If removed from the refrigerator , AIMOVIG should be kept at room temperature ( up to 25 ° C [ 77 ° F ] ) in the original carton and must be used within 7 days .
Throw away AIMOVIG that has been left at room temperature for more than 7 days .
• Do not freeze .
• Do not shake .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Information on Preparation and Administration : Provide guidance to patients and caregivers on proper subcutaneous administration technique , including aseptic technique , and how to use the single - dose prefilled autoinjector or single - dose prefilled syringe [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers to read and follow the Instructions for Use each time they use AIMOVIG .
Advise patients to let AIMOVIG sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes prior to administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious or severe hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Constipation with Serious Complications : Advise patients that constipation with serious complications can occur with AIMOVIG and that they should contact their healthcare providers if they experience severe constipation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypertension : Advise patients that development of hypertension and worsening of pre - existing hypertension can occur with AIMOVIG and that they should contact their healthcare providers if they experience elevation in their blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
For more information , go to www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
AIMOVIG ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Manufactured by : Amgen Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 U . S . A . U . S . License No . 1080 Patent : http : / / pat . amgen . com / aimovig / © 2018 - 2022 Amgen Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ part number ] V9 Patient Information AIMOVIG ® ( AIM - oh - vig ) ( erenumab - aooe ) injection , for subcutaneous use This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ part number ] v7 Revised : 9 / 2022 What is AIMOVIG ?
AIMOVIG is a prescription medicine used for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults .
It is not known if AIMOVIG is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not use AIMOVIG ?
Do not use AIMOVIG if you are allergic to erenumab - aooe or any of the ingredients in AIMOVIG .
See the end of this Patient Information for a complete list of ingredients in AIMOVIG .
Before you start using AIMOVIG , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you are : • Pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if AIMOVIG will harm your unborn baby .
• Breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if AIMOVIG passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using AIMOVIG .
Tell your pharmacist or healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including any prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
How should I take AIMOVIG ?
• See the detailed " Instructions for Use " on complete information on how to take AIMOVIG .
• Take AIMOVIG exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Before you inject , always check the label of your single - dose prefilled autoinjector or single - dose prefilled syringe to make sure you have the correct medicine and the correct dose of AIMOVIG .
• Also , before you inject , leave AIMOVIG at room temperature for at least 30 minutes protected from direct sunlight .
• AIMOVIG is injected under your skin ( subcutaneously ) 1 time each month .
• AIMOVIG comes in 2 different types of devices : a single - dose ( 1 time ) prefilled autoinjector or a single - dose ( 1 time ) prefilled syringe .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the type and dose that is best for you .
• If you forget to take AIMOVIG or are not able to take the dose at the regular time , take your missed dose as soon as you remember .
After that , you can continue to take AIMOVIG 1 time each month from the date of your last dose .
What are possible side effects of AIMOVIG ?
AIMOVIG may cause serious side effects , including : • Allergic reactions .
Allergic reactions , including rash or swelling can happen after receiving AIMOVIG .
This can happen within hours to days after using AIMOVIG .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms of an allergic reaction : • swelling of the face , mouth , tongue , or throat • trouble breathing • Constipation with serious complications .
Severe constipation can happen after receiving AIMOVIG .
In some cases , people have been hospitalized or needed surgery .
Contact your healthcare provider if you have severe constipation or constipation associated with symptoms such as severe or constant belly pain , vomiting , swelling of belly or bloating .
• High blood pressure .
High blood pressure or worsening of high blood pressure can happen after receiving AIMOVIG .
Contact your healthcare provider if you have an increase in blood pressure .
The most common side effects of AIMOVIG include : pain , redness , or swelling at the injection site and constipation .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of AIMOVIG .
Ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for more information .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Amgen at 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
How should I store AIMOVIG ?
• Store AIMOVIG in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Keep AIMOVIG in the original carton .
This will protect the medicine from light .
• After removing AIMOVIG from the refrigerator , it can be stored at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) for up to 7 days .
• Throw away AIMOVIG that has been left at room temperature for more than 7 days .
• Do not freeze .
• Do not shake .
Keep AIMOVIG and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of AIMOVIG .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use AIMOVIG for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not give AIMOVIG to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It can harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about AIMOVIG that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in AIMOVIG ?
• Active Ingredient : erenumab - aooe • Inactive Ingredients : acetate , polysorbate 80 , and sucrose AIMOVIG prefilled autoinjectors and prefilled syringes are not made with natural rubber latex .
AIMOVIG ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Manufactured by : Amgen Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 U . S . A . U . S . License No . 1080 Patent : http : / / pat . amgen . com / aimovig / © 2018 - 2022 Amgen Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
Instructions for Use AIMOVIG ® ( AIM - oh - vig ) ( erenumab - aooe ) injection , for subcutaneous Use Single - Dose Prefilled SureClick ® Autoinjector 70 mg / mL This Instructions for Use contains information on how to inject AIMOVIG .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Needle is inside the green safety guard .
Important Important Information You Need to Know Before Injecting AIMOVIG : • It is important that you do not try to give yourself or someone else the injection unless you have received training from your healthcare provider .
Storing your AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector : • Keep the autoinjector and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Keep the autoinjector in the original carton to protect from light .
• Keep the autoinjector in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After removing from the refrigerator , the autoinjector may be kept at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) and must be used within 7 days .
Do not put it back in the refrigerator after it has reached room temperature .
• Throw away AIMOVIG that has been left at room temperature for more than 7 days .
• Do not store the autoinjector in extreme heat or cold .
For example , avoid storing the autoinjector in your vehicle ' s glove box or trunk .
• Do not freeze or use the autoinjector if it has been frozen .
Using your AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector : • Do not use the autoinjector after the expiration date on the label .
• Do not shake the autoinjector .
• Do not remove the white cap from the autoinjector until you are ready to inject .
Leaving the cap off for more than 5 minutes can dry out the medicine .
• Do not use the autoinjector if it has been dropped on a hard surface .
Part of the autoinjector may be broken even if you cannot see the break .
Use a new autoinjector , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
• The autoinjector is not made with natural rubber latex .
For more information or help , contact your healthcare provider , visit www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
Step 1 : Preparing to inject AIMOVIG 1 A Remove the autoinjector from the carton .
Carefully lift the autoinjector straight up out of the carton .
Before you inject , always check the label of your autoinjector to make sure you have the correct medicine and the correct dose of AIMOVIG .
Wait at least 30 minutes for the autoinjector to reach room temperature before injecting .
30 minutes This is important for administering the entire dose and helps minimize discomfort .
AIMOVIG may take longer to inject if it has not reached room temperature .
Do not heat the autoinjector .
Let it come to room temperature naturally .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not put the autoinjector back in the refrigerator after it has reached room temperature .
• Do not try to warm the autoinjector by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave .
• Do not leave the autoinjector in direct sunlight .
• Do not shake the autoinjector .
• Do not remove the white cap from the autoinjector yet .
1 B Inspect the AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the medicine in the window is clear and colorless to slightly yellow .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the medicine is cloudy or discolored or contains flakes or particles .
• Do not use the autoinjector if any part appears cracked or broken .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the autoinjector has been dropped .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the white cap is missing or not securely attached .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the expiration date printed on the label has passed .
In all cases , use a new autoinjector , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
1 C Gather all materials needed for your injection .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
On a clean , well - lit work surface , place the : • New autoinjector • Alcohol wipes • Cotton balls or gauze pads • Adhesive bandages • Sharps disposal container ( see Step 4 : Finish ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 D Prepare and clean your injection site .
Only use these injection sites : • Thigh • Stomach ( abdomen ) , except for a 2 inch area right around your navel ( belly button ) • Outer area of upper arm ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) Clean your injection site with an alcohol wipe .
Let your skin dry .
• Do not touch this area again before injecting .
• Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , or hard .
Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks .
• Avoid injecting directly into raised , thick , red , or scaly skin patch or lesion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Get ready 2 A Pull the white cap straight off , only when you are ready to inject .
Do not leave the white cap off for more than 5 minutes .
This can dry out the medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 minutes [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle or green safety guard .
• Do not twist , bend , or wiggle the white cap .
• Do not put the white cap back onto the autoinjector .
• Do not put fingers into the green safety guard .
• Do not remove the white cap from the autoinjector until you are ready to inject .
If you are unable to inject , please contact your healthcare provider .
2 B Create a firm surface at the selected injection site ( thigh , stomach , or outer areas of the upper arm ) , by using either the Stretch method or the Pinch method .
Stretch method [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stretch the skin firmly by moving your thumb and fingers in opposite directions , creating an area about 2 inches wide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pinch method [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pinch the skin firmly between your thumb and fingers , creating an area about 2 inches wide .
Important : Keep skin stretched or pinched while injecting .
Step 3 : Inject 3 A Keep holding the stretched or pinched skin .
With the white cap off , put the green safety guard on your skin at 90 degrees .
The needle is inside the green safety guard .
Do not touch the purple start button yet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 B Firmly push down the autoinjector onto skin until the autoinjector stops moving .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : You must push all the way down but do not touch the purple start button until you are ready to inject .
3 C When you are ready to inject , press the purple start button .
You will hear a click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 D Keep pushing the autoinjector down on your skin .
Then lift your thumb while still holding the autoinjector on your skin .
Your injection could take about 15 seconds to complete .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 seconds [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Window turns from clear to yellow when injection is done .
You may hear a second click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : After you remove the autoinjector from your skin , the needle will be automatically covered .
Important : When you remove the autoinjector , if the window has not turned yellow , or if it looks like the medicine is still injecting , this means you have not received a full dose .
Call your healthcare provider immediately .
Step 4 : Finish 4 A Throw away the used autoinjector and the white cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Put the used autoinjector and white cap in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the autoinjector or white cap in your household trash .
If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • Made of a heavy - duty plastic , • Can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • Upright and stable during use , • Leak - resistant , and • Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• Do not reuse the autoinjector .
• Do not recap the autoinjector or put fingers into the green safety guard .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
4 B Check the injection site .
If there is blood , press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site .
Apply an adhesive bandage if needed .
Do not rub the injection site .
Commonly asked questions What will happen if I press the purple start button before I am ready to do the injection on my skin ?
Even when you press the purple start button , the injection will only happen when the green safety guard is also pushed into the autoinjector .
Can I move the autoinjector around on my skin while I am choosing an injection site ?
It is okay to move the autoinjector around on the injection site as long as you do not press the purple start button .
However , if you press the purple start button and the green safety guard is pushed into the autoinjector , the injection will begin .
Can I release the purple start button after I start my injection ?
You can release the purple start button , but continue to hold the autoinjector firmly against your skin during the injection .
Will the purple start button pop up after I release my thumb ?
The purple start button may not pop up after you release your thumb if you held your thumb down during the injection .
This is okay .
What do I do if I did not hear a second click ?
If you did not hear a second click , you can confirm a complete injection by checking that the window has turned yellow .
Whom do I contact if I need help with the autoinjector or my injection ?
A healthcare provider familiar with AIMOVIG should be able to answer your questions .
For more information , visit www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
AIMOVIG ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Manufactured by : Amgen Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 USA U . S . License No . 1080 © 2018 - 2022 Amgen Inc .
All rights reserved .
< partnumber > Revised : 9 / 2022 v8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] This printed material is recyclable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use AIMOVIG ® ( AIM - oh - vig ) ( erenumab - aooe ) injection , for subcutaneous use Single - Dose Prefilled SureClick ® Autoinjector 140 mg / mL This Instructions for Use contains information on how to inject AIMOVIG .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Needle is inside the yellow safety guard .
Important Important Information You Need to Know Before Injecting AIMOVIG : • It is important that you do not try to give yourself or someone else the injection unless you have received training from your healthcare provider .
Storing your AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector • Keep the autoinjector and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Keep the autoinjector in the original carton to protect from light .
• Keep the autoinjector in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After removing from the refrigerator , the autoinjector may be kept at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) and must be used within 7 days .
Do not put it back in the refrigerator after it has reached room temperature .
• Throw away AIMOVIG that has been left at room temperature for more than 7 days .
• Do not store the autoinjector in extreme heat or cold .
For example , avoid storing the autoinjector in your vehicle ' s glove box or trunk .
• Do not freeze or use the autoinjector if it has been frozen .
Using your AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector • Do not use the autoinjector after the expiration date on the label .
• Do not shake the autoinjector .
• Do not remove the orange cap from the autoinjector until you are ready to inject .
Leaving the cap off for more than 5 minutes can dry out the medicine .
• Do not use the autoinjector if it has been dropped on a hard surface .
Part of the autoinjector may be broken even if you cannot see the break .
Use a new autoinjector , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
• The autoinjector is not made with natural rubber latex .
For more information or help , contact your healthcare provider , visit www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
Step 1 : Preparing to inject AIMOVIG 1 A Remove the autoinjector from the carton .
Carefully lift the autoinjector straight up out of the carton .
Before you inject , always check the label of the autoinjector to make sure you have the correct medicine and the correct dose of AIMOVIG .
Wait at least 30 minutes for the autoinjector to reach room temperature before injecting .
30 minutes This is important for administering the entire dose and helps minimize discomfort .
AIMOVIG may take longer to inject if it has not reached room temperature .
Do not heat the autoinjector .
Let it come to room temperature naturally .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not put the autoinjector back in the refrigerator after it has reached room temperature .
• Do not try to warm the autoinjector by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave .
• Do not leave the autoinjector in direct sunlight .
• Do not shake the autoinjector .
• Do not remove the orange cap from the autoinjector yet .
1 B Inspect the AIMOVIG SureClick autoinjector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Make sure the medicine in the window is clear and colorless to slightly yellow .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the medicine is cloudy or discolored or contains flakes or particles .
• Do not use the autoinjector if any part appears cracked or broken .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the autoinjector has been dropped .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the orange cap is missing or not securely attached .
• Do not use the autoinjector if the expiration date printed on the label has passed .
In all cases , use a new autoinjector , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
1 C Gather all materials needed for your injection .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
On a clean , well - lit work surface , place the : • New autoinjector • Alcohol wipes • Cotton balls or gauze pads • Adhesive bandages • Sharps disposal container ( see Step 4 : Finish ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 D Prepare and clean your injection site .
Only use these injection sites : • Thigh • Stomach ( abdomen ) , except for a 2 inch area right around your navel ( belly button ) • Outer area of upper arm ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) Clean your injection site with an alcohol wipe .
Let your skin dry .
• Do not touch this area again before injecting .
• Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , or hard .
Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks .
• Avoid injecting directly into raised , thick , red , or scaly skin patch or lesion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Get ready 2 A Pull the orange cap straight off , only when you are ready to inject .
Do not leave the orange cap off for more than 5 minutes .
This can dry out the medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 minutes It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle or yellow safety guard .
• Do not twist , bend , or wiggle the orange cap .
• Do not put the orange cap back onto the autoinjector .
• Do not put fingers into the yellow safety guard .
• Do not remove the orange cap from the autoinjector until you are ready to inject .
If you are unable to inject , pleaes contact your healthcare provider .
2 B Create a firm surface at the selected injection site ( thigh , stomach , or outer areas of the upper arm ) , by using either the Stretch method or the Pinch method .
Stretch method [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stretch the skin firmly by moving your thumb and fingers in opposite directions , creating an area about 2 inches wide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pinch method [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pinch the skin firmly between your thumb and fingers , creating an area about 2 inches wide .
Important : Keep skin stretched or pinched while injecting .
Step 3 : Inject 3 A Keep holding the stretched or pinched skin .
With the orange cap off , put the yellow safety guard on your skin at 90 degrees .
The needle is inside the yellow safety guard .
Do not touch the gray start button yet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 B Firmly push down the autoinjector onto skin until the autoinjector stops moving .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : You must push all the way down but do not touch the gray start button until you are ready to inject .
3 C When you are ready to inject , press the gray start button .
You will hear a click .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 D Keep pushing the autoinjector down on your skin .
Then lift your thumb while still holding the autoinjector on your skin .
Your injection could take about 15 seconds to complete .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 seconds [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Window turns from clear to yellow when injection is done .
You may hear a second click [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : After you remove the autoinjector from your skin , the needle will be automatically covered .
Important : When you remove the autoinjector , if the window has not turned yellow , or if it looks like the medicine is still injecting , this means you have not received a full dose .
Call your healthcare provider immediately .
Step 4 : Finish 4 A Throw away the used autoinjector and the orange cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Put the used autoinjector and orange cap in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the autoinjector or orange cap in your household trash .
If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • Made of a heavy - duty plastic , • Can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • Upright and stable during use , • Leak - resistant , and • Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• Do not reuse the autoinjector .
• Do not recap the autoinjector or put fingers into the yellow safety guard .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
4 B Check the injection site .
If there is blood , press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site .
Apply an adhesive bandage if needed .
Do not rub the injection site .
Commonly asked questions What will happen if I press the gray start button before I am ready to do the injection on my skin ?
Even when you press the gray start button , the injection will only happen when the yellow safety guard is also pushed into the autoinjector .
Can I move the autoinjector around on my skin while I am choosing an injection site ?
It is okay to move the autoinjector around on the injection site as long as you do not press the gray start button .
However , if you press the gray start button and the yellow safety guard is pushed into the autoinjector , the injection will begin .
Can I release the gray start button after I start my injection ?
You can release the gray start button , but continue to hold the autoinjector firmly against your skin during the injection .
Will the gray start button pop up after I release my thumb ?
The gray start button may not pop up after you release your thumb if you held your thumb down during the injection .
This is okay .
What do I do if I did not hear a second click ?
If you did not hear a second click , you can confirm a complete injection by checking that the window has turned yellow .
Whom do I contact if I need help with the autoinjector or my injection ?
A healthcare provider familiar with AIMOVIG should be able to answer your questions .
For more information , visit www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
AIMOVIG ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Manufactured by : Amgen Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 USA U . S . License No . 1080 © 2019 - 2022 Amgen Inc .
All rights reserved .
< partnumber > Revised : 9 / 2022 v7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] This printed material is recyclable .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use AIMOVIG ® ( AIM - oh - vig ) ( erenumab - aooe ) Injection , For Subcutaneous Use Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe 70 mg / mL and 140 mg / mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : Needle is inside the gray needle cap .
Important Before you use AIMOVIG prefilled syringe , read this important information : Storing your AIMOVIG prefilled syringe • Keep the syringe out of the reach of children .
• Keep the syringe in the original carton to protect from light .
• The syringe should be kept in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After removing AIMOVIG from the refrigerator , it can be stored at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) for up to 7 days .
• Throw away AIMOVIG that has been left at room temperature for more than 7 days .
• Do not freeze .
Using your AIMOVIG prefilled syringe • It is important that you do not try to give the injection unless you or your caregiver has received training from your healthcare provider .
• Do not use a syringe after the expiration date on the label .
• Do not shake the syringe .
• Do not remove the gray needle cap from the syringe until you are ready to inject .
• Do not use the syringe if it has been frozen .
• Do not use a syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface .
Part of the syringe may be broken even if you cannot see the break .
Use a new syringe , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
• The prefilled syringe is not made with natural rubber latex .
Step 1 : Prepare AIMOVIG comes as a single - dose ( 1 time ) prefilled syringe .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the dose that is best for you .
Before you inject , always check the label of your single - dose prefilled syringe to make sure you have the correct medicine and the correct dose of AIMOVIG .
A Remove AIMOVIG prefilled syringe from the carton .
Grab the syringe barrel to remove the syringe from the tray .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Place finger or thumb on edge of tray to secure it while you remove the syringe .
Grab Here For safety reasons : • Do not grab the plunger rod .
• Do not grab the gray needle cap .
• Do not remove the gray needle cap until you are ready to inject .
• Do not remove the finger flange .
This is part of the syringe .
Leave the syringe at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before injecting .
• Do not put the syringe back in the refrigerator after it has reached room temperature .
• Do not try to warm the syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave .
• Do not leave the syringe in direct sunlight .
• Do not shake the syringe .
Important : Always hold the prefilled syringe by the syringe barrel .
B Inspect the AIMOVIG prefilled syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Always hold the syringe by the syringe barrel .
Make sure the medicine in the syringe is clear and colorless to slightly yellow .
• Do not use the syringe if the medicine is cloudy or discolored or contains flakes or particles .
• Do not use the syringe if any part appears cracked or broken .
• Do not use the syringe if the syringe has been dropped .
• Do not use the syringe if the gray needle cap is missing or not securely attached .
• Do not use the syringe if the expiration date printed on the label has passed .
In all cases , use a new syringe , and call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
C Gather all materials needed for your injection .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
On a clean , well - lit work surface , place the : • New syringe • Alcohol wipes • Cotton balls or gauze pads • Adhesive bandages • Sharps disposal container [ MULTIMEDIA ] D Prepare and clean your injection site .
Only use these injection sites : • Your thigh • Stomach area ( abdomen ) , except for a two inch area right around your navel • Outer area of upper arm ( only if someone else is giving you the injection ) Clean your injection site with an alcohol wipe .
Let your skin dry .
• Do not touch this area again before injecting .
• Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender , bruised , red , or hard .
Avoid injecting directly into raised , thick , red , or scaly skin patch or lesion , or areas with scars or stretch marks .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Get ready E Pull gray needle cap straight out and away from your body , only when you are ready to inject .
Do not leave the gray needle cap off for more than five minutes .
This can dry out the medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle .
• Do not twist or bend the gray needle cap .
• Do not put the gray needle cap back onto the syringe .
• Do not remove the gray needle cap from the syringe until you are ready to inject .
Important : Throw the gray needle cap into the sharps disposal container .
F Pinch your injection site to create a firm surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pinch skin firmly between your thumb and fingers , creating an area about two inches wide .
Important : Keep skin pinched while injecting .
Step 3 : Inject G Hold the pinch .
With the gray needle cap off , insert the syringe into your skin at 45 to 90 degrees .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not place your finger on the plunger rod while inserting the needle .
H Place your finger on the plunger rod .
Using slow and constant pressure , push the plunger rod all the way down until the prefilled syringe stops moving .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] I When done , release your thumb , and gently lift the syringe off of your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important : When you remove the syringe , if it looks like the medicine is still in the syringe barrel , this means you have not received a full dose .
Call your healthcare provider immediately .
Step 4 : Finish J Discard the used syringe and the gray needle cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Put the used AIMOVIG syringe and gray needle cap in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the syringe in your household trash .
If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • Made of a heavy - duty plastic • Can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out • Upright and stable during use • Leak - resistant • Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not reuse the syringe .
• Do not recycle the syringe or sharps disposal container or throw them into household trash .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
K Examine the injection site .
If there is blood , press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site .
Do not rub the injection site .
Apply an adhesive bandage if needed .
For more information , go to www . aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
AIMOVIG ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Manufactured by : Amgen Inc .
One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 - 1799 USA U . S . License No . 1080 © 2018 - 2022 Amgen Inc .
All rights reserved .
Symbol table [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not reuse CAUTION , Prior to use , read the enclosed Instructions For Use for administration information and see package insert for full Prescribing Information Lot number This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 9 / 2022 [ partnumber ] v6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 mg / mL Syringe Carton AMGEN ® 1 x 70 mg / mL Prefilled Syringe NDC 55513 - 840 - 01 Rx Only aimovig ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Injection 70 mg / mL 70 mg / mL Single - dose Prefilled Syringe For Subcutaneous Use Only Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Freeze .
Do Not Shake .
Before injecting , allow AIMOVIG to sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes with cap on , protected from direct sunlight .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For more information , go to Aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
CAUTION , Prior to use , read the enclosed Instructions for Use for administration information and see package insert for full Prescribing Information Do Not Reuse Not made with natural rubber latex [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 mg / mL Autoinjector Carton AMGEN ® 1 x 70 mg / mL Prefilled Autoinjector NDC 55513 - 841 - 01 Rx Only aimovig ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Injection 70 mg / mL 70 mg / mL Prefilled Autoinjector For Subcutaneous Use Only Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Freeze .
Do Not Shake .
Discard Any Unused Portion .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For more information , go to Aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
CAUTION , Consult Accompanying Documents Do Not Reuse Not made with natural rubber latex No U . S . standard of potency [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 140 mg / mL Autoinjector Carton AMGEN ® 1 x 140 mg / mL Prefilled Autoinjector NDC 55513 - 843 - 01 Rx Only aimovig ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Injection 140 mg / mL = 1 dose 140 mg / mL Prefilled Autoinjector For Subcutaneous Use Only Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Freeze .
Do Not Shake .
Discard Any Unused Portion .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For more information , go to Aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
CAUTION , Consult Accompanying Documents Do Not Reuse Not made with natural rubber latex No U . S . standard of potency [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 140 mg / mL Syringe Carton AMGEN ® 1 x 140 mg / mL Prefilled Syringe NDC 55513 - 842 - 01 Rx Only aimovig ® ( erenumab - aooe ) Injection 140 mg / mL = 1 dose 140 mg / mL Single - dose Prefilled Syringe For Subcutaneous Use Only Store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do Not Freeze .
Do Not Shake .
Before injecting , allow AIMOVIG to sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes with cap on , protected from direct sunlight .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For more information , go to Aimovig . com or call 1 - 800 - 77 - AMGEN ( 1 - 800 - 772 - 6436 ) .
CAUTION , Prior to use , read the enclosed Instructions for Use for administration information and see package insert for full Prescribing Information Do Not Reuse Not made with natural rubber latex [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
