Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % , Homosalate 7 . 0 % , Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 1200 F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If a product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• May stain some fabrics .
Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p .
m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Phenylisopropyl Dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 3 Stearate / Isostearate / Dimer Dilinoleate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Principal Display Panel CVS pharmacy 30 SPORT CLEAR SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 UVA / UVB protection sunscreen Continuous spray Non - greasy Formulated for active lifestyles Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) COMPARE TO BANANA BOAT SPORT PERFORMANCE SPRAY NET WT 6 OZ .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
