1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg daily are indicated for use in combination therapy with a luteinizing hormone - releasing hormone ( LHRH ) analog for the treatment of Stage D2 metastatic carcinoma of the prostate .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily are not approved for use alone or with other treatments [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
• Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg are an androgen receptor inhibitor indicated for use in combination therapy with a luteinizing hormone - releasing hormone ( LHRH ) analog for the treatment of Stage D2 metastatic carcinoma of the prostate .
• Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily are not approved for use alone or with other treatments .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for Bicalutamide Tablets , USP therapy in combination with an LHRH analog is one 50 mg tablet once daily ( morning or evening ) , with or without food .
It is recommended that Bicalutamide Tablets , USP be taken at the same time each day .
Treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP should be started at the same time as treatment with an LHRH analog .
The recommended dose for Bicalutamide Tablets , USP therapy in combination with an LHRH analog is one 50 mg tablet once daily ( morning or evening ) .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 .
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 2 .
Dosage Adjustment in Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
In patients with severe liver impairment ( n = 4 ) , although there was a 76 % increase in the half - life ( 5 . 9 and 10 . 4 days for normal and impaired patients , respectively ) of the active enantiomer of bicalutamide no dosage adjustment is necessary [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg Tablets for oral administration .
50 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 1 ) • Women ( 4 . 2 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 . 3 and 8 . 1 ) 4 . 1 .
Hypersensitivity Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or any of the tablet ' s components .
Hypersensitivity reactions including angioneurotic edema and urticaria have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 2 .
Women Bicalutamide Tablets , USP have no indication for women , and should not be used in this population .
4 . 3 .
Pregnancy Bicalutamide Tablets , USP may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are contraindicated in women , including those who are or may become pregnant .
There are no studies in pregnant women using Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be appraised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe hepatic changes and hepatic failure have been observed rarely .
Monitor serum transaminase levels prior to starting treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , at regular intervals for the first four months of treatment and periodically thereafter , and for symptoms or signs suggestive of hepatic dysfunction .
Use Bicalutamide Tablets , USP with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gynecomastia and breast pain have been reported during treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg when used as a single agent .
( 5 . 2 ) • Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are used in combination with a LHRH agonist .
LHRH agonists have been shown to cause a reduction in glucose tolerance in males .
Consideration should be given to monitoring blood glucose in patients receiving Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH agonists .
( 5 . 3 ) • Monitoring Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) is recommended .
Evaluate for clinical progression if PSA increases .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 .
Hepatitis Rare cases of death or hospitalization due to severe liver injury have been reported post - marketing in association with the use of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
Hepatotoxicity in these reports generally occurred within the first three to four months of treatment .
Hepatitis or marked increases in liver enzymes leading to drug discontinuation occurred in approximately 1 % of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP patients in controlled clinical trials .
Serum transaminase levels should be measured prior to starting treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , at regular intervals for the first four months of treatment , and periodically thereafter .
If clinical symptoms or signs suggestive of liver dysfunction occur ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , fatigue , anorexia , " flu - like " symptoms , dark urine , jaundice , or right upper quadrant tenderness ) , the serum transaminases , in particular the serum ALT , should be measured immediately .
If at any time a patient has jaundice , or their ALT rises above two times the upper limit of normal , Bicalutamide Tablets , USP should be immediately discontinued with close follow - up of liver function .
5 . 2 .
Gynecomastia and Breast Pain In clinical trials with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg as a single agent for prostate cancer , gynecomastia and breast pain have been reported in up to 38 % and 39 % of patients , respectively .
5 . 3 .
Glucose Tolerance A reduction in glucose tolerance has been observed in males receiving LHRH agonists .
This may manifest as diabetes or loss of glycemic control in those with pre - existing diabetes .
Consideration should therefore be given to monitoring blood glucose in patients receiving Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH agonists .
5 . 4 .
Laboratory Tests Regular assessments of serum Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) may be helpful in monitoring the patient ' s response .
If PSA levels rise during Bicalutamide Tablets , USP therapy , the patient should be evaluated for clinical progression .
For patients who have objective progression of disease together with an elevated PSA , a treatment - free period of antiandrogen , while continuing the LHRH analog , may be considered .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions that occurred in more than 10 % of patients receiving Bicalutamide Tablets , USP plus an LHRH - A were : hot flashes , pain ( including general , back , pelvic and abdominal ) , asthenia , constipation , infection , nausea , peripheral edema , dyspnea , diarrhea , hematuria , nocturia and anemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact DAVA Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 947 - 3282 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 .
Clinical Trials Experience In patients with advanced prostate cancer treated with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with an LHRH analog , the most frequent adverse reaction was hot flashes ( 53 % ) .
In the multicenter , double - blind , controlled clinical trial comparing Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg once daily with flutamide 250 mg three times a day , each in combination with an LHRH analog , the following adverse reactions with an incidence of 5 % or greater , regardless of causality , have been reported .
Table 1 .
Incidence of Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % in Either Treatment Group ) Regardless of CausalityBody System Adverse Reaction Treatment Group Number of Patients ( % ) Bicalutamide Tablets , USP Plus LHRH Analog ( n = 401 ) Flutamide Plus LHRH Analog ( n = 407 ) Body as a Whole Pain ( General ) 142 ( 35 ) 127 ( 31 ) Back Pain 102 ( 25 ) 105 ( 26 ) Asthenia 89 ( 22 ) 87 ( 21 ) Pelvic Pain 85 ( 21 ) 70 ( 17 ) Infection 71 ( 18 ) 57 ( 14 ) Abdominal Pain 46 ( 11 ) 46 ( 11 ) Chest Pain 34 ( 8 ) 34 ( 8 ) Headache 29 ( 7 ) 27 ( 7 ) Flu Syndrome 28 ( 7 ) 30 ( 7 ) Cardiovascular Hot Flashes 211 ( 53 ) 217 ( 53 ) Hypertension 34 ( 8 ) 29 ( 7 ) Digestive Constipation 87 ( 22 ) 69 ( 17 ) Nausea 62 ( 15 ) 58 ( 14 ) Diarrhea 49 ( 12 ) 107 ( 26 ) Increased Liver Enzyme Test [ 1 ] 30 ( 7 ) 46 ( 11 ) Dyspepsia 30 ( 7 ) 23 ( 6 ) Flatulence 26 ( 6 ) 22 ( 5 ) Anorexia 25 ( 6 ) 29 ( 7 ) Vomiting 24 ( 6 ) 32 ( 8 ) Hemic and Lymphatic Anemia [ 2 ] 45 ( 11 ) 53 ( 13 ) Metabolic and Nutritional Peripheral Edema 53 ( 13 ) 42 ( 10 ) Weight Loss 30 ( 7 ) 39 ( 10 ) Hyperglycemia 26 ( 6 ) 27 ( 7 ) Alkaline Phosphatase Increased 22 ( 5 ) 24 ( 6 ) Weight Gain 22 ( 5 ) 18 ( 4 ) Muscoloskeletal Bone Pain 37 ( 9 ) 43 ( 11 ) Myasthenia 27 ( 7 ) 19 ( 5 ) Arthritis 21 ( 5 ) 29 ( 7 ) Pathological Fracture 17 ( 4 ) 32 ( 8 ) Nervous System Dizziness 41 ( 10 ) 35 ( 9 ) Paresthesia 31 ( 8 ) 40 ( 10 ) Insomnia 27 ( 7 ) 39 ( 10 ) Anxiety 20 ( 5 ) 9 ( 2 ) Depression 16 ( 4 ) 33 ( 8 ) Respiratory System Dyspnea 51 ( 13 ) 32 ( 8 ) Cough Increased 33 ( 8 ) 24 ( 6 ) Pharyngitis 32 ( 8 ) 23 ( 6 ) Bronchitis 24 ( 6 ) 22 ( 3 ) Pneumonia 18 ( 4 ) 19 ( 5 ) Rhinitis 15 ( 4 ) 22 ( 5 ) Skin and Appendages Rash 35 ( 9 ) 30 ( 7 ) Sweating 25 ( 6 ) 20 ( 5 ) Urogenital Nocturia 49 ( 12 ) 55 ( 14 ) Hematuria 48 ( 12 ) 26 ( 6 ) Urinary Tract Infection 35 ( 9 ) 36 ( 9 ) Gynecomastia 36 ( 9 ) 30 ( 7 ) Impotence 27 ( 7 ) 35 ( 9 ) Breast Pain 23 ( 6 ) 15 ( 4 ) Urinary Frequency 23 ( 6 ) 29 ( 7 ) Urinary Retention 20 ( 5 ) 14 ( 3 ) Urinary Impaired 19 ( 5 ) 15 ( 4 ) Urinary Incontinence 15 ( 4 ) 32 ( 8 ) [ 1 ] Increased liver enzyme test includes increases in AST , ALT or both .
[ 2 ] Anemia includes anemia , hypochronic - and iron deficiency anemia .
Other adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % , but less than 5 % ) reported in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP - LHRH analog treatment group are listed below by body system and are in order of decreasing frequency within each body system regardless of causality .
Body as a Whole : Neoplasm ; Neck Pain ; Fever ; Chills ; Sepsis ; Hernia ; Cyst Cardiovascular : Angina Pectoris ; Congestive Heart Failure ; Myocardial Infarct ; Heart Arrest ; Coronary Artery Disorder ; Syncope Digestive : Melena ; Rectal Hemorrhage ; Dry Mouth ; Dysphagia ; Gastrointestinal Disorder ; Periodontal Abscess ; Gastrointestinal Carcinoma Metabolic and Nutritional : Edema ; BUN Increased ; Creatinine Increased ; Dehydration ; Gout ; Hypercholesteremia Musculoskeletal : Myalgia ; Leg Cramps Nervous : Hypertonia ; Confusion ; Somnolence ; Libido Decreased ; Neuropathy ; Nervousness Respiratory : Lung Disorder ; Asthma ; Epistaxis ; Sinusitis Skin and Appendages : Dry Skin ; Alopecia ; Pruritus ; Herpes Zoster ; Skin Carcinoma ; Skin Disorder Special Senses : Cataract specified Urogenital : Dysuria ; Urinary Urgency ; Hydronephrosis ; Urinary Tract Disorder Abnormal Laboratory Test Values : Laboratory abnormalities including elevated AST , ALT , bilirubin , BUN , and creatinine and decreased hemoglobin and white cell count have been reported in both Bicalutamide Tablets , USP - LHRH analog treated and flutamide - LHRH analog treated patients .
6 . 2 .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Uncommon cases of hypersensitivity reactions , including angioneurotic edema and urticaria [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] , and uncommon cases of interstitial lung disease , including interstitial pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis , have been reported with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
Reduction in glucose tolerance , manifesting as diabetes or a loss of glycemic control in those with pre - existing diabetes , has been reported during treatment with LHRH agonists .
7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinical studies have not shown any drug interactions between bicalutamide and LHRH analogs ( goserelin or leuprolide ) .
There is no evidence that bicalutamide induces hepatic enzymes .
In vitro studies have shown that R - bicalutamide is an inhibitor of CYP 3A4 with lesser inhibitory effects on CYP 2C9 , 2C19 and 2D6 activity .
Clinical studies have shown that with co - administration of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , mean midazolam ( a CYP 3A4 substrate ) levels may be increased 1 . 5 fold ( for Cmax ) and 1 . 9 fold ( for AUC ) .
Hence , caution should be exercised when Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are co - administered with CYP 3A4 substrates .
In vitro protein - binding studies have shown that bicalutamide can displace coumarin anticoagulants from binding sites .
Prothrombin times should be closely monitored in patients already receiving coumarin anticoagulants who are started on Bicalutamide Tablets , USP and adjustment of the anticoagulant dose may be necessary .
• R - bicalutamide is an inhibitor of CYP 3A4 ; therefore , caution should be used when Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are co - administered with CYP 3A4 substrates .
( 7 ) • Prothrombin times should be closely monitored in patient already receiving coumarin anticoagulants who are started on Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
( 7 ) 8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric patients : Labeling describing pediatric clinical studies for bicalutamide is approved for AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP ' s bicalutamide tablets .
However , due to AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP ' s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of those clinical studies is not approved for this bicalutamide labeling .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 .
Pregnancy PREGNANCY CATEGORY X [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
Based on its mechanism of action , Bicalutamide Tablets , USP may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are contraindicated in women , including those who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
While there are no human data on the use of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in pregnancy and Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are not for use in women , it is important to know that maternal use of an androgen receptor inhibitor could affect development of the fetus .
In animal reproduction studies , male offspring of rats receiving doses of 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 / 3 of clinical exposure at the recommended dose ) and above , were observed to have reduced anogenital distance and hypospadias .
These pharmacological effects have been observed with other antiandrogens .
No other teratogenic effects were observed in rabbits receiving doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 / 3 of clinical exposure at the recommended dose ) or rats receiving doses up to 250 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 times the clinical exposure at the recommended dose ) .
8 . 3 .
Nursing Mothers Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are not indicated for use in women .
8 . 4 .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in pediatric patients have not been established .
Labeling describing pediatric clinical studies for bicalutamide is approved for AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP ' s bicalutamide tablet .
However , due to AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP ' s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of those clinical studies is not approved for this bicalutamide labeling .
8 . 5 .
Geriatric Use In two studies in patients given 50 or 150 mg daily , no significant relationship between age and steady - state levels of total bicalutamide or the active R - enantiomer has been shown .
8 . 6 .
Hepatic Impairment Bicalutamide Tablets , USP should be used with caution in patients with moderate - to - severe hepatic impairment .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are extensively metabolized by the liver .
Limited data in subjects with severe hepatic impairment suggest that excretion of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP may be delayed and could lead to further accumulation .
Periodic liver function tests should be considered for hepatic - impaired patients on long - term therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
No clinically significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of either enantiomer of bicalutamide was noted in patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic disease as compared to healthy controls .
However , the half - life of the R - enantiomer was increased approximately 76 % ( 5 . 9 and 10 . 4 days for normal and impaired patients , respectively ) in patients with severe liver disease ( n = 4 ) .
8 . 7 .
Renal Impairment Renal impairment ( as measured by creatinine clearance ) had no significant effect on the elimination of total bicalutamide or the active R - enantiomer .
8 . 8 .
Women Bicalutamide has not been studied in women .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE Long - term clinical trials have been conducted with dosages up to 200 mg of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP daily and these dosages have been well tolerated .
A single dose of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP that results in symptoms of an overdose considered to be life threatening has not been established .
There is no specific antidote ; treatment of an overdose should be symptomatic .
In the management of an overdose with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , vomiting may be induced if the patient is alert .
It should be remembered that , in this patient population , multiple drugs may have been taken .
Dialysis is not likely to be helpful since Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are highly protein bound and is extensively metabolized .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Bicalutamide Tablets , USP contain 50 mg of bicalutamide , a non - steroidal androgen receptor inhibitor with no other known endocrine activity .
The chemical name is propanamide , N [ 4 cyano - 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ] - 3 - [ ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - , ( + - ) .
The structural and empirical formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bicalutamide has a molecular weight of 430 . 37 .
The pKa ' is approximately 12 .
Bicalutamide is a fine white to off white powder which is practically insoluble in water at 37 ° C ( 5 mg per 1000 mL ) , slightly soluble in chloroform and absolute ethanol , sparingly soluble in methanol , and soluble in acetone and tetrahydrofuran .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are a racemate with its antiandrogenic activity being almost exclusively exhibited by the R - enantiomer of bicalutamide ; the S - enantiomer is essentially inactive .
The inactive ingredients of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , crospovidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , polyethylene glycol , hypromellose , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 .
Mechanism of Action Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are a non - steroidal androgen receptor inhibitor .
It competitively inhibits the action of androgens by binding to cytosol androgen receptors in the target tissue .
Prostatic carcinoma is known to be androgen sensitive and responds to treatment that counteracts the effect of androgen and / or removes the source of androgen .
When Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are combined with luteinizing hormone releasing hormone ( LHRH ) analog therapy , the suppression of serum testosterone induced by the LHRH analog is not affected .
However , in clinical trials with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP as a single agent for prostate cancer , rises in serum testosterone and estradiol have been noted .
In a subset of patients who have been treated with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP and an LHRH agonist , and who discontinue Bicalutamide Tablets , USP therapy due to progressive advanced prostate cancer , a reduction in Prostate Specific Antigen ( PSA ) and / or clinical improvement ( antiandrogen withdrawal phenomenon ) may be observed .
12 . 3 .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Bicalutamide is well - absorbed following oral administration , although the absolute bioavailability is unknown .
Co - administration of bicalutamide with food has no clinically significant effect on rate or extent of absorption .
Distribution Bicalutamide is highly protein - bound ( 96 % ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Metabolism / Elimination Bicalutamide undergoes stereospecific metabolism .
The S ( inactive ) isomer is metabolized primarily by glucuronidation .
The R ( active ) isomer also undergoes glucuronidation but is predominantly oxidized to an inactive metabolite followed by glucuronidation .
Both the parent and metabolite glucuronides are eliminated in the urine and feces .
The S - enantiomer is rapidly cleared relative to the R - enantiomer , with the R - enantiomer accounting for about 99 % of total steady - state plasma levels .
Pharmacokinetics of the active enantiomer of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in normal males and patients with prostate cancer are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Parameter Mean Standard Deviation Normal Males ( n = 30 ) Apparent Oral Clearance ( L / hr ) 0 . 320 0 . 103 Single Dose Peak Concentration ( µg / mL ) 0 . 768 0 . 178 Single Dose Time to Peak Concentration ( hours ) 31 . 3 14 . 6 Half - life ( days ) 5 . 8 2 . 29 Patients with Prostate Cancer ( n = 40 ) Css ( µg / mL ) 8 . 939 3 . 504 13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies were conducted in both male and female rats and mice at doses of 5 , 15 or 75 mg / kg / day of bicalutamide .
A variety of tumor target organ effects were identified and were attributed to the antiandrogenicity of bicalutamide , namely , testicular benign interstitial ( Leydig ) cell tumors in male rats at all dose levels ( the steady - state plasma concentration with the 5 mg / kg / day dose is approximately 2 / 3 human therapeutic concentrations [ 1 ] ) and uterine adenocarcinoma in female rats at 75 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 1 / 2 times the human therapeutic concentrations null ) .
There is no evidence of Leydig cell hyperplasia in patients ; uterine tumors are not relevant to the indicated patient population .
A small increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in male mice given 75 mg / kg / day of bicalutamide ( approximately 4 times human therapeutic concentrations null ) and an increased incidence of benign thyroid follicular cell adenomas in rats given 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 / 3 human therapeutic concentrations null ) and above were recorded .
These neoplastic changes were progressions of non - neoplastic changes related to hepatic enzyme induction observed in animal toxicity studies .
Enzyme induction has not been observed following bicalutamide administration in man .
There were no tumorigenic effects suggestive of genotoxic carcinogenesis .
A comprehensive battery of both in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests ( yeast gene conversion , Ames , E . coli , CHO / HGPRT , human lymphocyte cytogenetic , mouse micronucleus , and rat bone marrow cytogenetic tests ) has demonstrated that Bicalutamide Tablets , USP does not have genotoxic activity .
Administration of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP may lead to inhibition of spermatogenesis .
The long - term effects of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP on male fertility have not been studied .
In male rats dosed at 250 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 times human therapeutic concentrations null ) , the precoital interval and time to successful mating were increased in the first pairing but no effects on fertility following successful mating were seen .
These effects were reversed by 7 weeks after the end of an 11 - week period of dosing .
No effects on female rats dosed at 10 , 50 and 250 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 / 3 , 1 and 2 times human therapeutic concentrations , respectively null ) or their female offspring were observed .
Administration of bicalutamide to pregnant females resulted in feminization of the male offspring leading to hypospadias at all dose levels .
Affected male offspring were also impotent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Based on a maximum dose of 50 mg / day of bicalutamide for an average 70 kg patient .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg Daily in Combination with an LHRH - A In a multicenter , double - blind , controlled clinical trial , 813 patients with previously untreated advanced prostate cancer were randomized to receive Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 50 mg once daily ( 404 patients ) or flutamide 250 mg ( 409 patients ) three times a day , each in combination with LHRH analogs ( either goserelin acetate implant or leuprolide acetate depot ) .
In an analysis conducted after a median follow - up of 160 weeks was reached , 213 ( 52 . 7 % ) patients treated with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP - LHRH analog therapy and 235 ( 57 . 5 % ) patients treated with flutamide - LHRH analog therapy had died .
There was no significant difference in survival between treatment groups ( see Figure 1 ) .
The hazard ratio for time to death ( survival ) was 0 . 87 ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 72 to 1 . 05 ) .
Figure 1 - The Kaplan - Meier probability of death for both antiandrogen treatment groups .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] There was no significant difference in time to objective tumor progression between treatment groups ( see Figure 2 ) .
Objective tumor progression was defined as the appearance of any bone metastases or the worsening of any existing bone metastases on bone scan attributable to metastatic disease , or an increase by 25 % or more of any existing measurable extraskeletal metastases .
The hazard ratio for time to progression of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP plus LHRH analog to that of flutamide plus LHRH analog was 0 . 93 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0 . 79 to 1 . 10 ) .
Figure 2 - Kaplan - Meier curve for time to progression for both antiandrogen treatment groups .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Quality of life was assessed with self - administered patient questionnaires on pain , social functioning , emotional well being , vitality , activity limitation , bed disability , overall health , physical capacity , general symptoms , and treatment related symptoms .
Assessment of the Quality of Life questionnaires did not indicate consistent significant differences between the two treatment groups .
14 . 2 Safety Data from Clinical Studies using Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg are not approved for use either alone or with other treatments .
Two identical multicenter , randomized , open - label trials comparing Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily monotherapy to castration were conducted in patients that had locally advanced ( T3 - 4 , NX , MO ) or metastatic ( M1 ) prostate cancer .
Monotherapy — M1 Group Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily is not approved for use in patients with M1 cancer of the prostate .
Based on an interim analysis of the two trials for survival , the Data Safety Monitoring Board recommended that Bicalutamide Tablets , USP treatment be discontinued in the M1 patients because the risk of death was 25 % ( HR 1 . 25 , 95 % CI 0 . 87 to 1 . 81 ) and 31 % ( HR 1 . 31 , 95 % CI 0 . 97 to 1 . 77 ) higher in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP treated group compared to that in the castrated group , respectively .
Locally Advanced ( T3 - 4 , NX , MO ) Group Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily are not approved for use in patients with locally advanced ( T3 - 4 , NX , M0 ) cancer of the prostate .
Following discontinuation of all M1 patients , the trials continued with the T3 - 4 , NX , MO patients until study completion .
In the larger trial ( N = 352 ) , the risk of death was 25 % ( HR 1 . 25 , 95 % CI 0 . 92 to 1 . 71 ) higher in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP group and in the smaller trial ( N = 140 ) , the risk of death was 36 % ( HR 0 . 64 , 95 % CI , 0 . 39 to 1 . 03 ) lower in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP group .
In addition to the above two studies , there are three other on - going clinical studies that provide additional safety information for Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg , a dose that is not approved for use .
These are three multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel group trials comparing Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily monotherapy ( adjuvant to previous therapy or under watchful waiting ) with placebo , for death or time to disease progression , in a population of 8113 patients with localized or locally advanced prostate cancer .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP 150 mg daily is not approved for use as therapy for patients with localized prostate cancer who are candidates for watchful waiting .
Data from a planned subgroup analysis of two of these trials in 1627 patients with localized prostate cancer who were under watchful waiting , revealed a trend toward decreased survival in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP arm after a median follow - up of 7 . 4 years .
There were 294 ( 37 . 7 % ) deaths in the Bicalutamide Tablets , USP treated patients versus 279 ( 32 . 9 % ) deaths in the placebo treated patients ( localized watchful waiting group ) for a hazard ratio of 1 . 16 ( 95 % CI 0 . 99 to 1 . 37 ) .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , 50 mg are white , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets with " BCM 50 " debossed on one side .
They are supplied as follows : • NDC 67253 - 191 - 03 , Bottles of 30 • NDC 67253 - 191 - 10 , Bottles of 100 16 . 1 .
Storage and Handling Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be informed that therapy with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP and the LHRH analog should be started at the same time and that they should not interrupt or stop taking these medications without consulting their physician .
During treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , somnolence has been reported , and those patients who experience this symptom should observe caution when driving or operating machines .
Patients should be informed that diabetes , or loss of glycemic control in patients with pre - existing diabetes has been reported during treatment with LHRH agonists .
Consideration should therefore be given to monitoring blood glucose in patients receiving Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH agonists .
Manufactured for : DAVA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA Manufactured by : Synthon Hispania S . L . Barcelona , Spain Made in Spain Revised : 06 / 2009 PI - 5002 - 1 Patient Information Bicalutamide Tablets , USP [ pronounced bi - cal - oo - ta - mide ] Read the Patient Information that comes with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are a prescription medicine called an androgen receptor inhibitor , used in combination with lutenizing hormone - releasing hormone ( LHRH ) medicines to treat stage D2 metatastic prostate cancer .
It is not known if Bicalutamide Tablets , USP are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Do not take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP if : • you are a woman .
• you are allergic to any of the ingredients in Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Before you take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including if you : • are a woman ( see who should not take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ) • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • have liver problems • take a medicine to thin your blood .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is a blood thinner .
• have diabetes ( poor blood sugar control has been reported in people taking Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH medicines ) Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how Bicalutamide Tablets , USP works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare providers when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
• Take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP exactly as prescribed .
• Take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP at the same time everyday .
• Your treatment with Bicalutamide Tablets , USP should start at the same time as your treatment with the LHRH medicine • If you miss a dose do not take an extra dose , take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
• Bicalutamide Tablets , USP can be taken with or without food .
• If you take too much Bicalutamide Tablets , USP , call your healthcare provider or Poison Control Center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Do not stop taking Bicalutamide Tablets , USP unless your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider may do blood tests while you take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP • Your prostate cancer may get worse while taking Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH medicines .
Regular monitoring of your prostate cancer with your healthcare provider is important to determine if your disease is worse .
What should I avoid while taking Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Driving and operating machinery .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how Bicalutamide Tablets , USP affects you .
What are the possible side effects of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Bicalutamide Tablets , USP can cause serious side effects .
Get medical help right away , if you have : • trouble breathing with or without a cough or fever .
Some people who take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP get an inflammation in the lungs called interstitial lung disease .
• An allergic reaction .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction include : itching of the skin , hives ( raised bumps ) , swelling of the face , lips , tongue , throat , or trouble swallowing .
• Yellowing of the skin and eyes ( jaundice ) , dark urine , right upper stomach pain , nausea , vomiting , tiredness , loss of appetite , chills , fever , whole body pain .
These may be symptoms of liver damage .
• Poor blood sugar control can happen in people who take Bicalutamide Tablets , USP in combination with LHRH medicines .
• enlargement of breast ( gynecomastia ) and breast pain The most common side effects of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP include : • hot flashes , or short periods of feeling warm and sweating • whole body pain in your back , pelvis , stomach • feeling weak • constipation • infection • nausea • swelling in your ankles , legs or feet • diarrhea • blood in your urine • waking from sleep to urinate at night • a decrease in red blood cells ( anemia ) • feeling dizzy Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
HOW SHOULD I STORE BICALUTAMIDE TABLETS , USP ?
Store Bicalutamide Tablets , USP between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Keep Bicalutamide Tablets , USP and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use Bicalutamide Tablets , USP for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Bicalutamide Tablets , USP to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Bicalutamide Tablets , USP .
If you would like more information about Bicalutamide Tablets , USP talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Bicalutamide Tablets , USP that is written for health professionals .
For more information call 1 - 866 - 947 - 3282 .
What are the ingredients in Bicalutamide Tablets , USP ?
Active ingredients include : bicalutamide Inactive ingredients include : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , crospovidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , polyethylene glycol , hypromellose , titanium dioxide .
Manufactured for : DAVA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Fort Lee , NJ 07024 , USA Manufactured by : Synthon Hispania S . L . Barcelona , Spain Made in Spain Revised : 06 / 2009 PPI - 5003 - 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg 30 Tablets NDC 67253 - 191 - 03 BICALUTAMIDE TABLETS , USP 50 mg 30 tablets Rx only DAVA ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg 100 Tablets NDC 67253 - 191 - 10 BICALUTAMIDE TABLETS , USP 50 mg 100 tablets Rx only DAVA ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
