ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : ALCOHOL 70 . 0 w % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Carbomer , Tetrahydroxypropyl Ethylenediamine , Tocopheryl Acetate , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Hedera Helix ( Ivy ) Stem Extract , Salvia Officinalis ( Sage ) Extract PURPOSE Purpose : SANITIZER WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Do not use on the following body parts . Around the eyes and ears , in the oral cavity , a wide range of body parts and damaged skin ( may have irritating effects ) 2 .
If the following symptoms appear , stop using them immediately and consult a doctor or pharmacist . 1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms such as rash , erythema , itching , and edema2 ) Skin irritation symptoms 3 .
Other precautions1 ) For external use only ( do not underwear ) . 2 ) Be careful not to get into your eyes , and if so , rinse well with clean water and consult a doctor or pharmacist . 3 ) Be careful not to inhale vapor when using it extensively or for a long time ( if you drink ethanol vapor in large quantities or repeatedly , irritation to the mucous membrane , headache , etc . may occur ) .
( Only for products containing ethanol ) 4 ) When repeated use on the same site , be careful as the skin may become rough due to degreasing . 5 ) When used in sealed bandages , cast bandages , packs , etc . , irritation symptoms may appear . 6 ) Do not use this medicine for anal or vaginal poultry as it may cause irritation or chemical burns . 7 ) Do not use for any purpose .
4 .
Precautions for storage1 ) Avoid shading and keep it in shading . 2 ) Keep it out of reach of children , and if a child swallows it , go to the hospital right away . 3 ) After use , close the product completely with a lid to prevent the product from drying out or entering foreign objects . 4 ) Taking it out of the original container and storing it in another container may cause accidents due to misuse or deterioration in quality , so store it in the original container .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep it out of reach of children , and if a child swallows it , go to the hospital right away .
Uses Uses : Disinfection of hands and skin Directions Directions : Take an appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly to dry .
Other lnformation Other lnformation How to save .
Airtight container , storage at room temperature ( 1 ~ 30 ° c ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
