Patient Insert DONNATAL EXTENTABS ® Rx Only Rev . 06 / 07 Description : Each Donnatal Extentabs ® tablet contains : Phenobarbital , USP ( 3 / 4 gr . )
48 . 6 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP 0 . 3111 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP 0 . 0582 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP . 0 . 0195 mg Each Donnatal Extentabs ® tablet contains the equivalent of three Donnatal ® tablets .
Extentabs are designed to release the ingredi ¬ ents gradually to provide effects for up to twelve ( 12 ) hours .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Anhydrous Lactose , Calcium Sulfate Granular , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Dibasic Calcium Phosphate , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate , and Stearic Acid .
Film Coating and Polishing Solution contains : D and C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD and C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Polydextrose , Polyethylene Glycol , Titanium Dioxide , and Triacetin .
The printing ink contains Titanium Dioxide .
ACTIONS : This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific , fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the following indications as “ possibly ” effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Glaucoma , obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon ; myasthenia gravis ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Donnatal Extentabs ® is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
WARNINGS : In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids ( fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Donnatal Extentabs ® may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs .
Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver , they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS : Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension .
Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal Extentabs ® .
It is not known whether Donnatal Extentabs ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Donnatal Extentabs ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Donnatal Extentabs ® is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions may include xerostomia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness : insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; musculoskeletal pain ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; and decreased sweating .
Acquired hypersensitivity to barbituates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma , urticaria , angioedema and similar conditions .
Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling , particularly of the eyelids , cheeks , or lips , and erythematous dermatitis .
Rarely , exfoliative dermatitis ( e . g . Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal .
The skin eruption may be associated with fever , delirium , and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs .
In a few cases , megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital .
Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation , drowsiness , and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The dosage of Donnatal Extentabs ® should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions .
The usual dose is one tablet every twelve ( 12 ) hours .
If indicated , one tablet every eight ( 8 ) hours may be given .
OVERDOSAGE : The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics , and activated charcoal .
If indicated , parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride should be added .
HOW SUPPLIED : Donnatal Extentabs ® Tablets are supplied as : film coated green , round , compressed tablets printed “ P421 ” in black ink .
Bottles of 100 tablets Bottles of 500 tablets Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a well - closed , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Also available : Donnatal ® Tablets in bottles of 100 and 1000 tablets and Donnatal ® Elixir in 4 fl oz bottles and 1 pint bottles .
Manufactured For : PBM Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Gordonsville , VA 22942 Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised June 2007 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66213 - 421 - 10 100 Tablets Donnatal Extentabs ® Each Extentabs tablet contains : Phenbarbital , USP . . . . 48 . 6 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP . . . . . .
.
0 . 3111 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP . . . . . .
0 . 0582 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP . . . . . . . . . 0 . 0195 mg RX only Usual Adult Usage : See accompanying product literature for complete information .
U421 - 10 - 3 PBM Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Charlottesville , VA 22902 Exp .
Date : Control No : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well closed , light resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66213 - 421 - 50 500 Tablets Donnatal Extentabs ® Each Extentabs tablet contains : Phenbarbital , USP . . . . 48 . 6 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP . . . . . .
.
0 . 3111 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP . . . . . .
0 . 0582 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP . . . . . . . . . 0 . 0195 mg RX only Usual Adult Usage : See accompanying product literature for complete information .
U425 - 50 - 2 PBM Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Charlottesville , VA 22902 Exp .
Date : Control No : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well closed , light resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
