Rx Only DESCRIPTION General GLOFIL - 125 ( Sodium Iothalamate I - 125 Injection ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous injection containing approximately 1 mg sodium iothalamate per mL , and 0 . 9 percent benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The radioactive concentration of the material is 250 - 300 µCi / mL as of the calibration date .
Sodium bicarbonate and hydrochloric acid are present for pH adjustment .
Physical Characteristics Iodine - 125 decays by electron capture with a physical half - life of 60 . 14 days .
Photons that are useful for detection are listed in Table 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The specific gamma ray constant for I - 125 is 1 . 43 R / mCi - hr at 1 cm .
The first half value thickness of lead ( Pb ) for I - 125 is 0 . 017 mm .
A range of values for the relative attenuation of the radiation emitted by this radionuclide resulting from interposition of various thicknesses of Pb is shown in Table 2 .
For example , the use of 0 . 28 mm of Pb will decrease the external radiation exposure by a factor of 10 , 000 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To correct for physical decay of this radionuclide , the fractions that remain at selected time intervals after the date of calibration are shown in Table 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The renal clearance of sodium iothalamate in man closely approximates that of inulin .
The compound is cleared by glomerular filtration without tubular secretion or reabsorption .
Following infusion administration of I - 125 iothalamate , the effective half - life is about 0 . 07 days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE GLOFIL - 125 ( Sodium Iothalamate I - 125 Injection ) is indicated for evaluation of glomerular filtration in the diagnosis or monitoring of patients with renal disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS GLOFIL - 125 should not be administered via a central venous line .
WARNINGS None known PRECAUTIONS General As in the use of any radioactive material , care should be taken to minimize radiation exposure to the patient , consistent with proper patient management , and to insure minimum radiation exposure to occupational workers .
Radiopharmaceuticals should be used only by physicians who are qualified by training and experience in the safe use and handling of radionuclides .
Rapid or bolus - like injections should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or whether this drug affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with GLOFIL - 125 .
It is also not known whether GLOFIL - 125 can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
GLOFIL - 125 should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Radioiodine is excreted in human milk during lactation .
It is not known whether GLOFIL - 125 is excreted in human milk .
Therefore , formula feedings should be substituted for breast feedings .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS None Reported Dosage The suggested dose range employed in the average patient ( 70 kg ) is as follows : Continuous intravenous infusion : 20 to 100 μCi ( 0 . 74 - 3 . 7 megabecquerels ) ( Sigman , et al ( 1 ) method ) .
Single intravenous injection : 10 to 30 µCi ( 0 . 37 - 1 . 11 megabecquerels ) Cohen , et al ( 2 ) method ) The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration .
Technique Continuous intravenous infusion Sigman1 method I . Preparation : • Adequate diuresis ( a urine flow exceeding 3 mL / min . )
is established , preferably by an oral water load of 1 , 500 mL two hours prior to the beginning of the clearance study .
2 .
It is not necessary to withhold breakfast or admit the patient the night before .
II .
Procedure : • After the establishment of adequate diuresis , a number 14 or 16 French Foley catheter is aseptically inserted into the bladder .
• An intravenous infusion of Lactated Ringers ( Hartmanns ) solution is started in each arm , one to maintain a site for injection of the GLOFIL - 125 , the other to serve as a site for serial withdrawal of blood .
A two - way stopcock connects the needle and intravenous tubing of each arm .
• The dose is equally divided into ( 1 ) an intravenous priming dose to be injected as is and ( 2 ) a sustaining dose to be diluted in 30 to 60 mL of isotonic sodium chloride , depending on how many collection periods are anticipated .
• The priming dose is slowly injected into one arm .
This is immediately followed by infusion of the sustaining solution through the same site , usually at the rate of 0 . 5 mL / min .
, by means of an automatic pump .
During this infusion , the Lactated Ringers solution in the same arm is discontinued , and 40 to 45 minutes are allowed for equilibration in order to reach a state of constant plasma concentration of radioactivity .
• After attaining equilibrium , consecutive 15 minute collection periods are started .
From the arm opposite the injection site , 5 mL of blood ( allowing duplicate plasma counting volumes ) is drawn six minutes prior to the midpoint of each collection period , placed in heparinized tubes , mixed , and centrifuged .
The blood samples may be obtained through the two - way stopcock after discarding the first 30 mL aspirated into the syringe .
This 30 mL contains the contents of the tubing , including infusion fluid , and must be cleared in order to obtain an undiluted blood sample .
If desired , this step may be eliminated and blood samples obtained by direct venipuncture .
• During each collection period , total urine must be accurately collected and the volume accurately measured .
Three such consecutive collection periods are sufficient for most clinical studies .
III .
Clearance Calculations : 1 .
Aliquots ( 1 mL each ) of plasma and urine from each collection period are counted in a standard gamma - ray scintillation well detector .
2 .
All counts are corrected for background activity .
3 .
Glomerular filtration rate is calculated by the formula C = UV / P , in which : C = glomerular filtration rate in mL / min U = urinary concentration of radioactivity in net counts / min / mL V = urinary flow rate in mL / min P = plasma concentration of radioactivity in net counts / min / mL 4 .
Average glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) is calculated from the rates for the individual collection periods .
GFR can be expressed in terms of body weight ( mL / min / kg ) or body surface area ( mL / min / m2 ) .
5 .
Unilateral glomerular filtration rates can be determined by the same technique by utilizing ureteral catheterization .
Single intravenous injection Cohen2 method : The method of Cohen , et al2 requires little preparation , few and small blood samples , no bladder catheterization , and no constant intravenous infusion .
It is simple to perform , rapid , and utilizes equipment which is readily available in most modern laboratories .
I . Preparation : 1 .
Lugol ' s solution , 3 drops orally , three times a day , is administered for one or two days prior to the test .
No diet or water restriction is necessary .
2 .
Oral water load is begun one hour before starting the test .
Start with 20 mL / kg and force any clear liquids ( unless contraindicated ) until the test is complete .
II .
Procedure : Record actual times for the collection of the blood and urine samples .
1 .
Empty the bladder and label the urine Urine control .
2 .
Inject 10 - 30 µCi GLOFIL - 125 intravenously ; wait 30 to 60 minutes .
3 .
Collect the entire urine and label Urine discard .
4 .
Draw 4 to 5 mL of blood into a heparinized syringe .
Label Plasma # 1 .
5 .
After another 30 to 60 minutes , collect the entire urine and label Urine # 1 .
6 .
Immediately draw another blood specimen .
Label Plasma # 2 .
7 .
After final 30 to 60 minute wait , collect the urine .
Label Urine # 2 .
8 .
Draw the last blood specimen immediately .
Label Plasma # 3 .
III .
Clearance Calculations : 1 .
Radioactivity of one mL aliquots of both urine and plasma are determined using a well - scintillation detector with a single channel pulse - height analyzer .
Sufficiently reproducible counts are usually obtained with time settings of 2 minutes for urine samples and 20 minutes for the plasma samples .
Calculations of the clearance rates are made by using the formula : ( 1 ) C = C = UV / P + 1 . 73 / SA where C = glomerular filtration rate in mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 U = urine radioactivity in counts / min / mL V = urine flow rate in mL / min P = mean plasma radioactivity in counts / min / mL SA = body surface area in m2 Radiation Dosimetry The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average ( 70 kg ) patient from an intravenous dose of 100 µCi ( 3 . 7 megabecquerels ) of GLOFIL - 125 are shown in Table 4 .
Calculations assume that there is 1 % free iodide in the preparation and that the thyroid uptake of the iodine is 25 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Visual Inspection Parental drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to admnistration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Identity No . 1000 , GLOFIL - 125 is a clear , colorless , sterile , and nonpyrogenic solution available as a 4 mL vial .
It is supplied in a concentration of approximately 1 mg / mL sodium iothalamate ( range is 0 . 5 – 2 . 0 mg sodium iothalamate per mL ) , with a radioactivity concentration of 250 to 300 μCi / mL at the time of calibration .
Benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % , is added as a preservative .
Sodium bicarbonate and hydrochloric acid are added for pH adjustment .
The calibration and expiration dates are shown on the label .
Storage Refrigerate the product upon receipt at 2 ° C to 8 ° C . Dose Volume Calculation Table 3 provides the required factors for the determination of activity per mL post calibration date for GLOFIL - 125 sterile solution .
To determine the dose volume , locate the decay factor ( fraction remaining ) which corresponds to the day that the dose is to be administered .
The following equation is then utilized to determine the dose volume : activity of desired dose = dose decay factor x amount of activity / mL on calibration day volume ( mL ) ( information on label ) REFERENCES 1 .
Sigman EM , Elmwood CM , Reagan ME , Morris AM , Calanzaro A .
The renal clearance of 131 I labeled sodium iothalamate in man .
Invest Urol 1965 ; 2 : 432 .
2 .
Cohen ML , Smith FG Jr . , Mindell RS , Vernier RL .
A simple reliable method of measuring glomerular filtration rate using single low dose sodium iothalamate 131 I .
Pediatrics 1969 ; 43 : 407 ADDITIONAL REFERENCES 3 .
Maher FT , Nolan NG , Elveback LR .
Comparisons of simultaneous clearances of 125 I labeled sodium iothalamate ( Glofil ) and of Inulin .
Mayo Clin Proc 1971 ; 46 : 690 - 691 .
4 .
Skov PE .
Glomerular filtration rate in patients with severe and very severe renal insufficiency .
Acta Med Scand 1970 ; 187 : 419 - 428 .
Manufactured by Iso - Tex Diagnostics , Inc .
Iso - Tex Diagnostics , Inc .
Friendswood , TX 77546 800 - 477 - 4839 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
