Active ingedient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses for the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain , associated with : • canker sores • sore mouth and throat • minor injury of the mouth and gums • minor dental procedures • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Stop use and ask doctor if • sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by a fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Adverse Reactions : Methemoglobinemia has been reported following the use of benzocaine on extremely rare occasions .
Intravenous methylene blue is the specific therapy for this condition .
Directions • do not exceed recommend dosage adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area .
Allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of the product children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information • do not use if imprinted seal under cap is broken or missing • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredient flavor , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 238 - 8542 M - F : 8 : 00 a . m . - 4 : 30 p . m . ET Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0283 - 0998 - 31 HURRICAINE ® Topical Anesthetic GEL 20 % Benzocaine Oral Anesthetic FRESH MINT Manufactured for : Beutlich ® Pharmaceuticals , LLC Bunnell , FL www . beutlich . com [ MULTIMEDIA ]
