[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DIFFERIN Gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older .
DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % , is a retinoid , indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash affected areas gently with a non - medicated soap .
Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening .
Avoid application to the areas of skin around eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
A mild transitory sensation of warmth or slight stinging may occur shortly after the application of DIFFERIN Gel .
Instruct patients to minimize sun exposure and to use moisturizers for relief of dry skin or irritation .
If therapeutic results are not noticed after 12 weeks of treatment , therapy should be reevaluated .
For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
• Wash affected areas gently with a non - medicated soap .
( 2 ) • Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel , to the entire face and other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening .
( 2 ) For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each gram of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % contains 3 mg adapalene in an off - white aqueous gel .
Gel , 0 . 3 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DIFFERIN Gel is contraindicated in patients who have known hypersensitivity to adapalene or any excipient of DIFFERIN Gel [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Contraindicated in patients who have known hypersensitivity to adapalene or any excipient of DIFFERIN Gel .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Allergic / Hypersensitivity Reactions : Allergy / hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , and pruritis .
Discontinue DIFFERIN Gel in the event of an allergic / hypersensitivity reaction .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear sunscreen when sun exposure cannot be avoided ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Local Cutaneous Reactions : Erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning were reported with use of DIFFERIN Gel .
Concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Allergic / Hypersensitivity Reactions Adverse reactions including anaphylaxis angioedema , face edema , eyelid edema , lip swelling , and pruritus that sometimes required medical treatment have been reported during postmarketing use of adapalene .
Advise a patient to stop using DIFFERIN Gel and seek medical attention if experiencing allergic or anaphylactoid / anaphylactic reactions during treatment .
5 . 2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during use of DIFFERIN Gel .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with DIFFERIN Gel .
5 . 3 Local Cutaneous Reactions Cutaneous signs and symptoms such as erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning were reported with use of DIFFERIN Gel .
These were most likely to occur during the first four weeks of treatment , were mostly mild to moderate in intensity , and usually lessened with continued use of the medication .
Depending upon the severity of these side effects , patients should be instructed to either use a moisturizer , reduce the frequency of application of DIFFERIN Gel or discontinue use .
Avoid application to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
As with other retinoids , use of “ waxing ” as a depilatory method should be avoided on skin treated with adapalene .
As DIFFERIN Gel has the potential to induce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported ( ≥ 1 % ) adverse reactions were dry skin , skin discomfort , pruritus , desquamation , and sunburn .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Galderma Laboratories , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the multi - center , controlled clinical trial , signs and symptoms of local cutaneous irritation were monitored in 258 acne subjects who used DIFFERIN Gel once daily for 12 weeks .
Of the subjects who experienced cutaneous irritation ( erythema , scaling , dryness , and / or burning / stinging ) , the majority of cases were mild to moderate in severity , occurred early in treatment and decreased thereafter .
The incidence of local cutaneous irritation with DIFFERIN Gel from the controlled clinical trial is provided in the following table : Table 1 : Physician assessed local cutaneous irritation with DIFFERIN GelIncidence of Local Cutaneous Irritation with DIFFERIN Gel ( N = 253 * ) Maximum Severity Scores Higher Than Baseline Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 66 ( 26 . 1 % ) 33 ( 13 . 0 % ) 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) Scaling 110 ( 43 . 5 % ) 47 ( 18 . 6 % ) 3 ( 1 . 2 % ) Dryness 113 ( 44 . 7 % ) 43 ( 17 . 0 % ) 2 ( 0 . 8 % ) Burning / Stinging 72 ( 28 . 5 % ) 36 ( 14 . 2 % ) 9 ( 3 . 6 % ) * Total number of subjects with local cutaneous data for at least one post - Baseline evaluation Table 2 : Patient reported local cutaneous reactions with DIFFERIN Gel DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel Vehicle Gel N = 258 N = 134 Related * Adverse Reactions Dry Skin Skin Discomfort Desquamation 57 ( 22 . 1 % ) 36 ( 14 % ) 15 ( 5 . 8 % ) 4 ( 1 . 6 % ) 6 ( 4 . 5 % ) 2 ( 1 . 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) * Selected adverse reactions defined by investigator as Possibly , Probably or Definitely Related The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1 % of subjects : acne flare , contact dermatitis , eyelid edema , conjunctivitis , erythema , pruritus , skin discoloration , rash , and eczema .
In a one - year , open - label safety trial of 551 subjects with acne who received DIFFERIN Gel , the pattern of adverse reactions was similar to the 12 - week controlled study .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of adapalene : Immune system disorders : angioedema , face edema , lip swelling Skin disorders : application site pain Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from clinical trials with DIFFERIN Gel use in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of adapalene to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at dose exposures 40 and 81 times , respectively , the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 g resulted in fetal skeletal and visceral malformations ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No malformations were observed in rats treated with oral adapalene doses of 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 8 times the MRHD based on a mg / m ² comparison .
However , malformations were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of ≥ 25 mg / kg / day adapalene ( 40 and 81 times the MRHD , respectively , based on a mg / m ² comparison ) .
Findings included cleft palate , microphthalmia , encephalocele , and skeletal abnormalities in rats and umbilical hernia , exophthalmos , and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits .
Dermal adapalene embryofetal development studies in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 9 . 7 and 19 . 5 times the MRHD , respectively , based on a mg / m2 comparison ) exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in skeletal variations ( supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of topical adapalene gel or its metabolite in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
In animal studies , adapalene is present in rat milk with oral administration of the drug .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
It is possible that topical administration of large amounts of adapalene could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for DIFFERIN Gel and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from DIFFERIN Gel , or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breastmilk , use DIFFERIN Gel on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Avoid application of DIFFERIN Gel to areas with increased risk for potential ingestion by or ocular exposure to the breastfeeding child .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 12 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of DIFFERIN Gel did not include subjects 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Safety and effectiveness in geriatric patients age 65 and above have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE Chronic ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of vitamin A . 11 DESCRIPTION DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel contains adapalene 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / g ) in a topical aqueous gel for use in the treatment of acne vulgaris , consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 124 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The chemical name of adapalene is 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid .
It is a white to off - white powder , which is soluble in tetrahydrofuran , very slightly soluble in ethanol , and practically insoluble in water .
The molecular formula is C28H28O3 and molecular weight is 412 . 53 .
Adapalene is represented by the following structural formula .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to cytosolic receptor protein .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization , and inflammatory processes .
However , the significance of these findings with regard to the mechanism of action of adapalene for the treatment of acne is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical pharmacodynamic studies have not been conducted for DIFFERIN Gel .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic exposure of adapalene following topical application of DIFFERIN Gel was evaluated in a clinical trial .
Sixteen acne subjects were treated once daily for 10 days with 2 grams of DIFFERIN Gel applied to the face , chest and back , corresponding to approximately 2 mg / cm2 .
Fifteen subjects had quantifiable ( LOQ = 0 . 1 ng / mL ) adapalene levels resulting in a mean Cmax of 0 . 553 ± 0 . 466 ng / mL on Day 10 of treatment .
The mean AUC0 - 24 hr was 8 . 37 ± 8 . 46 ng . h / mL as determined in 15 of the 16 subjects on Day 10 .
The terminal apparent half - life , determined in 15 of 16 subjects , ranged from 7 to 51 hours , with a mean of 17 . 2 ± 10 . 2 hours .
Adapalene was rapidly cleared from plasma and was not detected 72 hours after the last application for all but one subject .
Exposure of potential circulating metabolites of adapalene was not measured .
Excretion of adapalene appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
In another clinical trial in subjects with moderate to moderately severe acne , DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % or Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % was applied to the face and optionally to the trunk , once daily for 12 weeks .
Seventy - eight ( 78 ) subjects had plasma adapalene levels evaluated at Weeks 2 , 8 , and 12 .
Of the 209 plasma samples analyzed , adapalene concentrations were below the limit of detection ( LOD = 0 . 15 ng / mL ) of the method in all samples but three .
For the three samples , traces of adapalene below the limit of quantification ( LOQ = 0 . 25 ng / mL ) of the method were found .
One of these samples was taken at Week 12 from a male subject treated with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % who treated the face and the trunk for eight weeks ( thereafter , only the face was treated ) .
The second and third samples were from the Week 2 and 12 visits of a female subject treated with Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % who treated only the face for 12 weeks .
In this study , the average daily usage of product was 1 g / day .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , genotoxicity , or impairment of fertility studies were conducted with DIFFERIN Gel .
Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene were conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 4 , 1 . 3 , and 4 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 2 , 3 . 9 , and 12 mg / m2 / day ) and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 , 3 . 0 , and 9 . 0 mg / m2 / day ) .
The highest dose levels are 3 . 2 ( mice ) and 2 . 4 ( rats ) times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 comparison .
In the rat study , an increased incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas reported in the adrenal medulla of male rats was observed .
Adapalene was not mutagenic or genotoxic in vitro ( Ames test , Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , or mouse lymphoma TK assay ) or in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
In rat oral studies , 20 mg / kg / day adapalene ( 32 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 comparison ) did not affect the reproductive performance and fertility of F0 males and females or the growth , development , or reproductive function of F1 offspring 14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of once daily use of DIFFERIN Gel for treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in one 12 week , multi - center , controlled , clinical trial , conducted in a total of 653 subjects 12 to 52 years of age with acne vulgaris of mild to moderate severity .
All female subjects of child - bearing potential enrolled in the trial were required to have a negative urine pregnancy test at the beginning of the trial and were required to practice a highly effective method of contraception during the trial .
Female subjects who were pregnant , nursing or planning to become pregnant were excluded from the trial .
Subjects enrolled in the trial were Caucasian ( 72 % ) , Hispanic ( 12 % ) , African - American ( 10 % ) , Asian ( 3 % ) , and other ( 2 % ) .
An equal number of males ( 49 . 5 % ) and females ( 50 . 5 % ) enrolled .
Success was defined as “ Clear ” or “ Almost Clear ” in the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) .
The success rate , mean reduction , and percent reduction in acne lesion counts from Baseline after 12 weeks of treatment are presented in the following table : Table 3 : Clinical study primary efficacy results at Week 12 DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % Vehicle Gel N = 258 N = 261 N = 134 IGA Success Rate 53 ( 21 % ) 41 ( 16 % ) 12 ( 9 % ) Inflammatory Lesions Mean Baseline Count Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 27 . 7 14 . 4 ( 51 . 6 % ) 28 . 1 13 . 9 ( 49 . 7 % ) 27 . 2 11 . 2 ( 40 . 7 % ) Non - Inflammatory Lesions Mean Baseline Count Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 39 . 4 16 . 3 ( 39 . 7 % ) 41 . 0 15 . 2 ( 35 . 2 % ) 40 . 0 10 . 3 ( 27 . 2 % ) Total Lesions Mean Baseline Count Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 67 . 1 30 . 6 ( 45 . 3 % ) 69 . 1 29 . 0 ( 41 . 8 % ) 67 . 2 21 . 4 ( 33 . 7 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % is supplied in the following size .
15 g tube - NDC 0299 - 5918 - 15 45 g tube – NDC 0299 - 5918 - 45 45 g pump - NDC 0299 - 5918 - 25 Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Information for Patients Patients using DIFFERIN Gel should receive the following information and instructions : • Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening .
Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening , after washing gently with a non - medicated soap .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes • Moisturizers may be used if necessary ; however , products containing alpha hydroxy or glycolic acids should be avoided .
• This medication should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous , or sunburned skin .
• Wax depilation should not be performed on treated skin due to the potential for skin erosions .
• Minimize exposure to sunlight including sunlamps .
Recommend the use of sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided .
• Contact the doctor if skin rash , pruritus , hives , chest pain , edema , and shortness of breath occurs , as these may be signs of allergy or hypersensitivity .
• This product is for external use only .
• Lactation : Use DIFFERIN Gel on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Avoid application of DIFFERIN Gel to areas with increased risk for potential ingestion by or ocular exposure to the breastfeeding child .
[ See Use in Specific Populations , Lactation ( 8 . 2 ) ] Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Dallas , TX 75201 USA Made in Canada .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P52321 - 1 Patient Information DIFFERIN ® [ Dif - er - in ] ( adapalene ) Gel Important : For use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use DIFFERIN Gel in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read this Patient Information that comes with DIFFERIN Gel before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your treatment or your medical condition .
If you have any questions about DIFFERIN Gel talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
What is DIFFERIN Gel ?
DIFFERIN Gel is a prescription medicine for skin use only ( topical ) used to treat acne vulgaris in people 12 years of age and older .
Acne vulgaris is a condition in which the skin has blackheads , whiteheads and pimples .
It is not known if DIFFERIN Gel is safe and effective in children younger than 12 years of age or in people 65 years of age and older .
Who should not use DIFFERIN Gel ?
Do not use DIFFERIN Gel if you : • are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in DIFFERIN Gel .
See the end of this Patient Information for a complete list of ingredients in DIFFERIN Gel .
What should I tell my doctor before using DIFFERIN Gel ?
Before you use DIFFERIN Gel , tell your doctor if you : • have other skin problems , including cuts or sunburn • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if DIFFERIN Gel , can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if DIFFERIN Gel passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use DIFFERIN Gel .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you use any other medicine for acne .
Using DIFFERIN Gel with topical medicines that contain sulfur , resorcinol or salicylic acid may cause skin irritation .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use DIFFERIN Gel ?
• Use DIFFERIN Gel exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
DIFFERIN Gel is for skin use only .
Do not use DIFFERIN Gel in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
• Apply DIFFERIN Gel 1 time a day .
Do not use more DIFFERIN Gel than you need to cover the treatment area .
Using too much DIFFERIN Gel or using it more than 1 time a day may increase your chance of skin irritation .
Applying DIFFERIN Gel : • Wash the area where DIFFERIN Gel will be applied with a soap that does not contain a medicine and pat dry .
• DIFFERIN Gel comes in a tube and a pump .
If you have been prescribed the : • Tube : Squeeze a small amount onto your fingertips and spread a thin layer over the entire face and any other affected areas .
• Pump : Depress the pump to dispense a small amount of DIFFERIN Gel and spread a thin layer over the entire face and any other affected area .
What should I avoid while using DIFFERIN Gel ?
• You should avoid spending time in sunlight or artificial sunlight , such as tanning beds or sunlamps .
DIFFERIN Gel can make your skin sensitive to sun and the light from tanning beds and sunlamps .
You should wear sunscreen and wear hat and clothes that cover the areas treated with DIFFERIN Gel if you have to be in sunlight .
• You should avoid weather extremes such as wind and cold as this may cause irritation to your skin .
• You should avoid applying DIFFERIN Gel to cuts , abrasions and sunburned skin .
• You should avoid skin products that may dry or irritate your skin such as harsh soaps , astringents , cosmetics that have strong skin drying effects and products containing high levels of alcohol .
• You should avoid the use of “ waxing ” as a hair removal method on skin treated with DIFFERIN Gel .
What are the possible side effects of DIFFERIN Gel ?
DIFFERIN Gel may cause serious side effects including : • Local skin reactions .
Local skin reactions are most likely to happen during the first 4 weeks of treatment and usually lessen with continued use of DIFFERIN Gel .
Signs and symptoms of local skin reaction include : • Redness • Dryness • Scaling • Stinging or burning • Allergic reactions .
DIFFERIN Gel may cause an allergic reaction that may require medical treatment .
Stop using DIFFERIN Gel and tell your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction : • skin rash , itching or hives • trouble breathing or chest pain • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue or throat You may use a moisturizer for relief of dry skin or irritation , however you should avoid products that contain alpha hydroxy or glycolic acid .
The most common side effects of DIFFERIN Gel are : • skin pain • skin peeling • sunburn Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of DIFFERIN Gel .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 7354137 .
How should I store DIFFERIN Gel ?
• Store DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze DIFFERIN Gel .
Keep DIFFERIN Gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about DIFFERIN Gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use DIFFERIN Gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give DIFFERIN Gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about DIFFERIN Gel .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about DIFFERIN Gel that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in DIFFERIN Gel ?
Active ingredient : adapalene Inactive ingredients : carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 124 , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Dallas , Texas 75201 USA Manufactured by : G Production Inc . , Baie d ’ Urfé , QC , H9X 3S4 Canada Made in Canada .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P52321 - 1 Issued : 08 / 2022 PACKAGE LABEL - 45 g PUMP [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 0299 - 5918 - 25 Differin ® 0 . 3 ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % PUMP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NET WT .
45 g Galderma For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Usual dosage : apply a thin film once a day at nighttime to affected areas .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains : adapalene 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) in an aqueous gel consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 124 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
See carton closure for lot number and expiration date .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Dallas , TX 75201 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P51959 - 6
