Drug Facts Active Ingredients Hydrocortisone USP 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( Anti - itch ) Uses For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis and for external genital , feminine , and anal itching Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Do not use • In the eyes • For diaper rash • For external genital or feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge • More than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • This product in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • In case of bleeding when used for anal itching Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor • When used for anal itching , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry , patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying .
Children under 12 : consult a doctor before using for anal itching Other Information • Store at room temperature • Avoid excessive heat Inactive Ingredients Cetostearyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Monostearate SE , Methylchloroisothiazolinone , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Stearic Acid , Triethanolamine , White Soft Paraffin Principal Display Panel - 1 oz .
Tube Label Safetec ® 1 % Hydrocortisone Cream For Itching , Inflammation , and Rashes Net Wt .
1 oz .
( 28 . 4 g ) Reorder No . 53111 Manufactured for : Safetec of America , Inc .
Buffalo , NY 14215 | 1 - 800 - 456 - 7077 Made In India KD / 503 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
