A prescription prenatal supplement with 1 mg folic acid and a high level of vitamin B6 which may act as an antiemetic .
DESCRIPTION CitraNatal ® B - Calm ™ is a prescription prenatal multivitamin / mineral tablet with a high level of B6 , along with two vitamin B6 tablets .
The prenatal tablet is white , coated , modified oval , and is debossed with " 0866 " on one side and is blank on the other .
The B6 25 mg tablets are white to off - white , uncoated , round , and are debossed with " B " on one side and " 6 " on the other .
Each prenatal tablet contains : Vitamin C ( Ascorbic acid ) 120 mg Calcium ( Calcium citrate ) 125 mg Iron ( Carbonyl iron ) 20 mg Vitamin D3 ( Cholecalciferol ) 400 IU Vitamin B6 ( Pyridoxine HCl ) 25 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Each vitamin B6 tablet contains : Vitamin B6 ( Pyridoxine HCl ) 25 mg INDICATIONS CitraNatal ® B - Calm ™ is a multivitamin / mineral prescription drug indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers .
CitraNatal ® B - Calm ™ may be used in conjunction with a physician prescribed regimen to help minimize pregnancy related nausea and vomiting .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
WARNING Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
PRECAUTION Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet every eight hours , beginning with " Tablet 1 " , or as directed by a physician .
Store at controlled room temperature .
NOTICE : Contact with moisture can discolor or erode tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED Six child - resistant blister packs of 5 multivitamin / multimineral tablets and 10 vitamin B6 tablets each - NDC 0178 - 0866 - 30 .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 210 ) 696 - 8400 .
50307 C01 REV 010090 MISSION PHARMACAL COMPANY San Antonio , TX USA 78230 1355 www . missionpharmacal . com Copyright © 2009 Mission Pharmacal Company .
All rights reserved .
* March of Dimes does not endorse specific products or brands .
March of dimes is a registered trademark of the March of Dimes Foundation .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 0178 - 0866 - 30 The gentle option for additional B6 CitraNatal ® B - Calm Rx Prenatal Vitamin with two 25 mg each Vitamin B6 tablets A prescription prenatal supplement with 1 mg of folic acid and a high level of vitamin B6 which may act as an antiemetic .
march of dimes ® Mission Pharmacal is a proud supporter of the March of Dimes .
® CONTAINS Six 5 - day Blister Packs Mission ® PHARMACAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
