DESCRIPTION : ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing the mast cell stabilizer lodoxamide tromethamine for topical administration to the eyes .
Lodoxamide tromethamine is a white , crystalline , water - soluble powder with a molecular weight of 553 . 91 g / mol .
The chemical structure is presented below : Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : N , N ' - ( 2 - chloro - 5 - cyano - m - phenylene ) dioxamic acid tromethamine salt Molecular Formula : C19H28O12N5Cl Each mL of ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % contains : Active : 1 . 78 mg lodoxamide tromethamine equivalent to 1 mg lodoxamide .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 007 % .
Inactives : citric acid , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( adjust pH ) , hypromellose 2910 , mannitol , purified water , sodium citrate , and tyloxapol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Lodoxamide tromethamine is a mast cell stabilizer that inhibits the in vivo Type I immediate hypersensitivity reaction .
Lodoxamide therapy inhibits the increases in cutaneous vascular permeability that are associated with reagin or IgE and antigen - mediated reactions .
In vitro studies have demonstrated the ability of lodoxamide to stabilize rodent mast cells and prevent antigen - stimulated release of histamine .
In addition , lodoxamide prevents the release of other mast cell inflammatory mediators ( i . e . , SRS - A , slow - reacting substances of anaphylaxis , also known as the peptido - leukotrienes ) and inhibits eosinophil chemotaxis .
Although lodoxamide ' s precise mechanism of action is unknown , the drug has been reported to prevent calcium influx into mast cells upon antigen stimulation .
Lodoxamide has no intrinsic vasoconstrictor , antihistaminic , cyclooxygenase inhibition , or other anti - inflammatory activity .
The disposition of 14 C - lodoxamide was studied in six healthy adult volunteers receiving a 3 mg ( 50 μCi ) oral dose of lodoxamide .
Urinary excretion was the major route of elimination .
The elimination half - life of 14 C - lodoxamide was 8 . 5 hours in urine .
In a study conducted in twelve healthy adult volunteers , topical administration of ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % , one drop in each eye four times per day for ten days , did not result in any measurable lodoxamide plasma levels at a detection limit of 2 . 5 ng / mL .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % is indicated in the treatment of the ocular disorders referred to by the terms vernal keratoconjunctivitis , vernal conjunctivitis , and vernal keratitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS : FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
As with all ophthalmic preparations containing benzalkonium chloride , patients should be instructed not to wear soft contact lenses during treatment with ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % .
Do not touch the dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Patients may experience a transient burning or stinging upon instillation of ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % .
Should these symptoms persist , the patient should be advised to contact the prescribing physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : A long - term study with lodoxamide tromethamine in rats ( two - year oral administration ) showed no neoplastic or tumorigenic effects at doses 100 mg / kg / day ( more than 5000 times the proposed human clinical dose ) .
No evidence of mutagenicity or genetic damage was seen in the Ames Salmonella Assay , Chromosomal Aberration in CHO Cells Assay , or Mouse Forward Lymphoma Assay .
In the BALB / c - 3T3 Cells Transformation Assay , some increase in the number of transformed foci was seen at high concentrations ( greater than 4 , 000 mcg / mL ) .
No evidence of impairment of reproductive function was shown in laboratory animal studies .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies with lodoxamide tromethamine administered orally to rats and rabbits in doses of 100 mg / kg / day ( more than 5000 times the proposed human clinical dose ) produced no evidence of developmental toxicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether lodoxamide tromethamine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : During clinical studies of ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % , the most frequently reported ocular adverse experiences were transient burning , stinging , or discomfort upon instillation , which occurred in approximately 15 % of the subjects .
Other ocular events occurring in 1 % to 5 % of the subjects included ocular itching / pruritus , blurred vision , dry eye , tearing / discharge , hyperemia , crystalline deposits , and foreign body sensation .
Events that occurred in less than 1 % of the subjects included corneal erosion / ulcer , scales on lid / lash , eye pain , ocular edema / swelling , ocular warming sensation , ocular fatigue , chemosis , corneal abrasion , anterior chamber cells , keratopathy / keratitis , blepharitis , allergy , sticky sensation , and epitheliopathy .
Nonocular events reported were headache ( 1 . 5 % ) and ( at less than 1 % ) heat sensation , dizziness , somnolence , nausea , stomach discomfort , sneezing , dry nose , and rash .
OVERDOSAGE : There have been no reports of ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % overdose following topical ocular application .
Accidental overdose of an oral preparation of 120 mg to 180 mg of lodoxamide resulted in a temporary sensation of warmth , profuse sweating , diarrhea , light - headedness , and a feeling of stomach distension ; no permanent adverse effects were observed .
Side effects reported following systemic oral administration of 0 . 1 mg to 10 mg of lodoxamide include a feeling of warmth or flushing , headache , dizziness , fatigue , sweating , nausea , loose stools , and urinary frequency / urgency .
The physician may consider emesis in the event of accidental ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The dose for adults and children greater than 2 years of age is one to two drops in each affected eye four times daily for up to 3 months .
HOW SUPPLIED : ALOMIDE ® ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 1 % is supplied in a plastic ophthalmic dispenser as follows : 10 mL NDC 0065 - 0345 - 10 Storage : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , NJ 07936 © Novartis Revised : August 2020 T2020 - 119 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0065 - 0345 - 10 Alcon ® Alomide ® 0 . 1 % ( lodoxamide tromethamine ophthalmic solution ) 10 mL Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
