Sterile DESCRIPTION Flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution , USP 0 . 03 % is a sterile topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory product for ophthalmic use .
Chemical Name : Sodium ( ± ) - 2 - ( 2 - fluoro - 4 - biphenylyl ) - propionate dihydrate .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains : Active : flurbiprofen sodium 0 . 03 % ( 0 . 3 mg / mL ) .
Preservative : thimerosal 0 . 005 % .
Inactives : citric acid ; edetate disodium ; polyvinyl alcohol 1 . 4 % ; potassium chloride ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; and sodium citrate .
May also contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH . The pH of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % is 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
It has an osmolality of 260 - 330 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Flurbiprofen sodium is one of a series of phenylalkanoic acids that have shown analgesic , antipyretic , and anti - inflammatory activity in animal inflammatory diseases .
Its mechanism of action is believed to be through inhibition of the cyclo - oxygenase enzyme that is essential in the biosynthesis of prostaglandins .
Prostaglandins have been shown in many animal models to be mediators of certain kinds of intraocular inflammation .
In studies performed on animal eyes , prostaglandins have been shown to produce disruption of the blood - aqueous humor barrier , vasodilatation , increased vascular permeability , leukocytosis , and increased intraocular pressure .
Prostaglandins also appear to play a role in the miotic response produced during ocular surgery by constricting the iris sphincter independently of cholinergic mechanisms .
In clinical studies , flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % has been shown to inhibit the miosis induced during the course of cataract surgery .
Results from clinical studies indicate that flurbiprofen sodium has no significant effect upon intraocular pressure .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % is indicated for the inhibition of intraoperative miosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % is contraindicated in individuals who are hypersensitive to any components of the medication .
WARNINGS With nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , there exists the potential for increased bleeding due to interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
There have been reports that flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % may cause increased bleeding of ocular tissues including hyphemas in conjunction with ocular surgery .
There exists the potential for cross - sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Therefore , caution should be used when treating individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
PRECAUTIONS General : Wound healing may be delayed with the use of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % .
It is recommended that flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % be used with caution in surgical patients with known bleeding tendencies or who are receiving other medications which may prolong bleeding time .
Drug interactions : Interaction of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % with other topical ophthalmic medications has not been fully investigated .
Although clinical studies with acetylcholine chloride and animal studies with acetylcholine chloride or carbachol revealed no interference , and there is no known pharmacological basis for an interaction , there have been reports that acetylcholine chloride and carbachol have been ineffective when used in patients treated with flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of fertility : Long - term studies in mice and / or rats have shown no evidence of carcinogenicity with flurbiprofen .
Long - term mutagenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy category C . Flurbiprofen has been shown to be embryocidal , delay parturition , prolong gestation , reduce weight , and / or slightly retard growth of fetuses when given to rats in daily oral doses of 0 . 4 mg / kg ( approximately 333 times the human daily topical dose ) and above .
Nursing mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from flurbiprofen sodium , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient burning and stinging upon instillation and other minor symptoms of ocular irritation have been reported with the use of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % .
Other adverse reactions reported with the use of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % include : fibrosis , miosis , and mydriasis .
Increased bleeding tendency of ocular tissues in conjunction with ocular surgery has also been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage will not ordinarily cause acute problems .
If accidentally ingested , drink fluids to dilute .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A total of four ( 4 ) drops of flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution 0 . 03 % should be administered by instilling one ( 1 ) drop approximately every 1 / 2 hour beginning 2 hours before surgery .
HOW SUPPLIED Flurbiprofen sodium ophthalmic solution , USP is available for topical ophthalmic administration as a 0 . 03 % sterile solution , and is supplied in a white opaque low density polyethylene bottle with a controlled dropper tip and a gray high impact polystyrene cap in the following size : 2 . 5 mL in 5 mL bottle - NDC 42254 - 023 - 25 Note : Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Rx Only Revised January 2004 © 2004 PACIFIC PHARMA Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 71587PY11P Relabeled by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
