TEP Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection Active ingredients Eucalyptol , Menthol , Methyl salicylate , Thymol purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingvitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the fum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 ml ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfruls ) between teeth for 30 seconds than spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other informatin cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
inactive ingredients water , alcohol 26 . 9 % , benzoic acid , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , caramel ADA Statement The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Care One Antiseptic Mouth Rinse is based on it finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , wuhen used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine .
Adverse Reaction DISTRIBUTED BY AMERICAN SALES COMPANY 4201 WALDEN AVENUE LANCASTER , NY 14086 318 . 003 / 318 AH princpal display panel Compare to Listerine CARE ONE ANTISEPTIC MOUTH RINSE ORIGINAL FLAVOR Kills germs that cause Bad Breath , Plaque & the gum disease Gingivitis ADA Accepted mm3 . jpg American Dental Association 1 LITER ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
