Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • See carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive Ingredients aloe barbadensis , cetearyl alcohol / sodium lauryl sulfate / sodium cetearyl sulfate , chamomile ( anthemis nobilis ) oil , citric acid , corn ( zea mays ) oil , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl palmitate , maltodextrin , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin , petrolatum , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol , vitamin A ( retinyl palmitate ) , vitamin D ( cholecalciferol ) , vitamin E ( tocopheryl acetate ) .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 4 g Tube Carton SHOPKO ® NDC 37012 - 063 - 02 Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone Cream 1 % Antipruritic ( Anti - Itch ) Itch & Rash Relief Plus 12 Moisturizers NET WT 1 OZ .
( 28 . 4 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
