Carbastat ® ( CARBACHOL INTRAOCULAR SOLUTION , USP ) 0 . 01 % DESCRIPTION CARBASTAT ® ( Carbachol Intraocular Solution , USP ) 0 . 01 % is a sterile balanced salt solution of carbachol for intraocular injection .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established name : Carbachol Chemical name : Ethanaminium , 2 - [ ( aminocarbonyl ) oxy ] - N , N , N - trimethyl - , chloride .
Each mL contains : Active : Carbachol 0 . 01 % .
Inactive : Sodium chloride 0 . 64 % , potassium chloride 0 . 075 % , calcium chloride dihydrate 0 . 048 % , magnesium chloride hexahydrate 0 . 03 % , sodium acetate trihydrate 0 . 39 % , sodium citrate dihydrate 0 . 17 % , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to adjust pH ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) and water for injection USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Carbachol is a potent cholinergic ( parasympathomimetic ) agent which produces constriction of the iris and ciliary body resulting in reduction in intraocular pressure .
The exact mechanism by which carbachol lowers intraocular pressure is not precisely known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intraocular use for obtaining miosis during surgery .
In addition , Carbastat ® ( Carbachol Intraocular Solution USP ) reduces the intensity of intraocular pressure elevation in the first 24 hours after cataract surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Should not be used in those persons showing hypersensitivity to any of the components of this preparation .
WARNINGS For single - dose intraocular use only .
Discard unused portion .
Intraocular carbachol 0 . 01 % should be used with caution in patients with acute cardiac failure , bronchial asthma , peptic ulcer , hyperthyroidism , G . I . spasm , urinary tract obstruction and Parkinson ' s disease .
PRECAUTIONS Carcinogenesis Studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential have not been conducted .
Pregnancy : Category C .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Carbastat ® should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if this medication is excreted in breast milk .
Exercise caution when administering to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular Corneal clouding , persistent bullous keratopathy , retinal detachment and postoperative iritis following cataract extraction have been reported .
Systemic Side effects such as flushing , sweating , epigastric distress , abdominal cramps , tightness in urinary bladder , and headache have been reported with topical or systemic application of carbachol .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Aseptically remove the sterile vial from the blister package by peeling the backing paper and dropping the vial onto a sterile tray .
Withdraw the contents into a dry sterile syringe , and replace the needle with an atraumatic cannula prior to intraocular irrigation .
No more than one - half milliliter should be gently instilled into the anterior chamber for the production of satisfactory miosis .
It may be instilled before or after securing sutures .
Miosis is usually maximal within two to five minutes after application .
HOW SUPPLIED CARBASTAT ( Carbachol Intraocular Solution , USP ) 0 . 01 % 1 . 5 mL sterile glass vials in cartons of 12 ( 12 x 1 . 5 mL ) NDC 58768 - 735 - 12 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Rx only Manufactured by OMJ Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , San Germán , P . R . 00683 for Novartis Ophthalmics Duluth , GA 30097 5007 - D March , 2001
