Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg Nasal decongestant Uses • ▪ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • ▪ temporarily relieves : • ▪ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • ▪ the intensity of coughing • ▪ the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep • ▪ nasal congestion due to a cold • ▪ stuffy nose Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • ▪ heart disease • ▪ high blood pressure • ▪ thyroid disease • ▪ diabetes • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • ▪ do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided • ▪ do not use dosing cup with other products • ▪ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years of age 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Other information • • each 5 mL contains : sodium 2 mg • • store at room temperature • • do not refrigerate • • use dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
• 1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton NDC 67091 - 355 - 18 Children ' s Multi - Symptom Cold Dextromethorphan HBr - Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin - Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl - Nasal Decongestant • • Relieves Stuffy Nose • • Controls Cough • • Relieves Chest Congestion • • Breaks up Mucus Dosing Cup Included For Ages4 & Over Berry Flavor Naturally and Artificially Flavored 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
TAMPER - EVEDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED INNER SEAL UNDER CAP IS TORN OR MISSING .
Distributed by : * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Children ’ s Mucinex ® Multi - Symptom Cold .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
