Active ingredient ( in each chewing piece ) Nicotine polacrilex ( equal to 2 mg nicotine ) Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • a sodium - restricted diet • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase blood pressure .
• • stomach ulcer or diabetes • • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • mouth , teeth or jaw problems occur • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • • begin using the gum on your quit day • • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , 4 mg • • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , 2 mg according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • • chew the gum slowly until it tingles .
Then park it between your cheek and gum .
When the tingle is gone , begin chewing again , until the tingle returns .
• • repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone ( about 30 minutes ) • • do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum , or while chewing a piece • • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • • if you experience strong or frequent cravings , you may use a second piece within the hour .
However , do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
• • do not use more than 24 pieces a day • • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • • each piece contains : calcium 80 mg and sodium 11 mg • • store at 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) • • protect from light Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , calcium carbonate , carnauba wax , gelatin , gum base , mannitol , menthol , natural and artificial flavors , sodium bicarbonate , sodium carbonate anhydrous , sorbitol , sucralose , talc , titanium dioxide , xylitol Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 866 - 677 - 7858 from 7 : 30 a . m . to 5 : 00 p . m . Monday - Friday EST .
Consumer Information Nicotine Polacrilex Gum 2 mg and 4 mg User ’ s Guide How To Use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum To Help You Quit Smoking .
• • Not for sale to those under 18 years of age • • Proof of age required • • Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified Keys To Success .
• 1 .
You must really want to quit smoking for Nicotine Polacrilex Gum to help you .
• 2 .
You can greatly increase your chances for success by using a least 9 to 12 pieces every day when you start using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
See chart on back side of leaflet .
• 3 .
You should continue to use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum as explained in this User ’ s Guide for 12 full weeks .
If you feel you need to use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
• 4 .
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum works best when used together with a support program – See information for instructions on enrollment in the SmokeFreeHabits . com Free & Personalized Support Plan .
• 5 .
If you have trouble using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , ask your doctor , pharmacist or health care professional .
• 6 .
To request a free audio CD containing tips to help make quitting easier , call 1 - 866 - 677 - 7858 ( ONE CD PER CUSTOMER ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] So You Decided To Quit .
Congratulations .
Your decision to stop smoking is an important one .
That ’ s why you ’ ve made the right choice choosing Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
Your own chances of quitting smoking depend on how much you want to quit , how strongly you are addicted to tobacco , and how closely you follow a quitting program like the one that comes with Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
Quitting Smoking Is Hard !
If you ’ ve tried to quit before and haven ’ t succeeded , don ’ t be discouraged !
Quitting isn ’ t easy .
It takes time , and most people try a few times before they are successful .
The important thing is to try again until you succeed .
This User ’ s Guide will give you support as you become a nonsmoker .
It will answer common questions about Nicotine Polacrilex Gum and give you tips to help you stop smoking , and should be referred to often .
Where To Get Help .
You are more likely to stop smoking by using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum with a support program that help break your smoking habit .
There may be support groups in your area for people trying to quit .
Call your local chapter of the American Lung Association , American Cancer Society or American Heart Association for further information .
Toll free phone numbers are printed on the Wallet Card on the bottom of this User ’ s Guide .
If you find you cannot stop smoking or if you start smoking again after using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , remember breaking this addiction doesn ’ t happen overnight .
You may want to talk to a health care professional who can help you improve your chances of quitting the next time you try Nicotine Polacrilex Gum or another method .
Let ’ s Get Organized .
Your reason for quitting may be a combination of concerns about health , the effect of smoking on your appearance , and pressure from your family and friends to stop smoking .
Or maybe you ’ re concerned about the dangerous effects of secondhand smoke on the people you care about .
All of these are good reasons .
You probably have others .
Decide your most important reasons , and write them down on the wallet card on the back of the User ’ s Guide .
Carry this card with you .
In difficult moments , when you want to smoke , the card will remind you why you are quitting .
What You ’ re Up Against .
Smoking is addictive in two ways .
Your need for the nicotine has become both physical and mental .
You must overcome both addictions to stop smoking .
So while Nicotine Polacrilex Gum will lessen your body ’ s physical addiction to nicotine , you ’ ve got to want to quit smoking to overcome the mental dependence on cigarettes .
Once you ’ ve decided that you ’ re going to quit , it ’ s time to get started .
But first , there are some other important warnings you should consider .
Some Important Warnings .
This product is only for those who want to stop smoking .
If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • a sodium - restricted diet • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • stomach ulcer or diabetes • • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • mouth , teeth or jaw problems occur • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • • oral blistering occurs ( for cinnamon flavor ) • • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Let ’ s Get Started .
Becoming a nonsmoker starts today .
First , check that you have bought the right starting dose .
If you smoke you first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum 4 mg .
If you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , 2 mg .
Next read through the entire User ’ s Guide carefully .
Then , set your personalized quitting schedule .
Take out a calendar that you can use to track your progress , and identify four dates , using the reminders on the back side of this leaflet : STEP 1 .
( Weeks 1 - 6 ) .
Your quit date ( and the day you ’ ll start using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum ) .
Choose your quit date ( it should be soon ) .
This is the day you will begin using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum to satisfy your cravings for nicotine .
For the first six weeks , you ’ ll use a piece of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum every hour or two .
Be sure to read the How To Use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum section .
Place the Step 1 reminder on this date .
STEP 2 .
( Weeks 7 - 9 ) .
The day you ’ ll start reducing your use of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum After six weeks , you ’ ll begin gradually reducing your Nicotine Polacrilex Gum usage to one piece every two to four hours .
Place the Step 2 reminder on this date ( the first day of week seven ) .
STEP 3 .
( Weeks 10 - 12 ) .
The day you ’ ll further reduce you use of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
Nine weeks after you begin using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , you will further reduce your nicotine intake by using one piece every four to eight hours .
Place the step 3 reminder on this date ( the first day of week ten ) .
For the next three weeks , you ’ ll use a piece of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum every four to eight hours .
End of treatment : The day you ’ ll complete Nicotine Polacrilex Gum therapy .
Identify the date thirteen weeks after the date you choose in Step 1 , and place the “ EX - SMOKER ” reminder on your calendar .
Plan Ahead .
Because smoking is an addiction , it is not easy to stop .
After you ’ ve given up cigarettes , you will still have a strong urge to smoke .
Plan ahead NOW for these times , so you ’ re not defeated in a moment of weakness .
The following tips may help : • • Keep the phone numbers of supportive friends and family members handy .
• • Keep a record of your quitting process .
Track the number of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum pieces you use each day , and whether you feel a craving for cigarettes .
In the event that you slip , immediately stop smoking and resume your quit attempt with the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum program .
• • Put together an Emergency Kit that includes items that will help take your mind off occasional urges to smoke .
Include cinnamon gum or lemon drops to suck on , a relaxing CD and something for your hands to play with , like a smooth rock , rubber band , or small metal balls .
• • Set aside some small rewards , like a new magazine or a gift certificate from your favorite store , which you ’ ll “ give ” yourself after passing difficult hurdles .
• • Think now about the times when you most often want a cigarette , and then plan what else you might do instead of smoking .
For instance , you might plan to take your coffee break in a new location , or take a walk right after dinner , so you won ’ t be tempted to smoke .
How Nicotine Polacrilex Gum Works .
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum sugar - free chewing gum pieces provide nicotine to your system – they work as a temporary aid to help you quit smoking by reducing nicotine withdrawal symptoms .
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum provides a lower level of nicotine to your blood than cigarettes , and allows you to gradually do away with your body ’ s need for nicotine .
Because Nicotine Polacrilex Gum does not contain the tar or carbon monoxide of cigarette smoke , it does not have the same health dangers as tobacco .
However , it still delivers nicotine , the addictive part of cigarette smoke .
Nicotine can cause side effects such as a headache , nausea , upset stomach , and dizziness .
How To Use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
If you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
Before you can use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum correctly , you have to practice !
That sounds silly , but isn ’ t .
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum isn ’ t like ordinary chewing gum .
It ’ s a medicine , and must be chewed a certain way to work right .
Chewed like ordinary gum , Nicotine Polacrilex Gum won ’ t work well and can cause side effects .
An overdose can occur if you chew more than one piece of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum at the same time , or if you chew many pieces one after another .
Read all the following instructions before using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
Refer to them often to make sure you ’ re using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum correctly .
If you chew too fast , or do not chew correctly , you may get hiccups , heartburn , or other stomach problems .
Don ’ t eat or drink for 15 minutes before using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , or while chewing a piece .
The effectiveness of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum may be reduced by some foods and drinks , such as coffee , juices , wine or soft drinks .
• 1 .
Begin using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum on your quit day .
• 2 .
To reduce craving and other withdrawal symptoms , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum according to the dosage schedule on the back of this leaflet .
• 3 .
Chew each Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece very slowly several times .
• 4 .
Stop chewing when you notice a peppery taste , or slight tingling in your mouth .
( This usually happens after about 15 chews , but may vary from person to person . )
• 5 .
“ PARK ” the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece between your cheek and gum , and leave it there .
• 6 .
When peppery taste and tingle is almost gone ( in about minute ) , start to chew a few times slowly again .
When the taste or tingle returns , stop again .
• 7 .
Park the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece again ( in a different place in your mouth ) .
• 8 .
Repeat steps 3 to 7 ( chew , chew , park ) until most of the nicotine is gone from the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece ( usually happens in about half an hour ; the peppery taste and tingle won ’ t return . )
• 9 .
Wrap the used Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece in paper and throw away in the trash .
The following chart lists the recommended usage schedule for Nicotine Polacrilex Gum : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours DO NOT USE MORE THAN 24 PIECES PER DAY .
To improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 pieces of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum a day .
If you experience strong or frequent cravings you may use a second piece within the hour .
However , do not continuously use one piece after another , since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects .
How To Reduce Your Nicotine Polacrilex Gum Usage .
The goal of using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum is to slowly reduce your dependence on nicotine .
The schedule for using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum will help you reduce your craving gradually as you reduce and then stop your use of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum .
Here are some tips to help you cut back during each step and then stop using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum : • • After a while , start chewing each Nicotine Polacrilex Gum piece for only 10 to 15 minutes , instead of half an hour .
Then , gradually begin to reduce the number of pieces used .
• • Or , try chewing each piece for longer than half an hour , but reduce the number of pieces you use each day .
• • Substitute ordinary chewing gum for some of the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum pieces you would normally use .
Increase the number of pieces of ordinary gum as you cut back on the Nicotine Polacrilex Gum pieces .
• • Check how well you ’ ve reduced your daily usage of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum in Weeks 10 to 12 .
You should only be using about 3 to 5 pieces a day .
Get ready to stop .
The following tips may help you try to stop Nicotine Polacrilex Gum when you have completed treatment .
• • Set a stop date .
• • Use the same number of pieces of confectionary gum or mints as you were using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum per day .
At the times when you have an urge to use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , use a strong flavored gum or mint such as cinnamon or peppermint .
• • Reduce the number of pieces of gum or mints you use by one piece per day until you do not need to use any gum or mints .
Talk to your doctor or health care provider if you : • • still feel the need to use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum at the end of week 12 to keep from smoking • • start using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum again after stopping • • start smoking again Tips To Make Quitting Easier .
Within the first few weeks of giving up smoking , you may be tempted to smoke for pleasure , particularly after completing a difficult task , or at a party or bar .
Here are some tips to help get you through the important first stages of becoming a nonsmoker : On your Quit Day : • • Ask your family , friends and coworkers to support you in your efforts to stop smoking .
• • Throw away all your cigarettes , matches , lighters , ashtrays , etc .
• • Keep busy on your quit day .
Exercise .
Go to a movie .
Take a walk .
Get together with friends .
• • Figure out how much money you ’ ll save by not smoking .
Most ex - smokers can save more than $ 1 , 000 a year .
• • Write down what you will do with the money you save .
• • Know your high risk situations and plan ahead how you will deal with them .
• • Keep Nicotine Polacrilex Gum near your bed , so you ’ ll be prepared for any nicotine cravings when you wake up in the morning .
• • Visit your dentist and have your teeth cleaned to get rid of the tobacco stains .
Right After Quitting : • • During the first few days after you ’ ve stopped smoking , spend as much time as possible at places where smoking is not allowed .
• • Drink large quantities of water and fruit juices .
• • Try to avoid alcohol , coffee and other beverages you associate with smoking .
• • Remember that temporary urges to smoke will pass , even if you don ’ t smoke a cigarette .
• • Keep your hands busy with something like a pencil or paper clip .
• • Find other activities which help you relax without cigarettes .
• • Swim , jog , take a walk , play basketball .
• • Don ’ t worry too much about gaining weight , Watch what you eat , take time for daily exercise , and change your eating habits if you need to .
• • Laughter helps .
Watch or read something funny .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What to Expect .
Your body is now coming back into balance .
During the first few days after you stop smoking , you might feel edgy and nervous and have trouble concentrating .
You might get headaches , feel dizzy and a little out of sorts , feel sweaty or have stomach upsets .
You might even have trouble sleeping at first .
These are typical withdrawal symptoms that will go away with time .
Your smoker ’ s cough will get worse before it gets better .
But don ’ t worry , that ’ s a good sign .
Coughing helps clear the tar deposits out of your lungs .
After A Week Or Two .
By now you should be feeling more confident that you can handle those smoking urges .
Many of your withdrawal symptoms have left by now , and you should be noticing some positives signs : less coughing , better breathing and an improved sense of taste and smell , to name a few .
After A Month .
You probably have the urge to smoke less often now .
But urges may still occur , and when they do , they are likely to be powerful ones that come out of nowhere .
Don ’ t let them catch you off guard .
Plan ahead for these difficult times .
Concentrate on the ways nonsmokers are more attractive than smokers .
Their skin is less likely to wrinkle .
Their teeth are whiter , cleaner .
Their breath is fresher .
Their hair and clothes smell better .
That cough that seems to make even a laugh sound more like a rattle is a thing of the past .
Their children and others around them are healthier , too .
What To Do About Relapse .
What should you do if you slip and start smoking again ?
The answer is simple .
A lapse of one or two or even a few cigarettes has not spoiled your efforts !
Discard your cigarettes , forgive yourself and try again .
If you start smoking again , keep your box of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum for your next quit attempt .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you have taken up regular smoking again , don ’ t be discouraged .
Research shows that the best thing you can do is to try again .
The important thing is to learn from your last attempt .
• • Admit that you ’ ve slipped , but don ’ t treat yourself as a failure .
• • Try to identify the “ trigger ” that caused you to slip , and prepare a better plan for dealing with this problem next time .
• • Talk positively to yourself – tell yourself that you have learned something from this experience .
• • Make sure you used Nicotine Polacrilex Gum correctly over the full 12 weeks to reduce your craving for nicotine .
• • Remember that it takes practice to do anything , and quitting smoking is no exception .
When The Struggle Is Over .
Once you ’ ve stopped smoking , take a second and pat yourself on your back .
Now do it again .
You deserve it .
Remember now why you decided to stop smoking in the first place .
Look at your list of reasons .
Read them again .
And smile .
Now think about all the money you are saving and what you ’ ll do with it .
All the nonsmoking places you can go , and what you might do there .
All those years you may have added to your life , and what you ’ ll do with them .
Remember that temptation may not be gone forever .
However , the hard part is behind you so look forward with a positive attitude , and enjoy your new life as a nonsmoker .
Questions & Answers .
• 1 .
How will I feel when I stop smoking and start using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum ?
You ’ ll need to prepare yourself for some nicotine withdrawal symptoms .
These begin almost immediately after you stop smoking , and usually at their worst during the first three or four days .
Understand that any of the following is possible : • • craving for cigarettes • • anxiety , irritability , restlessness , mood changes , nervousness • • drowsiness • • trouble concentrating • • increased appetite and weight gain • • headaches , muscular pain , constipation , fatigue Nicotine Polacrilex Gum can help provide relief from withdrawal symptoms such as irritability and nervousness , as well as the craving for nicotine you used to satisfy by having a cigarette .
• 2 .
Is Nicotine Polacrilex Gum just substituting one form of nicotine for another ?
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum does contain nicotine .
The purpose of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum is to provide you with enough nicotine to help control the physical withdrawal symptoms so you can deal with the mental aspects of quitting .
During the 12 week program , you will gradually reduce your nicotine intake by switching to fewer pieces each day .
• 3 .
Can I be hurt by using Nicotine Polacrilex Gum ?
For most adults , the amount of nicotine in the gum is less than from smoking .
Some people will be sensitive to even this amount of nicotine and should not use this product without the advice from their doctor .
Check the Some Important Warnings section on the front of this leaflet .
Because Nicotine Polacrilex Gum is a gum - based product , chewing it can cause dental fillings to loosen and aggravate other mouth , tooth , and jaw problems .
Nicotine Polacrilex Gum can also cause hiccups , heartburn and other stomach problems especially if chewed too quickly or not chewed correctly .
• 4 .
Will I gain weight ?
Many people do tend to gain a few pounds the first 8 – 10 weeks after they stop smoking .
This is a very small price to pay for the enormous gains that you will make in your overall health and attractiveness .
If you continue to gain weight after the first two months , try to analyze what you ’ re doing differently .
Reduce your fat intake , choose healthy snacks , and increase your physical activity to burn off the extra calories .
• 5 .
Is Nicotine Polacrilex Gum more expensive than smoking ?
The total cost of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum for the twelve week program is about equal to what a person who smokes one and a half packs of cigarettes a day would spend on cigarettes for the same period of time .
Also , use of Nicotine Polacrilex Gum is only short - term cost , while the cost of smoking is a long - term cost , because of the health problems smoking causes .
• 6 .
What if I slip up ?
Discard your cigarettes , forgive yourself and then get back on track .
Don ’ t consider yourself a failure or punish yourself .
In fact , people who have already tried to quit are more likely to be successful the next time .
Good Luck !
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] : 02952 00 J3 Free Personalized Plan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Begin Right Now !
Having a plan will help you in your efforts to stop smoking .
We can help !
Follow the simple steps below to receive your valuable personalized Smoke Free Habits plan and many other stop smoking tools and resources .
How To Enroll Stopping smoking involves breaking your physical addiction and changing your behavior .
You will use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum to help break your physical addiction , while your free personalized plan will help you develop healthier behaviors .
To enroll : • • Go online to www . SmokeFreeHabits . com • • Enter the first five digits of the UPC number from the box .
• • Answer the questions about yourself .
• • Print your personalized plan .
( If you don ’ t have access to the internet , you can call 1 - 866 - 677 - 7858 , answer questions , and your plan will be mailed to you in a few days . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] What You Will Receive Here are the free tools and resources that you will receive based on how you sign up for the program : Online By Phone Personalized 12 - Week Plan immediately by mail Buddy Brochure immediately by mail Personal Wellness Assessment immediately Week 2 Helpful Tips X Week 3 Helpful Tips X by mail Week 4 Helpful Tips X Week 6 Helpful Tips X by mail Week 9 Helpful Tips X Week 12 Certificate of Accomplishment X by mail Online Drug Database X Daily Health News X Tips To Get Started • 1 .
Follow your personalized Smoke Free Habits support plan .
• 2 .
Be sure to use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum as directed .
• 3 .
Throw away all of your cigarettes , lighters , and ashtrays .
• 4 .
You may feel urges to smoke , but they usually pass in 2 - 3 minutes .
When you feel an urge , do something else .
Take deep breaths and let them out slowly .
Drink a glass of water .
• 5 .
Carry things to put in your mouth , like gum , hard candy , or toothpicks .
• 6 .
Be active , Take a walk with a friend , ride a bike , walk the dog , play tennis .
• 7 .
Go to places where you are not allowed to smoke , like the movies or the mall .
Try to steer clear of places where you usually smoked , like a break room at work or a favorite bar .
• 8 .
Ask friends or family for support whenever you need it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Compare to Nicorette ® Gum active ingredient COATED Fruit Wave 300 Pieces 2x150 2 mg 300 Pieces Compare to Nicorette ® Gum active ingredient INCLUDES USER ’ S GUIDE Nicotine Gum nicotine polacrilex gum 2 mg ( nicotine ) stop smoking aid actual size 2 mg FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE MORE THAN 30 MINUTES AFTER WAKING UP COATED Fruit Wave If you smoke your first cigarette WITHIN 30 MINUTES of waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum , 4 mg 150 Pieces [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
