Hyperlyte ® CR Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ( 20 mL / dose ) PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY .
MUST BE DILUTED PRIOR TO INJECTION .
Contains no phosphate .
DESCRIPTION A pharmacy bulk package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of intra - and extracellular electrolytes , excluding phosphate .
No bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agent has been added .
Each 20 mL contains : Potassium Acetate USP 1 . 96 g ; Sodium Chloride USP 1 . 17 g ; Sodium Acetate Trihydrate USP 0 . 68 g ; Magnesium Chloride Hexahydrate USP 0 . 51 g ; Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP 0 . 37 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP as needed pH : 5 . 2 ( 5 . 0 - 5 . 4 ) ; Calculated Osmolarity : 5500 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / 20 mL dose ) : Sodium 25 ; Potassium 20 ; Calcium 5 ; Magnesium 5 ; Chloride 30 ; Acetate 30 The formulas of the active ingredients are : Ingredients Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Potassium Acetate USP CH3COOK 98 . 14 Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Sodium Acetate Trihydrate USP CH3COONa • 3H2O 136 . 08 Magnesium Chloride Hexahydrate USP MgCl2 • 6H2O 203 . 30 Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP CaCl2 • 2H2O 147 . 02 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyperlyte ® CR provides a source of intra - and extracellular electrolytes in suitable amounts , to help maintain normal cellular metabolism during total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) and other parenteral therapy in adults .
Use of properly diluted Hyperlyte ® CR meets most adult daily electrolyte requirements and provides adjunctive therapy for replenishment of depleted electrolyte stores .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) and is concerned with the maintenance of body fluid composition and electrolyte balance .
Potassium participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Calcium , an important cation , provides the framework of bones and teeth in the form of calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate .
In the ionized form , calcium is essential for the functional mechanism of the clotting of blood , normal cardiac function , and regulation of neuromuscular irritability .
Magnesium , a principal cation of soft tissue , is primarily involved in enzyme activity associated with the metabolism of carbohydrates and protein .
Magnesium is also involved in neuromuscular irritability .
Acetate is an organic ion which is a hydrogen ion acceptor , contributes bicarbonate during its metabolism to carbon dioxide and water , and serves as an alkalinizing agent .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyperlyte ® CR is indicated for use as a supplement to parenteral nutritional solutions containing amino acids , dextrose and / or other calorie sources delivered by central venous or peripheral infusion , to facilitate amino acid utilization and maintain electrolyte balance in adults .
Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) is also indicated as a source of replacement electrolytes for the depleted adult patient during parenteral therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hyperlyte ® CR is contraindicated in clinical conditions where the administration of potassium , sodium , calcium , magnesium , or chloride could be clinically detrimental .
Hyperlyte ® CR is not intended for pediatric use .
WARNINGS Strongly hypertonic solution .
Must be properly diluted and thoroughly mixed before injection .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
Contains no phosphate .
Patients receiving TPN solutions containing concentrated dextrose may also require phosphate in addition to Hyperlyte ® CR .
Each 20 mL dose contains 20 mEq of potassium .
Patient requirements should be carefully evaluated prior to the addition of any potassium salt to a solution containing Hyperlyte ® CR .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
Solutions containing potassium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in the presence of renal disease , and in such instances , cardiac monitoring is recommended .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Solutions containing acetate should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of acetate should be done with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of acetate , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
PRECAUTIONS General Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements , or the use of electrolyte - free dextrose solutions to which individualized electrolyte supplements may be added .
This solution should be used with care in patients with hypervolemia , renal insufficiency , urinary tract obstruction , or impending or frank cardiac decompensation .
Blood levels of sodium , potassium , calcium , magnesium , phosphorus and chloride should be monitored frequently during parenteral nutrition or intravenous therapy , and the daily dosage of electrolytes may require tailoring to meet individual needs .
In tissue electrolyte depletion , addition of certain electrolytes may be required to meet individual patient needs .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Care must be exercised in administering solutions containing up to 30 mEq of sodium and 40 mEq of potassium per liter to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
Potassium therapy should be guided by serial electrocardiograms since plasma levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
Solutions containing potassium , magnesium or calcium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly when accompanied by renal disease .
Parenteral magnesium or calcium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations .
Extraordinary electrolyte and fluid losses are not necessarily corrected by infusion of solutions containing Hyperlyte ® CR .
In order to avoid deficits , special consideration must be given to replacement of excessive fluid and electrolyte losses in such conditions as protracted vomiting or diarrhea , nasogastric suction , or fistula drainage .
If both phosphate and Hyperlyte ® CR are to be added to the solution for TPN administration , add the Hyperlyte ® CR to one container ( either to the amino acids or the concentrated dextrose ) and add the phosphate to the other to avoid physical incompatibilities between calcium and phosphorus .
Solutions containing acetate should be used with caution .
Excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
If the administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration and periodically during administration .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Discard the container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
Laboratory Tests Periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates , narcotics , hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted and used with caution in patients also receiving magnesium - containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No in vitro or in vivo carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or fertility studies have been conducted with Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) .
It is also not known whether Hyperlyte ® CR can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Hyperlyte ® CR should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery As reported in the literature , electrolyte containing solutions have been administered during labor and delivery .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when solutions containing electrolytes are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric populations have not been established .
See WARNINGS and CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
See WARNINGS .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the final infusate .
Therefore , frequent monitoring of blood electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
Reactions reported with the use of potassium - containing solutions include nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , areflexia , muscular or respiratory paralysis , mental confusion , weakness , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest .
Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular functions , and intestinal ileus and dilatation .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression , amnesia , headaches , drowsiness , disorientation , syncope , hallucinations , hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles , dysphagia , arrhythmias and coma .
Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability , including cramps and convulsions .
Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing , sweating , hypotension , circulatory collapse , and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function .
Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life .
Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia , hypertension , hyperirritability and psychotic behavior .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ’ s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
In the event of overdosage with potassium - containing solutions , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
Treatment of hyperkalemia includes the following : • Dextrose Injection USP , 10 % or 25 % containing 10 units of crystalline insulin per 20 grams of dextrose administered intravenously , 300 to 500 mL per hour .
• Absorption and exchange of potassium using sodium or ammonium cycle cation exchange resin , orally and as retention enema .
• Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
The use of potassium - containing foods or medications must be eliminated .
However , in cases of digitalization , too rapid a lowering of plasma potassium concentration can cause digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for direct patient injection .
Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) in Pharmacy Bulk Package is for prescription compounding of intravenous admixtures only .
Not for direct patient injection .
Dilute to appropriate strength with suitable intravenous fluid prior to administration .
For adults , one 20 mL dose of Hyperlyte ® CR should be added to each liter of amino acid / dextrose solution ( TPN ) or other suitable intravenous solution .
Hyperlyte ® CR contains no phosphate .
It may be admixed with solutions which contain phosphate or which have been supplemented with phosphate .
The presence of calcium and magnesium ions in this solution should be considered when phosphate is present in the additive solution in order to avoid precipitation .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in Pharmacy Bulk Package with solid stoppers , packaged 12 per case .
Canada DIN NDC REF Size Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) 01924311 0264 - 1943 - 20 S9432 250 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Revised : April 2018 Hyperlyte is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions for Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package in B . Braun Glass Containers with Solid Stoppers Warning : Not for direct infusion .
For preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
The pharmacy bulk package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only .
Use of this product is restricted to a suitable work area , such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
Additives should not be made to Pharmacy Bulk Packages .
Designed for use with a vented sterile dispensing set .
• Before use , perform the following checks : • Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the bottle for cracks or other damage .
In checking for cracks , do not be confused by normal surface marks and seams on bottom and sides of bottle .
These are not flaws .
Look for bright reflections that have depth and penetrate into the wall of the bottle .
Reject any such bottle .
• Remove plastic cap ( see Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Swab exposed stopper surface with a suitable disinfectant .
• Check for vacuum at first puncture of the stopper .
Insert the spike fully into the target area of the rubber stopper ( See Figure 2 ) and promptly invert the bottle .
Verify vacuum by observing rising air bubbles .
Do not use the bottle if vacuum is not present .
Refer to Directions for Use of set to be used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If set insertion is not performed immediately following swabbing , swab stopper again with a suitable disinfectant .
The container closure may be penetrated only one time , utilizing a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents .
Transfer individual dose ( s ) to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions .
Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended .
Multiple entries increase the potential of the microbial and particulate contamination .
The withdrawal of container contents should be accomplished without delay using aseptic technique .
Discard container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
The bottle may be stored under laminar flow hood at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) after the closure has been entered .
Date and time of container entry should be noted in the area designated on the container label .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y36 - 002 - 971 LD - 447 - 2 Package Insert Rx only PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mL Hyperlyte ® CR ( Multi - Electrolyte Concentrate ) ( 20 mL / dose ) REF S9432 NDC 0264 - 1943 - 20 DIN 01924311 250 mL PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION Each 20 mL contains : Potassium Acetate USP 1 . 96 g ; Sodium Chloride USP 1 . 17 g ; Sodium Acetate • 3H2O USP 0 . 68 g ; Magnesium Chloride • 6H2O USP 0 . 51 g ; Calcium Chloride • 2H2O USP 0 . 37 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Glacial Acetic Acid USP as needed pH : 5 . 2 ( 5 . 0 - 5 . 4 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 5500 mOsmol / liter B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Opened : Date Time Electrolytes ( mEq / 20 mL dose ) : Na + 25 K + 20 Ca + + 5 Mg + + 5 Cl – 30 Acetate 30 Contains no more than 45 mcg / L of aluminum .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Pharmacy Bulk Package .
No antimicrobial or bacteriostatic agent has been added .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
WARNING : Not for direct infusion .
For prescription compounding of intravenous admixtures only .
Concentrated solution – dilute to appropriate strength with suitable intravenous fluid prior to administration .
Use only if solution is clear and vacuum is present .
Discard the container no later than 4 hours after initial closure puncture .
Rx only Hyperlyte is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y37 - 002 - 544 LD - 395 - 2 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
