Rx only BOXED WARNING WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepine or other central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
Avoid use of opioid cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines , other CNS depressants , or alcohol .
DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate .
Hydrocodone is a centrally - acting narcotic antitussive .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is for oral use only .
Hydrocodone Polistirex Sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 2 - [ p - chloro - α - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - benzyl ] pyridine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients Ascorbic acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , ethylcellulose , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavor , high fructose corn syrup , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 3350 , polysorbate 80 , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sucrose , vegetable oil , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic antitussive and analgesic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known ; however , hydrocodone is believed to act directly on the cough center .
In excessive doses , hydrocodone , like other opium derivatives , will depress respiration .
The effects of hydrocodone in therapeutic doses on the cardiovascular system are insignificant .
Hydrocodone can produce miosis , euphoria , and physical and psychological dependence .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine drug ( H1 receptor antagonist ) that also possesses anticholinergic and sedative activity .
It prevents released histamine from dilating capillaries and causing edema of the respiratory mucosa .
Hydrocodone release from TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is controlled by the Pennkinetic System , an extended - release drug delivery system , which combines an ion - exchange polymer matrix with a diffusion rate - limiting permeable coating .
Chlorpheniramine release is prolonged by use of an ion - exchange polymer system .
Following multiple dosing with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , hydrocodone mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 22 . 8 ( 5 . 9 ) ng / mL occurred at 3 . 4 hours .
Chlorpheniramine mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 58 . 4 ( 14 . 7 ) ng / mL occurred at 6 . 3 hours following multiple dosing .
Peak plasma levels obtained with an immediate - release syrup occurred at approximately 1 . 5 hours for hydrocodone and 2 . 8 hours for chlorpheniramine .
The plasma half - lives of hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine have been reported to be approximately 4 and 16 hours , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is indicated for relief of cough and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or a cold in adults and children 6 years of age and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is contraindicated in patients with a known allergy or sensitivity to hydrocodone or chlorpheniramine .
The use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age due to the risk of fatal respiratory depression .
WARNINGS Risk from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids , including TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , with benzodiazepines , or other CNS depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Because of these risks , avoid use of opioid cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines , other CNS depressants , or alcohol ( see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioids alone .
Because of similar pharmacologic properties , it is reasonable to expect similar risk with concomitant use of opioid cough medications and benzodiazepines , other CNS depressants , or alcohol .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation if TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is used with benzodiazepines , alcohol , or other CNS depressants ( see PRECAUTIONS – Information for Patients ) .
Respiratory Depression As with all narcotics , TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension produces dose - related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers .
Hydrocodone affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
Caution should be exercised when TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease , or whenever ventilatory function is depressed .
If respiratory depression occurs , it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride and other supportive measures when indicated ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions , which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Obstructive Bowel Disease Chronic use of narcotics may result in obstructive bowel disease especially in patients with underlying intestinal motility disorder .
Pediatric Use The use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
In pediatric patients , as well as adults , the respiratory center is sensitive to the depressant action of narcotic cough suppressants in a dose - dependent manner .
Caution should be exercised when administering TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension to pediatric patients 6 years of age and older .
Overdose or concomitant administration of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with other respiratory depressants may increase the risk of respiratory depression in pediatric patients .
Benefit to risk ratio should be carefully considered , especially in pediatric patients with respiratory embarrassment ( e . g . , croup ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution is advised when prescribing this drug to patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , asthma , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Special Risk Patients As with any narcotic agent , TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ' s disease , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind .
Information for Patients Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Inform patients and caregivers that potentially fatal additive effects may occur if TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants , including alcohol .
Because of this risk , patients should avoid concomitant use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants , including alcohol ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) .
Neurological Adverse Reactions Advise patients that TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery during treatment with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Dosing Instructions Advise patients not to dilute TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with other fluids and not to mix with other drugs as this may alter the resin - binding and change the absorption rate , possibly increasing the toxicity .
Advise patients that TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension should be measured with an accurate measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
A dosing spoon is provided with the 4 oz ( 115 mL ) packaged product .
One side of the spoon is for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is for a 5 mL dose .
Instruct the patient to fill to level the side of the spoon for the dose that has been prescribed .
The spoon should not be overfilled .
Rinse the measuring device or dosing spoon after each use .
Alternatively , a pharmacist can recommend an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
Cough Reflex Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is used postoperatively , and in patients with pulmonary disease .
Drug Interactions The use of benzodiazepines , opioids , antihistamines , antipsychotics , anti - anxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may cause an additive CNS depressant effect , profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death and should be avoided ( see WARNINGS ) .
The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone .
The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproductive studies have not been conducted with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Hydrocodone has been shown to be teratogenic in hamsters when given in doses 700 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
Labor and Delivery As with all narcotics , administration of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS , Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders ) .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension should be used with caution in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( see WARNINGS , Pediatric Use ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of TUSSIONEX did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur ; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients .
Prolonged administration of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may produce constipation .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation , drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , euphoria , dizziness , psychic dependence , mood changes .
Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters , and urinary retention have been reported with opiates .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx , occasional tightness of the chest , and respiratory depression ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Overdose with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension in children 6 years of age and older , in adolescents , and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash , pruritus .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is a Schedule II narcotic .
Psychic dependence , physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics ; therefore , TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension should be prescribed and administered with caution .
However , psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is used for a short time for the treatment of cough .
Physical dependence , the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome , assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued oral narcotic use , although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Serious overdosage with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
Although miosis is characteristic of narcotic overdose , mydriasis may occur in terminal narcosis or severe hypoxia .
In severe overdosage apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
The manifestations of chlorpheniramine overdosage may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Treatment Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote for respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics including hydrocodone .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone in this formulation may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
For further information , see full prescribing information for naloxone hydrochloride .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Gastric emptying may be useful in removing unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is important that TUSSIONEX is measured with an accurate measuring device ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ) .
A dosing spoon is provided with the 4 oz ( 115 mL ) packaged product .
One side of the spoon is for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is for a 5 mL dose .
Fill to level the side of the spoon for the dose that has been prescribed .
Do not overfill .
Rinse with water after each use .
For prescriptions where a dosing spoon is not provided , a pharmacist can provide an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
Each 5 mL of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate , and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate .
Shake well before using .
Rinse the measuring device with water after each use .
Adults and Children 12 Years and Older 5 mL every 12 hours ; do not exceed 10 mL in 24 hours .
Children 6 - 11 Years of Age 2 . 5 mL every 12 hours ; do not exceed 5 mL in 24 hours .
This medicine is contraindicated in children under 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) Extended - Release Suspension , equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate per 5 mL , is a gold - colored suspension available as : • NDC 53014 - 548 - 01 4 oz amber plastic bottle containing 115 mL of suspension .
Each bottle is supplied with a plastic dosing spoon calibrated for measuring 2 . 5 mL and 5 mL doses .
For Medical Information Contact : Medical Affairs Department Phone : ( 866 ) 822 - 0068 Fax : ( 770 ) 970 - 8859 Storage Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension Manufactured for : UCB , Inc .
Smyrna , GA 30080 TUSSIONEX and PENNKINETIC are registered trademarks of the UCB Group of companies .
© 2017 , UCB , Inc . , Smyrna , GA 30080 .
All rights reserved .
Printed in the U . S . A . Rev . 01 / 2017 MEDICATION GUIDE TUSSIONEX ® Pennkinetic ® ( tuss - i - necks pen - ki - ne - tik ) ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) Extended - Release Suspension CII This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : January 2017 What is the most important information I should know about TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• Taking TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with benzodiazepines , or other central nervous system depressants , including alcohol can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma , and death .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension can cause you to be drowsy .
Avoid driving a car or operating machinery during treatment with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
• Women who breastfeed should talk to their healthcare provider before taking TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
• Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical help right away if anyone taking TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension has any of the symptoms below : • increased sleepiness • confusion • difficulty breathing • shallow breathing • limpness • your baby has difficulty breastfeeding • Keep TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension in a safe place away from children .
Accidental use by a child is a medical emergency and can cause death .
If a child accidentally takes TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , get emergency medical help right away .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension can cause serious side effects , including death .
• Take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
If you take the wrong dose of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , you could overdose and die .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is not for children under 6 years of age .
What is TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is a prescription medicine used to treat cough and upper respiratory symptoms that you can have with allergies or a cold .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is for adults and children age 6 years and older .
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension contains 2 medicines , hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine .
Hydrocodone is a narcotic cough suppressant .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is a federal controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains hydrocodone that can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension is not for children under 6 years of age .
Who should not take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• Do not take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients .
You may have an increased risk of having an allergic reaction to TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension if you are allergic to certain other opioid medicines .
• Do not give TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension to a child under 6 years of age .
It can cause breathing problems that can lead to death .
Before you take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a drug dependence • have lung or breathing problems • have had a head injury • have pain in your stomach - area ( abdomen ) • have a history of severe or persistent cough • have glaucoma • have prostate problems • have problems with your urinary tract ( urethral stricture ) • plan to have surgery • drink alcohol • have kidney or liver problems • have diabetes • have thyroid problems , such as hypothyroidism • Addison ' s disease • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension will harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you : • take pain medicines such as narcotics • take cold or allergy medicines that contain antihistamines or cough suppressants • take medicines for mental illness ( anti - psychotics , anti - anxiety ) • drink alcohol • take medicines for depression , including monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) and tricyclics • take medicines for stomach or intestine problems Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you take one of these medicines .
How should I take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• Take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension to take and when to take it .
Do not change your dose without talking to your healthcare provider .
• Shake TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension well before each use .
• Do not mix TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with other liquids or medicines .
Mixing may change how TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension works .
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension can be taken with or without food .
• Only measure TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension with the dosing spoon that comes with your prescription .
If you do not have a dosing spoon for your medicine , ask your pharmacist to give you a measuring device to help you measure the correct amount of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Do not use a household teaspoon to measure your medicine .
You may accidently take too much .
• One side of the dosing spoon is marked for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is marked for a 5 mL dose .
Find the side of the spoon that has the dose you are taking .
• Fill that side of the spoon so the medicine is level with the rim of the spoon .
Do not overfill the spoon .
• Rinse the spoon with water after each use .
• If you take too much TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension can cause you to be drowsy .
Avoid driving a car or operating machinery during treatment with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
• Avoid drinking alcohol during treatment with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ? "
• Breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) which can lead to death .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency treatment right away if you are sleeping more than usual , have shallow or slow breathing , or confusion .
• Increased intracranial pressure .
• Physical dependence or abuse .
Take TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Stopping TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension suddenly can cause withdrawal symptoms .
• Bowel problems including constipation or stomach pain .
The most common side effects of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension include : • sleepiness • confusion • nausea and vomiting • difficulty urinating • trouble breathing These are not all the possible side effects of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
• Store TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
• Keep TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension ?
Active Ingredient : hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex Inactive Ingredients : Ascorbic acid , D & C Yellow No . 10 , ethylcellulose , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavor , high fructose corn syrup , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 3350 , polysorbate 80 , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sucrose , vegetable oil , xanthan gum .
Manufactured for : UCB , Inc .
Smyrna , GA 30080 For more information about TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended - Release Suspension call 1 - 844 - 599 - 2273 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 115 mL Bottle Label NDC 53014 - 548 - 01 Rx ONLY CII Tussionex ® Pennkinetic ® ( hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ) Extended - Release Suspension equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate / 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate per 5 mL Nonalcoholic 12 - hour Dosing Contraindicated in children under 6 years of age Dispense enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Dispense entire carton as one unit 4 oz .
( 115 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
