MEDICATION GUIDE Gabapentin Capsules , USP Gabapentin Tablets , USP ( gab '' a pen ' tin ) What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin ?
Do not stop taking gabapentin without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping gabapentin suddenly can cause serious problems .
Gabapentin can cause serious side effects including : 1 .
Suicidal Thoughts .
Like other antiepileptic drugs , gabapentin may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • • thoughts about suicide or dying • • attempts to commit suicide • • new or worse depression • • new or worse anxiety • • feeling agitated or restless • • panic attacks • • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • • new or worse irritability • • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • • acting on dangerous impulses • • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • • other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
• • Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
• • Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Do not stop taking gabapentin without first talking to a healthcare provider .
• • Stopping gabapentin suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping a seizure medicine suddenly in a patient who has epilepsy can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
• • Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
2 .
Changes in behavior and thinking - Using gabapentin in children 3 to 12 years of age can cause emotional changes , aggressive behavior , problems with concentration , restlessness , changes in school performance , and hyperactivity .
3 .
Gabapentin may cause serious or life - threatening allergic reactions that may affect your skin or other parts of your body such as your liver or blood cells .
This may cause you to be hospitalized or to stop gabapentin .
You may or may not have a rash with an allergic reaction caused by gabapentin .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • • skin rash • • hives • • difficulty breathing • • fever • • swollen glands that do not go away • • swelling of your face , lips , throat or tongue • • yellowing of your skin or of the whites of the eyes • • unusual bruising or bleeding • • severe fatigue or weakness • • unexpected muscle pain • • frequent infections These symptoms may be the first signs of a serious reaction .
A healthcare provider should examine you to decide if you should continue taking gabapentin .
What is gabapentin ?
Gabapentin is a prescription medicine used to treat : • • Partial seizures when taken together with other medicines in adults and children 3 years of age and older with seizures .
Who should not take gabapentin ?
Do not take gabapentin if you are allergic to gabapentin or any of the other ingredients in gabapentin .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in gabapentin .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking gabapentin ?
Before taking gabapentin , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • have or have had kidney problems or are on hemodialysis • • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • • have diabetes • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if gabapentin can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking gabapentin .
You and your healthcare provider will decide if you should take gabapentin while you are pregnant .
• oPregnancy Registry : If you become pregnant while taking gabapentin , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 .
• • are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Gabapentin can pass into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide how you will feed your baby while you take gabapentin .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking gabapentin with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well they work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take gabapentin ?
• • Take gabapentin exactly as prescribed .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much gabapentin to take .
• oDo not change your dose of gabapentin without talking to your healthcare provider .
• oIf you take gabapentin tablets and break a tablet in half , the unused half of the tablet should be taken at your next scheduled dose .
Half tablets not used within 28 days of breaking should be thrown away .
• oTake gabapentin capsules with water .
• • Gabapentin tablets can be taken with or without food .
If you take an antacid containing aluminum and magnesium , such as Maalox ® , Mylanta ® , Gelusil ® , Gaviscon ® , or Di - Gel ® , you should wait at least 2 hours before taking your next dose of gabapentin .
If you take too much gabapentin , call your healthcare provider or your local Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
What should I avoid while taking gabapentin ?
• • Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking gabapentin without first talking with your healthcare provider .
Taking gabapentin with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
• • Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how gabapentin affects you .
Gabapentin can slow your thinking and motor skills .
What are the possible side effects of gabapentin ?
Gabapentin may cause serious side effects including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin ? ”
• • problems driving while using gabapentin .
See “ What I should avoid while taking gabapentin ? ”
• • sleepiness and dizziness , which could increase the occurrence of accidental injury , including falls • • The most common side effects of gabapentin include : • • lack of coordination • • feeling tired • • viral infection • • fever • • feeling drowsy • • jerky movements • • nausea and vomiting • • difficulty with coordination • • difficulty with speaking • • double vision • • tremor • • unusual eye movement • • swelling , usually of legs and feet Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of gabapentin .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store gabapentin ?
Store gabapentin capsules and tablets between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep gabapentin and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of gabapentin Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use gabapentin for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give gabapentin to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about gabapentin .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about gabapentin that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information call ScieGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 724 - 3436 .
What are the ingredients in gabapentin capsules , USP ?
Active ingredient : gabapentin , USP Inactive ingredients in the capsules : Pregelatinized starch ( maize ) , lactose monohydrate , and talc .
The 100 - mg capsule shell also contains : gelatin , titanium dioxide , and FD & C Blue 2 .
The 300 - mg capsule shell also contains : gelatin , titanium dioxide , ferric oxide yellow .
The 400 - mg capsule shell also contains : gelatin , titanium dioxide , ferric oxide yellow , and FD & C Blue 2 .
The imprinting ink contains shellac , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , strong ammonia solution , black iron oxide , and potassium hydroxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
All brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners .
HOW SUPPLIED 100 mg Capsules ( White / White colored , size ' 3 ' hard gelatin capsules with " 103 " printed on body of capsules containing white to off white granular powder ) Bottles of 100 & 500 HOW SUPPLIED 300 mg Capsules ( Yellow / Yellow colored , size ' 1 ' hard gelatin capsules with " 104 " printed on body of capsules containing white to off white granular powder ) Bottles of 100 & 500 HOW SUPPLIED 400 mg Capsules ( Orange / Orange colored , size ' 0 ' hard gelatin capsules with " 105 " printed on body of capsules containing white to off white granular powder ) Bottles of 100 & 500 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 300 mg 60 71610 - 088 - 53 90 71610 - 088 - 60 180 71610 - 088 - 80 270 71610 - 088 - 92 360 71610 - 088 - 94 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20180712 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 300 mg NDC 71610 - 088 - Gabapentin 300 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
