DESCRIPTION Each mL of Selenium Sulfide 2 . 25 % Shampoo contains 22 . 5 mg selenium sulfide , and the following inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , D & C yellow No . 10 , FD & C red No . 40 , fragrance , panthenol , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , pyrithione zinc , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , tocopherol acetate , triacetin , urea , xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Selenium sulfide appears to have a cytostatic effect on cells of the epidermis and follicular epithelium , reducing corneocyte production .
PHARMACOKINETICS The mechanism of action of topically applied selenium sulfide is not yet known .
INDICATIONS & USAGE A liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , dandruff and tinea versicolor .
Urea hydrates and is useful for conditions such as dry scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
PRECAUTIONS General This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Do not use on broken skin or inflamed areas .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Dermal application of 25 % and 50 % solutions of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide lotion on mice over an 88 - week period indicated no carcinogenic effects .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Under ordinary circumstances , selenium sulfide 2 . 25 % shampoo should not be used by pregnant women .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether or not this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In decreasing order of severity : skin irritation ; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss ; discoloration of hair ( can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment ) .
As with other shampoos , oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur .
To report a serious adverse event , please contact Westminster Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 844 - 221 - 7294 or call FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There are no documented reports of serious toxicity in humans resulting from acute ingestion of selenium sulfide 2 . 25 % shampoo .
However , acute toxicity studies in animals suggest that ingestion of large amounts could result in potential human toxicity .
Evacuation of the stomach contents should be considered in cases of acute oral ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING For seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Generally two applications each week for two weeks will control symptoms .
Subsequently , shampoo may be used less frequently , or as directed by a physician .
It should not be applied more frequently than necessary to maintain control .
For tinea versicolor Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Allow product to remain on skin for ten minutes , then rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Repeat procedure once a day for seven days or as directed by a physician .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED Selenium Sulfide 2 . 25 % Shampoo is supplied in 180 mL bottles , NDC 69367 - 229 - 18 .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC Nashville , TN 37217 Rev . 09 / 22 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 180 mL Bottle Label NDC 69367 - 229 - 18 Rx Only SELENIUM SULFIDE 2 . 25 % Shampoo with urea and zinc pyrithione 6 fl .
oz .
( 180 mL ) Westminster Pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
