For Intrapleural Administration Only Shake Well Immediately Before Using DESCRIPTION Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( sterile talc powder 4 g ) is a sclerosing agent for intrapleural administration supplied as a single - use , pressurized spray canister with two delivery nozzles of 15 cm and 25 cm in length .
Each canister contains 4 g of talc , either white or off - white to light grey , asbestos - free , and brucite - free grade of talc of controlled granulometry .
The composition of the talc is ≥ 95 % talc as hydrated magnesium silicate .
The empirical formula is Mg3Si4O10 ( OH ) 2 with molecular weight of 379 . 3 .
Associated naturally occurring minerals include chlorite ( hydrated aluminum and magnesium silicate ) , dolomite ( calcium and magnesium carbonite ) , calcite ( calcium carbonate ) and quartz .
Talc is practically insoluble in water , and in dilute solutions of acids and alkali hydroxides .
The canister and delivery nozzles have been sterilized by gamma irradiation .
The aerosol propellant contained in Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol is 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - Tetrafluoroethane ( HFA - 134 a ) with 25 g present per canister .
The canister delivers 1 . 2 g of talc per second through the valve and the product contains no other excipients .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : The therapeutic action of talc instilled into the pleural cavity is thought to result from induction of an inflammatory reaction .
This reaction promotes adherence of the visceral to the parietal pleura , obliterating the pleural space and preventing reaccumulation of pleural fluid .
The extent of talc systemically absorbed after intrapleural administration has not been adequately studied .
Systemic exposure could be affected by the integrity of the visceral pleura , and therefore could be increased if talc is administered immediately following lung resection or biopsy .
CLINICAL STUDIES The data demonstrating safety and efficacy of talc in the treatment of malignant pleural effusions are derived from the published medical literature .
The following four trials were prospective , randomized studies of talc vs . a concurrent control , and provide sufficient detail for evaluation , including a clear , readily determined definition of response ( no fluid reaccumulation by chest roentgenogram at one month or greater ) and information allowing an analysis of all patients randomized .
Talc was statistically significantly superior to the control arms in evaluable patients across the studies .
* p values are two - sided REFERENCE TREATMENT TUMOR RESPONSE RATE IN EVALUABLE PTS p value : Fisher ' s Exact * RESPONSE RATE IN ALL PATIENTS p value : Fisher ' s Exact * MINIMUM DURATION OF RESPONSE Sorenson et al .
Eur J Respir Dis .
1984 ; 65 : 131 Talc slurry vs Chest tube drainage Variety 100 % ( 9 / 9 ) vs 58 % ( 7 / 12 ) p = 0 . 022 64 % ( 9 / 14 ) vs 41 % ( 7 / 17 ) p = 0 . 285 3 months Fentiman et al .
Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol 1986 ; 22 : 1079 Talc poudrage vs Tetracycline solution Breast 92 % ( 11 / 12 ) vs 48 % ( 10 / 21 ) p = 0 . 022 61 % ( 11 / 18 ) vs 43 % ( 10 / 23 ) p = 0 . 345 12 months Fentiman et al .
Cancer 1983 ; 52 : 737 Talc poudrage vs Mustine solution Breast 90 % ( 18 / 20 ) vs 53 % ( 9 / 17 ) p = 0 . 023 78 % ( 18 / 23 ) vs 39 % ( 9 / 23 ) p = 0 . 016 6 months Hamed et al .
Br .
J . Surg 1989 ; 76 : 1266 Talc poudrage vs Bleomycin solution Breast 100 % ( 10 / 10 procedures ) vs 33 % ( 5 / 15 procedures ) p = 0 . 001 ( unclear ; results reported as procedures , not patients ) ≥ 1 months In other studies , greater than 1000 patients with malignant pleural effusions have been reported ( with varying degrees of detail and durations of response ) to have had successful pleurodesis with talc .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol , administered by aerosol during thoracoscopy or open thoracotomy , is indicated to prevent recurrence of malignant pleural effusions in symptomatic patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS None .
PRECAUTIONS General : 1 ) Future procedures .
The possibility of future diagnostic and therapeutic procedures involving the hemithorax to be treated must be considered prior to administering Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol .
Sclerosis of the pleural space may preclude subsequent diagnostic procedures of the pleura on the treated side .
Talc sclerosis may complicate or preclude future ipsilateral lung resective surgery , including pneumonectomy for transplantation purposes .
2 ) Use in potentially curable disease .
Talc has no known antineoplastic activity and should not be used for potentially curable malignancies where systemic therapy would be more appropriate , e . g . , a malignant effusion secondary to a potentially curable lymphoma .
3 ) Potential pulmonary complications .
Acute pneumonitis or acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) have rarely been reported in association with intrapleural talc administration .
Whether these were causally related to talc is unclear .
In none of the reported cases was talc applied thoracoscopically or by insufflation .
Three of four case reports of ARDS have occurred after treatment with 10 g of talc administered via intrapleural chest tube instillation .
One patient died one month post treatment and two patients recovered without further sequelae .
Intravenous administration of talc is a well - recognized cause of pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary lung parenchymal disease , but these complications have not been reported after intrapleural administration .
Pulmonary diseases , e . g . , silicosis or asbestosis - like diseases , chronic bronchitis , bronchogenic carcinoma , and pleural plaques have been reported in association with inhaled talc .
4 ) Contents under pressure .
The contents of the Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( sterile talc powder ) canister are under pressure .
The canister must not be punctured and should not be used or stored near heat or open flame .
Drug Interactions : It is not known whether the effectiveness of a second sclerosing agent after prior talc pleurodesis would be diminished by the absorptive properties of talc .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies on the carcinogenicity of talc have been performed using non - standard designs in which talc and its asbestos content were not fully characterized , preventing firm conclusions on its carcinogenicity .
Tumor incidence in rats was not increased following either a single 20 mg injection with a 6 month recovery period or weekly injections of 25 mg for 4 weeks with an 84 - week recovery period .
Genotoxicity was assessed in cultures of rat pleural mesothelial cells ( RPMC ) , as unscheduled DNA syntheses ( UDS ) and sister chromatid exchanges ( SCEs ) .
Asbestos - free talc was negative for genotoxicity under the conditions tested .
No information is available on impairment of fertility in animals by talc .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy category B .
An oral administration study has been performed in the rabbit at 900 mg / kg , approximately 5 - fold higher than the human dose on mg / m ² basis , and has revealed no evidence of teratogenicity due to talc .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should not be used during pregnancy unless it is clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and efficacy of Sclerosol Intrapleural Aerosol ® ( sterile talc powder ) in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : The mean and median ages of patients treated with talc in the clinical studies table were 50 - 62 years .
No analyses to specifically evaluate the safety and efficacy in the geriatric population have been reported .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Talc administration has been described in more than 1500 patients reported in the medical literature .
Patients with malignant pleural effusions were treated with talc via poudrage or slurry .
In general , with respect to reported adverse experiences , it is difficult to distinguish the effects of talc from the effects of the procedure ( s ) associated with its administration .
The most reported common adverse experiences were fever and pain .
Almost all of the cases of fever , and over half of the cases of pain , were in patients who received diagnostic biopsies at the time of talc administration .
Infections : Empyema was a rare complication of talc administration and / or the procedure .
Biopsies had been obtained prior to onset in over half the reported cases .
Respiratory : Rare instances of pneumonia , ARDS , dyspnea , bronchopleural fistula , hemoptysis , and pulmonary emboli have been reported .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , myocardial infarction , hypotension , hypovolemia , and asystolic arrest associated with surgery and / or anesthesia have been rarely reported .
Delivery Procedure : Adverse reactions due to the delivery procedure and the chest tube may include : infection at the site of thoracostomy or thoracoscopy , localized bleeding , and subcutaneous empyema .
Chronic Toxicity : Lange et al .
( Thorax 1988 ; 43 : 559 ) reported on 114 consecutive cases of idiopathic spontaneous pneumothorax treated with talc poudrage ( 60 patients ) , or simple drainage ( 54 patients ) via an intercostal tube .
Pulmonary function tests ( FEV1 , VC , TLC , and RV ) 22 to 35 years after treatment , showed no significant differences in the incidence of pleural changes between the two groups .
Two patients treated with talc poudrage had more extensive pleural thickening with calcification .
The mean total lung capacities were 89 % of predicted in the talc group and 96 % in the drainage only group .
Fourteen patients ( 12 lifelong heavy smokers , 2 non - smokers ) had airflow limitation ( 5 severe ) .
Source and purity of the talc used was not reported .
No cases of mesothelioma were reported .
One case report noted the occurrence of adenocarcinoma of the chest wall two years after pleurodesis following 10 g of 1 % iodized talc ( administered for recurrent pneumothorax ) .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosages have not been reported .
See PRECAUTIONS : 3 ) Potential pulmonary complications .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( sterile talc powder ) is administered after adequate drainage of the effusion .
It has been suggested that success of the pleurodesis is related to the completeness of the drainage of the pleural fluid , as well as full reexpansion of the lung , both of which will promote symphysis of the pleural surfaces .
The usual dosage of Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( sterile talc powder ) is a single 4 - 8 g dose delivered intrapleurally from the spray canister ( 1 - 2 cans ) , which delivers talc at a rate of 1 . 2 g per second .
ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURE Shake canister well before usage .
Remove protective cap and securely attach actuator button with its delivery nozzle ( either 15 cm or 25 cm ) to the valve stem of canister .
Insert delivery nozzle through pleural trocar , taking care not to place the distal end of the delivery nozzle adjacent to the lung parenchyma or directly against the chest wall .
While firmly holding the delivery nozzle and pleural trocar together in one hand , gently apply pressure to the actuator button on the canister .
Sclerosol Intrapleural Aerosol ® is not delivered by metered dose , but depends on the extent and duration of manual compression of the actuator button on the canister .
The distal end of the delivery nozzle should be pointed in several different directions , while short bursts are administered in order to distribute the talc powder equally and extensively on all visceral and parietal pleural surfaces .
For optimal distribution , always maintain the Sclerosol Intrapleural Aerosol ® ( sterile talc powder ) canister in the upright position .
After application , discard the canister and delivery nozzle .
The duration of chest tube drainage following talc sclerosis is dictated by the clinical situation .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC 63256 - 100 - 30 : Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( sterile talc powder ) contains 4 g of talc suspended in 25 g of inert propellant in a single - use aluminum canister .
The canister is fitted with a continuous spray valve which delivers approximately 1 . 2 g of talc per second .
This canister , attached to an actuator button , and two delivery nozzles of 15 cm and 25 cm length , are supplied in a sterile , flexible plastic peel pack .
STORAGE : Warning : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Store between 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect against sunlight and do not expose to a temperature above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) , or the canister may rupture .
Avoid freezing .
Shake well before using .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Bryan Corporation , Woburn MA 01801 October 2012 Principal Display Panel – Pouch Label Sclerosol ® Intrapleural Aerosol ( Sterile Talc Powder ) NDC 63256 - 100 - 30 Reorder No . 1680 Description : Spray can containing 4 g of asbestos - free talc .
Precisely measured & uniform particle size .
Supplied sterile with two nozzles ( 15 cm and 25 cm ) Lot # XXXXX Expires XXXX Bryan Corporation 800 - 343 - 7711 or 781 - 935 - 0004 CONTENTS STERILE SHAKE WELL IMMEDIATELY BEFORE USING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Canister Label SCLEROSOL ® INTRAPLEURAL AEROSOL ( STERILE TALC POWDER ) NDC 63256 - 100 - 30 CAT .
No : 1680 DESTROY AFTER ONE USE Please read instructions before use .
Spray canister containing 4 grams of asbestos - free & brucite - free talc .
Precisely measured , uniform particle size , supplied sterile with two nozzles ( 15 cm and 25 cm ) .
Net Weight : 30 g Content : Talc 4 grams 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - Tetrafluoroethane ( HFA - 134 a / P ) with 25 grams per canister Delivers approximately 1 . 2 g of talc / second [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
