1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RHOFADE ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of persistent facial erythema associated with rosacea in adults .
Rhofade cream is an alpha1A adrenoceptor agonist indicated for the topical treatment of persistent facial erythema associated with rosacea in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
RHOFADE cream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Prime the RHOFADE cream pump before using for the first time .
To do so , with the pump in the upright position , repeatedly depress the actuator until cream is dispensed and then pump three times .
Discard the cream from priming actuations .
It is only necessary to prime the pump before the first dose .
RHOFADE cream tubes do not require priming .
Apply a pea - sized amount of RHOFADE cream , once daily in a thin layer to cover the entire face ( forehead , nose , each cheek , and chin ) avoiding the eyes and lips .
Wash hands immediately after applying RHOFADE cream .
• Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Prime pump bottle before initial use and discard product from first three pumps .
( 2 ) • Apply a pea - sized amount once daily in a thin layer to cover the entire face ( forehead , nose , each cheek , and chin ) avoiding the eyes and lips .
( 2 ) • Wash hands after application .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS RHOFADE ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream , 1 % is a white to off - white cream .
Each gram of cream contains 10 mg ( 1 % ) oxymetazoline hydrochloride , equivalent to 8 . 8 mg ( 0 . 88 % ) of oxymetazoline free base .
Cream , 1 % .
Each gram of cream contains 10 mg ( 1 % ) oxymetazoline hydrochloride , equivalent to 8 . 8 mg ( 0 . 88 % ) of oxymetazoline free base .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Alpha - adrenergic agonists as a class may impact blood pressure .
Advise patients with cardiovascular disease , orthostatic hypotension , and / or uncontrolled hypertension or hypotension to seek medical care if their condition worsens .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use with caution in patients with cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , thromboangiitis obliterans , scleroderma , or Sjögren ' s syndrome and advise patients to seek medical care if signs and symptoms of potentiation of vascular insufficiency develop .
( 5 . 2 ) • Advise patients to seek immediate medical care if signs and symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma develop .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Potential Impacts on Cardiovascular Disease Alpha - adrenergic agonists may impact blood pressure .
RHOFADE cream should be used with caution in patients with severe or unstable or uncontrolled cardiovascular disease , orthostatic hypotension , and uncontrolled hypertension or hypotension .
Advise patients with cardiovascular disease , orthostatic hypotension , and / or uncontrolled hypertension / hypotension to seek immediate medical care if their condition worsens .
5 . 2 Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency RHOFADE cream should be used with caution in patients with cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , thromboangiitis obliterans , scleroderma , or Sjögren ' s syndrome .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical care if signs and symptoms of potentiation of vascular insufficiency develop .
5 . 3 Risk of Angle Closure Glaucoma RHOFADE cream may increase the risk of angle closure glaucoma in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical care if signs and symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma develop .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) are application site dermatitis , worsening inflammatory lesions of rosacea , application site pruritis , application site erythema , and application site pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 833 - 225 - 2747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 489 subjects with persistent facial erythema associated with rosacea were treated with RHOFADE cream once daily for 4 weeks in 3 controlled clinical trials .
An additional 440 subjects with persistent facial erythema associated with rosacea were also treated with RHOFADE cream once daily for up to one year in a long - term ( open - label ) clinical trial .
Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with RHOFADE cream through 4 weeks of treatment are presented in Table 1 below .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 1 % of Subjects through 4 Weeks of Treatment in Controlled Clinical TrialsAdverse Reaction Pooled Controlled Clinical Trials RHOFADE Cream ( N = 489 ) Vehicle Cream ( N = 483 ) Application site dermatitis 9 ( 2 % ) 0 Worsening inflammatory lesions of rosacea 7 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Application site pruritus 5 ( 1 % ) 4 ( 1 % ) Application site erythema 5 ( 1 % ) 2 ( < 1 % ) Application site pain 4 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) In the long - term ( open - label ) clinical trial , the rates of adverse reactions over a one - year treatment period were as follows : worsening inflammatory lesions of rosacea ( 3 % ) , application site dermatitis ( 3 % ) , application site pruritis ( 2 % ) , application site pain ( 2 % ) , and application site erythema ( 2 % ) .
Subjects with persistent erythema along with inflammatory lesions were allowed to use additional therapy for the inflammatory lesions of rosacea .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Anti - hypertensives / Cardiac Glycosides Alpha - adrenergic agonists , as a class , may impact blood pressure .
Caution in using drugs such as beta - blockers , anti - hypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides is advised .
Caution should also be exercised in patients receiving alpha1 adrenergic receptor antagonists such as in the treatment of cardiovascular disease , benign prostatic hypertrophy , or Raynaud ' s disease .
7 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Caution is advised in patients taking MAO inhibitors which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on RHOFADE cream use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
A literature article describing intranasal decongestant use in pregnant women identified a potential association between second - trimester exposure to oxymetazoline ( with no decongestant exposure in the first trimester ) and renal collecting system anomalies [ see Data ] .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental effects observed after oral administration of oxymetazoline hydrochloride in pregnant rats and rabbits at systemic exposures up to 3 times and 73 times , respectively , the exposure associated with the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Following repeated use of oxymetazoline hydrochloride solution nasal spray for the treatment of nasal congestion at a dose 5 times higher than recommended , one case of fetal distress was reported in a 41 - week pregnant patient .
The fetal distress resolved hours later , prior to the delivery of the healthy infant .
The anticipated exposures for the case are 8 - to18 - fold higher than plasma exposures after topical administration of RHOFADE cream .
Data Human Data No adequate and well - controlled trials of RHOFADE cream have been conducted in pregnant women .
Across all clinical trials of RHOFADE cream , two pregnancies were reported .
One pregnancy resulted in the delivery of a healthy child .
One pregnancy resulted in a spontaneous abortion , which was considered to be unrelated to the trial medication .
A literature article summarizing the results of exploratory analyses of intranasal decongestant use during pregnancy identified a potential association between second - trimester exposure to oxymetazoline hydrochloride solution ( with no decongestant exposure in the first trimester ) and renal collecting system anomalies .
Animal Data Effects on embryo - fetal development were evaluated in rats and rabbits following oral administration of oxymetazoline hydrochloride during the period of organogenesis .
Oxymetazoline hydrochloride did not cause adverse effects to the fetus at oral doses up to 0 . 2 mg / kg / day in pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis ( 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
Oxymetazoline hydrochloride did not cause adverse effects to the fetus at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg / day in pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis ( 73 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , such as decreased maternal body weight , was produced at the high dose of 1 mg / kg / day in pregnant rabbits and was associated with findings of delayed skeletal ossification .
In a rat perinatal and postnatal development study , oxymetazoline hydrochloride was orally administered to pregnant rats once daily from gestation day 6 through lactation day 20 .
Maternal toxicity was produced at the high dose of 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) in pregnant rats and was associated with an increase in pup mortality and reduced pup body weights .
Delayed sexual maturation was noted at 0 . 1 and 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD and 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis , respectively ) .
Oxymetazoline hydrochloride did not have any adverse effects on fetal development at a dose of 0 . 05 mg / kg / day ( one - half of the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation No clinical data are available to assess the effects of oxymetazoline on the quantity or rate of breastmilk production , or to establish the level of oxymetazoline present in human breastmilk post - dose .
Oxymetazoline was detected in the milk of lactating rats .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for RHOFADE cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from RHOFADE cream or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of RHOFADE cream have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 18 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use One hundred and ninety - three subjects aged 65 years and older received treatment with RHOFADE cream ( n = 135 ) or vehicle ( n = 58 ) in clinical trials .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects ≥ 65 years of age and younger subjects , based on available data .
Clinical studies of RHOFADE cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE RHOFADE cream is not for oral use .
If oral ingestion occurs , seek medical advice .
Monitor patient closely and administer appropriate supportive measures as necessary .
Accidental ingestion of topical solutions ( nasal sprays ) containing imidazoline derivatives ( e . g . , oxymetazoline ) in children has resulted in serious adverse events requiring hospitalization , including nausea , vomiting , lethargy , tachycardia , decreased respiration , bradycardia , hypotension , hypertension , sedation , somnolence , mydriasis , stupor , hypothermia , drooling , and coma .
Keep RHOFADE cream out of reach of children .
11 DESCRIPTION RHOFADE ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream , 1 % contains oxymetazoline hydrochloride , an alpha1A adrenoceptor agonist .
RHOFADE is a white to off - white cream .
It has a chemical name of 3 - [ ( 4 , 5 - Dihydro1H - imidazol - 2 - yl ) methyl ] - 6 - ( 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) - 2 , 4 - dimethyl - phenol hydrochloride and a molecular weight of 296 . 8 .
It is freely soluble in water and ethanol and has a partition coefficient of 0 . 1 in 1 - octanol / water .
The molecular formula of oxymetazoline HCl is C16H25ClN2O and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of RHOFADE ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream contains 10 mg ( 1 % ) oxymetazoline hydrochloride , equivalent to 8 . 8 mg ( 0 . 88 % ) of oxymetazoline free base .
The cream contains the following inactive ingredients : sodium citrate dihydrate , citric acid anhydrous , disodium edetate dihydrate , butylated hydroxytoluene , anhydrous lanolin , medium chain triglycerides , diisopropyl adipate , oleyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol 300 , PEG - 6 stearate , glycol stearate , PEG - 32 stearate , cetostearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 6 , stearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 25 , methylparaben , propylparaben , phenoxyethanol , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxymetazoline is an alpha1A adrenoceptor agonist .
Oxymetazoline acts as a vasoconstrictor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of RHOFADE cream has not been studied .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of oxymetazoline was evaluated following topical administration of RHOFADE cream in a thin layer to cover the entire face in adult subjects with erythema associated with rosacea .
The median weight of cream for each dose administration was 0 . 3 g . Plasma oxymetazoline concentrations were measurable in most of the subjects .
Following the first dose application , the mean ± standard deviation ( SD ) peak concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curves from time 0 to 24 hours ( AUC0 - 24 hr ) were 60 . 5 ± 53 . 9 pg / mL and 895 ± 798 pg * hr / mL , respectively .
Following once daily applications for 28 days , the mean ± SD Cmax and AUC0 - 24 hr were 66 . 4 ± 67 . 1 pg / mL and 1050 ± 992 pg * hr / mL , respectively .
Following twice daily applications ( twice the recommended frequency of application ) for 28 days , the mean ± SD Cmax and AUC0 - 24 hr were 68 . 8 ± 61 . 1 pg / mL and 1530 ± 922 pg * hr / mL , respectively .
Distribution An in vitro study demonstrated that oxymetazoline is 56 . 7 % to 57 . 5 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Metabolism In vitro studies using human liver microsomes showed that oxymetazoline was minimally metabolized , generating mono - oxygenated and dehydrogenated products of oxymetazoline .
The percentage of parent drug oxymetazoline remaining was 95 . 9 % after a 120 - minute incubation with human liver microsomes .
Excretion The excretion of oxymetazoline following administration of RHOFADE cream has not been characterized in humans .
Drug Interaction In vitro studies using human liver microsomes demonstrated that oxymetazoline up to the tested concentration of 100 nM had no inhibition on the activities of the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) isoenzymes 1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 / 5 .
Treatment of cultured human hepatocytes with up to 100 nM oxymetazoline did not induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Oxymetazoline hydrochloride was not associated with an increased incidence of neoplastic or proliferative changes in transgenic mice given oral doses of 0 . 5 , 1 . 0 , or 2 . 5 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline hydrochloride for 6 months .
Oxymetazoline hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
Effects on fertility and early embryonic development were evaluated in rats following oral administration of 0 . 05 , 0 . 1 , or 0 . 2 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline hydrochloride prior to and during mating and through early pregnancy .
Decreased number of corpora lutea and increased post - implantation losses were noted at 0 . 2 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline hydrochloride ( 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
However , no treatment related effects on fertility or mating parameters were noted at 0 . 2 mg / kg / day oxymetazoline hydrochloride ( 3 times the MRHD on an AUC comparison basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES RHOFADE cream was evaluated for the treatment of persistent erythema associated with rosacea in two identical , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , parallel - group clinical trials .
The trials enrolled 885 subjects aged 18 years and older .
Overall , 90 % of subjects were Caucasian and 79 % were female .
Subjects applied either RHOFADE cream or vehicle once daily for 29 days .
Disease severity was graded by the clinician using a 5 - point clinician erythema assessment ( CEA ) scale and by the subject on a similar 5 - point subject self - assessment ( SSA ) scale , on which subjects scored either " moderate " or " severe " on both scales .
CEA and SSA were measured over a 12 - hour period at equally - spaced timepoints ( hours 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 ) post dose on Days 1 , 15 , and 29 .
The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as the proportion of subjects with at least a 2 - grade reduction in erythema ( improvement ) from baseline ( pre - dose on Day 1 ) on both the CEA and SSA measured at hours 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 on Day 29 .
The results from both trials on the composite endpoint for Day 29 are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Proportion of Subjects Achieving Composite Success [ 1 ] on Day 29 Time - point ( Hour ) Trial 1 Trial 2 RHOFADE Cream ( N = 222 ) Vehicle Cream ( N = 218 ) RHOFADE Cream ( N = 224 ) Vehicle Cream ( N = 221 ) 3 12 % 6 % 14 % 7 % 6 16 % 8 % 13 % 5 % 9 18 % 6 % 16 % 9 % 12 15 % 6 % 12 % 6 % [ 1 ] Composite success is defined as the proportion of subjects achieving at least a 2 - grade improvement on both CEA and SSA .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RHOFADE ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream , 1 % , is a white to off - white cream .
The product is available in a laminated tube and an airless pump polypropylene bottle in the following packaging configurations , each with a child - resistant closure : NDC 71180 - 003 - 30 30 gram tube NDC 71180 - 003 - 60 60 gram tube NDC 71180 - 003 - 35 30 gram pump NDC 71180 - 003 - 65 60 gram pump Storage : Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and / or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Important Administration Instructions Advise patients of the following : • RHOFADE cream is for topical use only .
• RHOFADE cream pumps require priming before initial use and discard product from the first three pumps .
• Do not apply RHOFADE cream to irritated skin or open wounds .
• Avoid contact with the eyes and lips .
• Wash hands immediately after application .
• Keep RHOFADE cream out of reach of children .
Manufactured for Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . , Wayne , PA 19087 , U . S . A . by DPT Laboratories , Ltd , San Antonio , TX 78215 RHOFADE and its design are registered trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
Aclaris and its design are trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
© 2018 Aclaris .
All rights reserved .
Patented .
U . S . Patent Numbers : U . S . 7 , 812 , 049 ; U . S . 8 , 420 , 688 ; U . S . 8 , 815 , 929 ; U . S . 8 , 883 , 838 and U . S . 9 , 974 , 773 .
Made in the U . S . A . PATIENT INFORMATION RHOFADE ® ( roe ' fayd ) ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Approved : 11 / 2018 Important : RHOFADE cream is for skin ( topical ) use on the face only .
Do not use RHOFADE cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Keep RHOFADE cream out of the reach of children .
Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows RHOFADE cream .
What is RHOFADE cream ?
RHOFADE cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat facial redness due to rosacea that does not go away ( persistent ) in adults .
It is not known if RHOFADE cream is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Before you use RHOFADE cream , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have heart , blood vessel , or blood pressure problems .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help if these conditions worsen .
• have problems with blood circulation or have had a stroke • have Sjögren ' s Syndrome • have scleroderma • have Raynaud ' s phenomenon • have thromboangiitis obliterans • have narrow - angle glaucoma .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help if your glaucoma worsens .
• have irritated skin or open sores on the face • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if RHOFADE cream will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if RHOFADE cream passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you use RHOFADE cream .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , skin products , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using RHOFADE cream with certain other medicines may affect each other and can cause serious side effects .
How should I use RHOFADE cream ?
• See the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your RHOFADE cream tube or pump for information about how to apply RHOFADE cream correctly .
• Use RHOFADE cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Do not use more RHOFADE cream than prescribed .
• RHOFADE cream is for use on your skin only .
Do not use RHOFADE cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Avoid contact with your lips and eyes .
• Do not apply RHOFADE cream to irritated skin or open wounds .
What are the possible side effects of RHOFADE cream ?
The most common side effects of RHOFADE cream include application site reactions of : • skin reactions ( dermatitis ) • worsening of rosacea pimples • itching • redness • pain These are not all the possible side effects of RHOFADE cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store RHOFADE cream ?
• Store RHOFADE cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep RHOFADE cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of RHOFADE cream Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use RHOFADE cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give RHOFADE cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about RHOFADE cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in RHOFADE cream ?
Active ingredient : oxymetazoline hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : sodium citrate dihydrate , citric acid anhydrous , disodium edetate dihydrate , butylated hydroxytoluene , anhydrous lanolin , medium chain triglycerides , diisopropyl adipate , oleyl alcohol , polyethylene glycol 300 , PEG - 6 stearate , glycol stearate , PEG - 32 stearate , cetostearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 6 , stearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 25 , methylparaben , propylparaben , phenoxyethanol , and purified water Manufactured for Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . , Wayne , PA 19087 , U . S . A . by DPT Laboratories , Ltd , San Antonio , TX 78215 RHOFADE and its design are registered trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
Aclaris and its design are trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . © 2018 Aclaris .
All rights reserved .
Patented .
U . S . Patent Numbers : U . S . 7 , 812 , 049 ; U . S . 8 , 420 , 688 ; U . S . 8 , 815 , 929 ; U . S . 8 , 883 , 838 and U . S . 9 , 974 , 773 .
Made in the U . S . A . INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE RHOFADE ® ( roe ' fayd ) ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream Tube Important : • RHOFADE cream is for skin ( topical ) use on the face only .
Do not use RHOFADE cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
• Keep RHOFADE cream out of the reach of children .
• Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows RHOFADE cream .
Read and follow the steps below so that you use your tube of RHOFADE cream correctly : Step 1 : Open the tube of RHOFADE cream by gently pressing down on the child - resistant cap and twisting it counterclockwise until the cap is removed .
Do not squeeze the tube while opening or closing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : When the cap is removed , the tube is not child - resistant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : To apply RHOFADE cream to your face , squeeze a pea - sized amount of RHOFADE cream from the tube onto your fingertip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Apply the pea - sized amount of RHOFADE cream to cover your entire face ( forehead , nose , each cheek , and chin ) 1 time each day .
Spread the cream smoothly and evenly in a thin layer over your face .
• Avoid contact with your eyes and lips .
• Do not apply cream to irritated skin or open wounds .
Step 4 : To close your RHOFADE cream tube , place the cap back on the tube .
Press down on the child - resistant cap and twist clockwise until it stops .
The tube is child - resistant again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Wash your hands right away after applying RHOFADE cream .
How do I store RHOFADE cream ?
• Store RHOFADE cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep RHOFADE cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . , Wayne , PA 19087 , U . S . A . by DPT Laboratories , Ltd , San Antonio , TX 78215 RHOFADE and its design are registered trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
Aclaris and its design are trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
© 2018 Aclaris .
All rights reserved .
Patented .
U . S . Patent Numbers : U . S . 7 , 812 , 049 ; U . S . 8 , 420 , 688 ; U . S . 8 , 815 , 929 ; U . S . 8 , 883 , 838 and U . S . 9 , 974 , 773 .
Made in the U . S . A . Approved : 11 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE RHOFADE ® ( roe ' fayd ) ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream Pump Important : • RHOFADE cream is for skin ( topical ) use on the face only .
Do not use RHOFADE cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
• Keep RHOFADE cream out of the reach of children .
• Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows RHOFADE cream .
Read and follow the steps below so that you use your RHOFADE cream pump correctly : Step 1 : Open the RHOFADE cream pump by pushing down on the child resistant cap and twisting it counterclockwise until the cap is removed .
The clear sticker will break when opening for the first time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : When the cap is removed , the pump is not child - resistant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Prime your RHOFADE cream pump before the first use only .
Hold the pump upright and press down several times until the cream is dispensed onto a tissue .
Pump 3 more times onto the tissue and throw away ( discard ) the tissue .
Your pump is now ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : To apply RHOFADE cream to your face , press down on the pump one time to dispense a pea - sized amount of RHOFADE cream onto your fingertip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Apply the pea - sized amount of RHOFADE cream to cover your entire face ( forehead , nose , each cheek , and chin ) 1 time each day .
Spread the cream smoothly and evenly in a thin layer over your face .
• Avoid contact with your eyes and lips .
• Do not apply RHOFADE cream to irritated skin or open wounds .
Step 4 : To close your RHOFADE cream pump , place the cap back on the pump .
Push down on the child - resistant cap and turn the cap clockwise until it stops .
The pump is child - resistant again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Wash your hands right away after applying RHOFADE cream .
How do I store RHOFADE cream ?
• Store RHOFADE cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep RHOFADE cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc . , Wayne , PA 19087 , U . S . A . by DPT Laboratories , Ltd , San Antonio , TX 78215 RHOFADE and its design are registered trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
Aclaris and its design are trademarks of Aclaris Therapeutics , Inc .
© 2018 Aclaris .
All rights reserved .
Patented .
U . S . Patent Numbers : U . S . 7 , 812 , 049 ; U . S . 8 , 420 , 688 ; U . S . 8 , 815 , 929 ; U . S . 8 , 883 , 838 and U . S . 9 , 974 , 773 .
Made in the U . S . A . Approved : 11 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Tube Carton NDC 71180 - 003 - 30 Rhofade ® ( oxymetazoline hydrochloride ) cream , 1 % * * Each gram of RHOFADE ® cream contains 10 mg of oxymetazoline hydrochloride , equivalent to 8 . 8 mg of oxymetazoline free base For Topical Use Only Keep Out of Reach of Children aclaris ™ THERAPEUTICS Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
