[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are indicated for the acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are a nitrate vasodilator indicated for relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer one tablet under the tongue or in the buccal pouch at the first sign of an acute anginal attack .
Allow tablet to dissolve without swallowing .
One additional tablet may be administered every 5 minutes until relief is obtained .
No more than three tablets are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute period , or if the pain is different than is typically experienced , seek prompt medical attention .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may be used prophylactically 5 minutes to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
For patients with xerostomia , a small sip of water prior to placing the tablet under the tongue may help maintain mucosal hydration and aid dissolution of the tablet .
Administer nitroglycerin sublingual tablets at rest , preferably in the sitting position .
• At the onset of an attack , administer one tablet under the tongue or buccal pouch .
One additional tablet may be administered every 5 minutes as needed .
No more than 3 total tablets are recommended within a 15 minute period .
• If chest pain persists after three tablets , seek prompt medical attention .
• May be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , USP are supplied as white , round , flat - faced tablets in three strengths : 0 . 3 mg ( Coded with “ V ” on one side and “ 3 ” on the other ) 0 . 4 mg ( Coded with “ V ” on one side and “ 4 ” on the other ) 0 . 6 mg ( Coded with “ V ” on one side and “ 6 ” on the other ) Sublingual tablets , 0 . 3 mg ; 0 . 4 mg ; 0 . 6 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Use of phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE - 5 ) inhibitors , such as avanafil , sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil , or soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators .
( 4 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Severe anemia ( 4 . 2 ) • Increased intracranial pressure ( 4 . 3 ) • Hypersensitivity to nitroglycerin sublingual tablets or to other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient ( 4 . 4 ) • Circulatory failure and shock ( 4 . 5 ) 4 . 1 PDE - 5 - Inhibitors and sGC - Stimulators Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets in patients who are taking PDE - 5 Inhibitors , such as avanafil , sildenafil , tadalafil , vardenafil hydrochloride .
Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension , syncope , or myocardial ischemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators , such as riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
4 . 2 Severe Anemia Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe anemia ( large doses of nitroglycerin may cause oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin and could exacerbate anemia ) .
4 . 3 Increased Intracranial Pressure Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may precipitate or aggravate increased intracranial pressure and thus should not be used in patients with possible increased intracranial pressure ( e . g . , cerebral hemorrhage or traumatic brain injury ) .
4 . 4 Hypersensitivity Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are allergic to nitroglycerin , other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient .
4 . 5 Circulatory Failure and Shock Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients with acute circulatory failure or shock .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tolerance : Excessive use may lead to tolerance .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypotension : Severe hypotension may occur .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Tolerance Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance .
Only the smallest dose required for effective relief of the acute angina attack should be used .
A decrease in therapeutic effect of sublingual nitroglycerin may result from use of long - acting nitrates .
5 . 2 Hypotension Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with small doses of nitroglycerin particularly in patients with constrictive pericarditis , aortic or mitral stenosis , patients who may be volume - depleted , or are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Symptoms of severe hypotension ( nausea , vomiting , weakness , pallor , perspiration and collapse / syncope ) may occur even with therapeutic doses .
5 . 3 Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
5 . 4 Headache Nitroglycerin produces dose - related headaches , especially at the start of nitroglycerin therapy , which may be severe and persist but usually subside with continued use .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail elsewhere in the label : • Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Headache [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 4 ) ] Vertigo , dizziness , weakness , palpitation , and other manifestations of postural hypotension may develop occasionally , particularly in erect , immobile patients .
Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates ( manifested by nausea , vomiting , weakness , diaphoresis , pallor , and collapse ) may occur at therapeutic doses .
Syncope due to nitrate vasodilatation has been reported .
Flushing , drug rash , and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
Most common adverse reactions occurring at a frequency greater than 2 % are headache , dizziness and paresthesia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Alvogen , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 770 - 3024 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ergotamine : increased bioavailability of ergotamine .
Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 PDE - 5 - Inhibitors and sGC - Stimulators Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) - specific phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE - 5 ) .
PDE - 5 - Inhibitors such as avanafil , sildenafil , vardenafil , and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are taking soluble guanylate cyclase ( sGC ) stimulators .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of these interactions have not been studied , and use within a few days of one another is not recommended .
Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
7 . 2 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first - pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability .
Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris .
Therefore , patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary Limited published data on the use of nitroglycerin are insufficient to determine a drug associated risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental effects when nitroglycerin was administered intravenously to rabbits or intraperitoneally to rats during organogenesis at doses greater than 64 - times the human dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No embryotoxic or postnatal development effects were observed with transdermal application in pregnant rabbits and rats at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively , at intraperitoneal doses in pregnant rats up to 20 mg / kg / day from gestation day 7 to 17 , and at intravenous doses in pregnant rabbits up to 4 mg / kg / day from gestation day 6 to 18 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk summary Sublingual nitroglycerin has not been studied in lactating women .
It is not known if nitroglycerin is present in human milk or if nitroglycerin has effects on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms , Methemoglobinemia Nitrate overdosage may result in : severe hypotension , persistent throbbing headache , vertigo , palpitation , visual disturbance , flushing and perspiring skin ( later becoming cold and cyanotic ) , nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) , syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) , methemoglobinemia with cyanosis and anorexia , initial hyperpnea , dyspnea and slow breathing , slow pulse ( dicrotic and intermittent ) , heart block , increased intracranial pressure with cerebral symptoms of confusion and moderate fever , paralysis and coma followed by clonic convulsions , and possibly death due to circulatory collapse .
Case reports of clinically significant methemoglobinemia are rare at conventional doses of organic nitrates .
The formation of methemoglobin is dose - related and in the case of genetic abnormalities of hemoglobin that favor methemoglobin formation , even conventional doses of organic nitrates could produce harmful concentrations of methemoglobin .
10 . 2 Treatment of Overdosage As hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known .
Keep the patient recumbent in a shock position and comfortably warm .
Passive movement of the extremities may aid venous return .
Intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
Administer oxygen and artificial ventilation , if necessary .
If methemoglobinemia is present , administration of methylene blue ( 1 % solution ) , 1 - 2 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously , may be required unless the patient is known to have G - 6 - PD deficiency .
If an excessive quantity of nitroglycerin has been recently swallowed gastric lavage may be of use .
As epinephrine is ineffective in reversing the severe hypotensive events associated with overdosage , it is not recommended for resuscitation .
11 DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , USP are a stabilized sublingual compressed nitroglycerin tablet that contains 0 . 3 mg , 0 . 4 mg , or 0 . 6 mg nitroglycerin .
The sublingual tablets also contain the inactive ingredients lactose monohydrate , glyceryl monostearate , pregelatinized corn starch , calcium stearate , and hydrophobic colloidal silica .
Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilating agent .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 propanetriol trinitrate and the chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C3H5N309 Molecular weight : 227 . 09 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide ( NO ) which activates guanylate cyclase , resulting in an increase of guanosine 3 ' 5 ' monophosphate ( cyclic GMP ) in smooth muscle and other tissues .
These events lead to dephosphorylation of myosin light chains , which regulate the contractile state in smooth muscle , and result in vasodilatation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle .
Although venous effects predominate , nitroglycerin produces , in a dose - related manner , dilation of both arterial and venous beds .
Dilation of postcapillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood , decreases venous return to the heart , and reduces left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( preload ) .
Nitroglycerin also produces arteriolar relaxation , thereby reducing peripheral vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( afterload ) , and dilates large epicardial coronary arteries ; however , the extent to which this latter effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic , and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively , or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , and pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably due to a compensatory response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index , and stroke - work index ) is decreased and a more favorable supply - demand ratio can be achieved .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressures and increased systemic vascular resistance in association with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
In contrast , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced following nitroglycerin administration .
Consistent with the symptomatic relief of angina , digital plethysmography indicates that onset of the vasodilatory effect occurs approximately 1 to 3 minutes after sublingual nitroglycerin administration and reaches a maximum by 5 minutes postdose .
Effects persist for at least 25 minutes following nitroglycerin sublingual tablets administration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Nitroglycerin is rapidly absorbed following sublingual administration of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
Mean peak nitroglycerin plasma concentrations occur at a mean time of approximately 6 to 7 minutes postdose ( Table 1 ) .
Maximum plasma nitroglycerin concentrations ( Cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration - time curves ( AUC ) increase dose - proportionally following 0 . 3 mg to 0 . 6 mg nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
The absolute bioavailability of nitroglycerin from nitroglycerin sublingual tablets is approximately 40 % but tends to be variable due to factors influencing drug absorption , such as sublingual hydration and mucosal metabolism .
Table 1 Mean Nitroglycerin ( SD ) Values 2 × 0 . 3 mg 1 × 0 . 6 mg Parameter Nitroglycerin Sublingual Tablets Nitroglycerin Sublingual Tablets Cmax , ng / mL 2 . 3 ( 1 . 7 ) 2 . 1 ( 1 . 5 ) Tmax , min 6 . 4 ( 2 . 5 ) 7 . 2 ( 3 . 2 ) AUC ( 0 –∞ ) , min 14 . 9 ( 8 . 2 ) 14 . 9 ( 11 . 4 ) t ½ , min 2 . 8 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 . 6 ( 0 . 6 ) Distribution The volume of distribution ( VArea ) of nitroglycerin following intravenous administration is 3 . 3 L / kg .
At plasma concentrations between 50 ng / mL and 500 ng / mL , the binding of nitroglycerin to plasma proteins is approximately 60 % , while that of 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is 60 % and 30 % , respectively .
Metabolism A liver reductase enzyme is of primary importance in the metabolism of nitroglycerin to glycerol di - and mononitrate metabolites and ultimately to glycerol and organic nitrate .
Known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
In addition to nitroglycerin , 2 major metabolites 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin , are found in plasma .
Mean peak 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin plasma concentrations occur at approximately 15 minutes postdose .
The elimination half - life of 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin is 36 and 32 minutes , respectively .
The 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerin metabolites have been reported to possess approximately 2 % and 10 % , respectively , of the pharmacological activity of nitroglycerin .
Higher plasma concentrations of the dinitro metabolites , along with their nearly 10 - fold longer elimination half - lives , may contribute significantly to the duration of pharmacologic effect .
Glycerol mononitrate metabolites of nitroglycerin are biologically inactive .
Elimination Nitroglycerin plasma concentrations decrease rapidly , with a mean elimination half - life of 2 to 3 minutes .
Half - life values range from 1 . 5 to 7 . 5 minutes .
Clearance ( 13 . 6 L / min ) greatly exceeds hepatic blood flow .
Metabolism is the primary route of drug elimination .
Drug interactions Aspirin : Coadministration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin ( 1 , 000 mg ) results in increased exposure to nitroglycerin .
The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin .
Tissue - type plasminogen activator ( t - PA ) : Concomitant administration of t - PA and intravenous nitroglycerin has been shown to reduce plasma levels of t - PA and its thrombolytic effect .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal carcinogenesis studies with sublingually administered nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Carcinogenicity potential of nitroglycerin was evaluated in rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years .
Rats developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in males was 48 % and in females was 33 % , compared to 0 % in untreated controls .
Incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1 , 058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was mutagenic in Ames tests performed in 2 different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , PO , or in ex vivo cytogenetic tests in rat and dog cells .
In a 3 - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for 6 months prior to mating of the F0 generation , with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this 3 - generation study , there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 4874 NDC : 50090 - 4874 - 0 25 TABLET in a BOTTLE / 4 in a CARTON NDC : 50090 - 4874 - 1 25 TABLET in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Product of USA Manufactured by : Natco Pharma Limited Kothur - 509 228 Ranga Reddy District , Telangana , India Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Morristown , NJ 07960 USA PI456 - 00 PATIENT INFORMATION Nitroglycerin ( nye " troe glis ' er in ) Sublingual Tablets , USP Read this information carefully before you start nitroglycerin sublingual tablets and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions about nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , ask your doctor .
Your doctor will know if nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are right for you .
What is Nitroglycerin ?
Nitroglycerin is a type of medicine known as an organic nitrate and is a vasodilating agent .
It is used to treat a type of chest pain called angina .
What is Angina ?
Angina is a pain or discomfort that keeps coming back when part of your heart does not get enough blood .
Angina feels like a pressing or squeezing pain , usually in your chest under the breastbone .
Sometimes you can feel it in your shoulders , arms , neck , jaws , or back .
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets can relieve this pain .
Who should not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you are allergic to organic nitrates ( like the active ingredient in nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ) .
You should not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you have the following conditions : • very recent heart attack • severe anemia • increased pressure in the head Do not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets with drugs for erectile dysfunction , like VIAGRA ® ( sildenafil citrate ) , CIALIS ® ( tadalafil ) , or LEVITRA ® ( vardenafil hydrochloride ) , as this may lead to extreme lowering of your blood pressure .
Do not take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets if you take medicines called guanylate cyclase stimulators which include riociguat , a medicine that treats pulmonary arterial hypertension and chronic - thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension .
What should I tell my doctor before taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Before using nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , tell your doctor if : • You are taking any medicines that are used to treat angina , heart failure , or an irregular heartbeat .
• You are taking any medicines that reduce blood pressure .
• You are taking any diuretics ( water pills ) .
• You are taking medicines that can cause dry mouth such as tricyclic antidepressants ( e . g . amitriptyline , desipramine , doxepin ) , anticholinergic drugs , or any antimuscarinic drugs ( e . g . atropine ) .
• You are taking ergotamine or similar drugs for migraine headaches .
• You are taking aspirin .
• You are taking any medicines for erectile dysfunction .
• You are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• You are breastfeeding .
How should I take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
• Do not chew , crush , or swallow nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
• You should sit down when taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets and use caution when you stand up .
This eliminates the possibility of falling due to lightheadedness or dizziness .
• One tablet should be dissolved under the tongue or in the oral cavity at the first sign of chest pain .
• The dose may be repeated approximately every 5 minutes , until the chest pain is relieved .
• If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15 - minute period , or is different than you typically experience , call your doctor or seek emergency help .
• Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may be used 5 minutes to 10 minutes prior to activities that might cause chest pain .
• You may feel a burning or tingling sensation in your mouth when you take nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
What should I avoid while taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
• Do not breastfeed .
It is not known if nitroglycerin will pass through your milk .
• Do not consume alcohol while taking nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , as this can lower your blood pressure .
• Do not start any new prescription or non - prescription medicines or supplements , unless you check with your doctor first .
What are the possible side effects of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may cause the following side effects : • headache • vertigo ( a major symptom of balance disorder ) • dizziness • weakness • heart palpitations ( unusual awareness of the heartbeat ) • low blood pressure upon rising from a seated position • nausea and vomiting • sweating • paleness • fainting • flushing ( warm or red condition of your skin ) • other skin reactions that may be severe Tell your doctor if you are concerned about any side effects you experience .
These are not all the possible side effects of nitroglycerin sublingual tablets .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store nitroglycerin sublingual tablets ?
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets should be kept in the original glass container and tightly capped after each use to prevent loss of tablet potency .
Store nitroglycerin sublingual tablets at room temperature ( between 68 ° and 77 ° F ) .
General advice about nitroglycerin sublingual tablets Sometimes doctors will prescribe a medicine for a condition that is not included in the patient information leaflets .
Only use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets the way your doctor told you to .
Do not give nitroglycerin sublingual tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about nitroglycerin sublingual tablets , or you can call Alvogen , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 770 - 3024 .
Product of USA Manufactured by : Natco Pharma Limited Kothur - 509 228 Ranga Reddy District , Telangana , India Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Morristown , NJ 07960 USA PL456 - 00 Revised : April 2019 NITROGLYCERIN TABLET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
