Rx only DESCRIPTION Cystadane ® ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) is an agent for the treatment of homocystinuria .
Cystadane is a white , granular , hygroscopic powder .
It contains no ingredients other than anhydrous betaine .
Betaine anhydrous powder is very soluble in water , soluble in methanol and ethanol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
The chemical name of betaine anhydrous powder is trimethylglycine .
It has a molecular weight of 117 . 15 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered in recommended oral dosage to children or adults , Cystadane acts as a methyl group donor in the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine in patients with homocystinuria .
As a result , toxic blood levels of homocysteine are reduced in these patients , usually to 20 - 30 percent or less of pre - treatment levels .
Elevated homocysteine blood levels are associated with clinical problems such as a cardiovascular thrombosis , osteoporosis , skeletal abnormalities , and optic lens dislocation .
Plasma levels of homocysteine were decreased in nearly all patients treated with betaine .
In observational studies without concurrent controls , clinical improvement was reported by the treating physicians in about three - fourths of patients taking betaine .
Many of these patients were also taking other therapies such as vitamin B6 ( pyridoxine ) , vitamin B12 ( cobalamin ) , and folate with variable biochemical responses .
In most cases studied , adding betaine resulted in a further reduction of homocysteine .
Betaine was observed to lower plasma homocysteine levels in the three types of homocystinuria , i . e . , cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency ; 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) deficiency ; and cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) defect .
Betaine has also been demonstrated to increase low plasma methionine and S - adenosylmethionine ( SAM ) levels in patients with MTHFR deficiency and cbl defect .
In CBS - deficient patients , large increases in methionine levels over baseline have been observed .
Betaine occurs naturally in the body .
It is a metabolite of choline and is present in small amounts in foods such as beets , spinach , cereals , and seafood .
Pharmacokinetic studies of betaine are not available .
Plasma levels of betaine have not been measured in patients and have not been correlated to homocysteine levels .
However , pharmacodynamic measurements , i . e . , monitoring of plasma homocysteine levels , have demonstrated that the onset of action of betaine is within several days and that a steady state in response to dosage is achieved within several weeks .
Patients have taken betaine for many years without evidence of tolerance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cystadane ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) is indicated for the treatment of homocystinuria to decrease elevated homocysteine blood levels .
Included within the category of homocystinuria are deficiencies or defects in : • cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) , • 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) , • cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) .
Patient response to Cystadane can be monitored by homocysteine plasma levels ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Response usually occurs within a week and steady state within a month .
Cystadane has been administered concomitantly with vitamin B6 ( pyridoxine ) , vitamin B12 ( cobalamin ) , and folate .
PRECAUTIONS General Therapy with Cystadane should be directed by physicians knowledgeable in the management of patients with homocystinuria .
Hypermethioninemia Patients with homocystinuria due to cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency may also have elevated plasma methionine concentrations .
Treatment with Cystadane may further increase methionine concentrations due to the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine .
Cerebral edema has been reported in patients with hypermethioninemia , including a few patients treated with Cystadane .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be monitored in patients with CBS deficiency .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be kept below 1 , 000 umol / L through dietary modification and , if necessary , a reduction of Cystadane dose .
Information for patients • Shake bottle lightly before removing cap .
• Measure with the scoop provided .
• One level scoop ( 1 . 7 cc ) is equivalent to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
Measure the number of scoops your physician has prescribed .
• Mix with 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula until completely dissolved , or mix with food , then ingest immediately .
Always replace the cap tightly after using .
Protect from moisture .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term carcinogenicity and fertility studies have not been conducted on betaine .
No evidence of genotoxicity was demonstrated in the following tests : Metaphase Analysis of Human Lymphocytes ; Bacterial Reverse Mutation Assay ; and Mouse Micronucleus Test .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with betaine .
It is also not known whether betaine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cystadane ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether betaine is excreted in human milk ( although its metabolic precursor , choline , occurs at high levels in human milk ) .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Cystadane is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use The majority of case studies of homocystinuria patients treated with betaine have been pediatric patients .
The disorder , in its most severe form , can be manifested within the first months or years of life by lethargy , failure to thrive , developmental delays , seizures , or optic lens displacement .
Patients have been treated successfully without adverse effects within the first months or years of life with dosages of 6 grams per day or more of betaine with resultant biochemical and clinical improvement .
However , dosage titration may be preferable in pediatric patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to betaine have been minimal .
In a survey study of physicians who had treated a total of 111 homocystinuria patients with betaine , the types of adverse effects and the number of patients experiencing them were as follows : Nausea 2 “ Caused odor ” 1 GI distress 2 Questionable psychological changes 1 Diarrhea 1 “ Aspirated the powder ” 1 Unspecified problem 1 A few cases of cerebral edema have been reported secondary to severe hypermethioninemia in patients with cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency treated with Cystadane .
See PRECAUTIONS : Hypermethioninemia .
OVERDOSAGE In an acute toxicology study in rats , death frequently occurred at doses equal to or greater than 10 , 000 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage used in adult and pediatric patients is 6 grams per day administered orally in divided doses of 3 grams two times per day .
Dosages of up to 20 grams per day have been necessary to control homocysteine levels in some patients .
In pediatric patients less than 3 years of age , dosage may be started at 100 mg / kg / day and then increased weekly by 50 mg / kg increments .
In one study by Matthewsi et al . , pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic simulation indicated minimal benefit from exceeding a twice - daily dosing schedule and a 150 mg / kg / day dosage for betaine .
Dosage in all patients can be gradually increased until plasma total homocysteine is undetectable or present only in small amounts .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be monitored in patients with CBS - deficiency .
See PRECAUTIONS : Hypermethioninemia .
The prescribed amount of Cystadane ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) should be measured with the measuring scoop provided ( one level 1 . 7 cc scoop is equal to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder ) and then dissolved in 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula , or mixed with food for immediate ingestion .
HOW SUPPLIED Cystadane is available in plastic bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
Each bottle is equipped with a plastic child - resistant cap and is supplied with a polystyrene measuring scoop .
One level scoop ( 1 . 7 cc ) is equal to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
NDC 68727 - 400 - 01 180 g / bottle DIN 02238526 Store at room temperature , 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
For questions of a medical nature in the U . S . or Canada , call 1 - 888 - 867 - 7426 .
Cystadane ® can be ordered by calling Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Customer Service at 1 - 800 - 359 - 4304 or by contacting your local wholesaler .
Distributed in the U . S . by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Palo Alto , CA 94304 Distributed in Canada by : Jazz Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Revision Date : August 2006 Part No .
CYS PI - 8585 iMatthews A , Johnson TN , Rostami - Hodjegan A , Chakrapani A , et al .
An indirect response model of homocysteine suppression by betaine : optimizing the dosage regimen of betaine in homocystinuria .
Br J Clin Pharmacol 2002 ; 54 : 140 - 146 .
