DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Purpose Homosalate Sunscreen Octinoxate Sunscreen Oxybenzone Sunscreen Uses : Helps prevent sunburn Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection WARNINGS UV exposure from the sun increases the risk of skin cancer , premature skin aging and other skin damage .
It is important to decrease UV exposure by limiting time in the sun , wearing protective clothing , and using a sunscreen .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact Poison control right away .
Directions : Apply ( select one : liberally , generously , smoothly , or evenly ) before sun exposure and as needed .
Children under 6 months of age ask a doctor Apply 1 - 2 pumps on face , under eyes and on the neck after cleansing .
Use in the morning as your daily moisturizer .
For best results use everyday for at least 6 months .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Ethyl Hexyl Methaxycinnamate , Cyclopentasiloxane , cetearyl ethylhexanoate , octyldodecanon , ethylhexyl palmitate , glycerin , butysprmum parkii ( Shea butter ) , sucrose stearate , 4 - methylbenzylidene camphor , cyclohexasiloxane , cetearyl alcohol , stearic acid , butyl methoxybenzoylmethane , polysilicone - 11 , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , dimethicone , benzyl alcohol , caprylic / capric triglyceride , ascorbyl tetraisopalmitate , punica granatum ( pomegranate ) extract , commiphora mukul resin extract , sodium hyaluronate , acetyl hexapeptide - 8 , palmitoyl pentapeptide - 3 , rosa damascena flower oil , citrus aurantium dulcis ( orange ) flower oil , citrus grandis ( grapefruit ) peel oil , Limonene , citronellol , geraniol , polyacrylamide , c13 - 14 isoparaffin xanthan gum , , tocopherol , ethylhexylglycerin , silica dimethyl silylate , butylene glycol , caprylyl glycol , hexylene glycol , carbomer , disodium EDTA , triethanolamine , laureth - 7 , polysorbate 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] In the age of chemical peels and cosmetic surgery , Rodial has captured natures power by creating a range of supper effective skincare .
Rodial products help to reduce the appearance of specific skin concerns from wrinkles and age spots to cellulite and stretch marks .
In all Rodial products , pomegranate ellagic tannins , with their natural soothing properties are combined with breakthrough natural ingredients clinically tested to show results .
SPF 18 Glamtox Active Daily Moisturizing Sunscreen Lotion with pomegranate ellagic tannin cell protection 1 . 7 fl .
oz .
( 50 ml ) Rodial Glamtox SPF 18 combines daily hydration with vitamins to help reduce the appearance of wrinkles as a non - invasive alternative to surgery .
Micro - injected hyaluronicspheres , Myrrh extract , and Vitamin C help to reduce the appearance of wrinkes and expression lines .
Pomegranate Ellagic Tannins combine with SPF 18 active ingredients to protect and prevent future skin damage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Directions Apply ( select one : liberally , generously , smoothly or evenly ) before sun exposure and as needed .
Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Apply 1 - 2 pumps on face , under eyes and on the neck after cleansing .
Use in the morning as your daily moisturizer .
for best results , user every day for at least 6 months .
Manufactured for Rodial Ltd .
London , SW10 0 SZ , UK Made in the UK www . rodial . co . uk SPF 18 Glamtox Active Daily Moisturizing Sunscreen Lotion with pomegranate ellagic tannin cell protection 1 . 5 fl oz .
( 50 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
