Claims This up + up smooth and glossy 2 in 1 shampoo and conditioner helps prevent the recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff .
Gentle and pH balanced , leaves hair soft and manageable .
Active ingredient Pyrithione zinc 1 % Purpose Anti - dandruff Use helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or does not improve after regular use as directed Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well • for maximum dandruff control , use every time you shampoo • wet hair , massage onto scalp , rinse , repeat if desired • for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Inactive ingIngredient water , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , amodimethicone , cocamide MEA , zinc carbonate , glycol distearate , sodium xylenesulfonate , fragrance , cetyl alcohol , guar hydroxypropyltrimonium chloride , magnesium sulfate , sodium chloride , sodium benzoate , magnesium carbonate hydroxide , benzyl alcohol , trideceth - 12 , cetrimonium chloride , sodium hydroxide , methylchloroisothiazolinone , methylisothiazolinone Questions Call 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter + Gamble , distributor of Head + Shoulders Smooth and Silky 2 in 1 Dandruff Shampoo Adverse Reactions Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign components shop Target . Com principal display panel Compare to Head + Shoulders Smooth and Silky Dandruff Shampoo and Conditioner 2 in 1 Shampoo and conditioner smooth and glossy pyrithione zinc dandruff shampoo and conditioner helps relieve dry , frizzy hair , itching and light flaking Scalp - tastic up + up 23 . 7 FL OZ ( 700 . 8 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
