Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses ■ hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin ■ recommended for repeated use ■ for use when soap and water are not available Warnings For external use only Do not use ■ in children less than 2 months of age ■ on open skin wounds ■ if you are allergic to any of the ingredients When using this product ■ do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ irritation and redness develop ■ condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ pull wipe up from the dispenser feed at an angle and tear from roll with downward motion .
Dispose of wipe in trash .
■ wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping ■ supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information ■ store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) ■ avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients aqua , glycerine , propylene glycol , chamomile extract , didecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride , cetylpyridinium chloride , chlorphenesin , n - alkyl ( C12 - C14 ) dimethyl ethylbenzyl ammonium chloride , citric acid Questions ?
Call + 1 ( 855 ) 55 - CLOTH You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM Alcohol - Free Cleaner & Antibacterial Crocodile Cloth ® | www . crocodilecloth . com | Part # 9161 Nuvik Antibacterial Hand Wipes are a generous 8 " X 10 " and come in a convenient 800 - count roll to minimize refills .
These hand wipes will clean and deodorized by reducing harmful bacteria .
To Dispense : Look for tear - notch located at the top of the refill pouch .
Open pouch by tearing straight across at notch .
Starting from the center of the roll , pull one wipe through the pouch center openingand then thread wipe through the dispenser nozzle .
Adjust nozzle tension on dispenser , if applicable .
For use with upward - pull dispensers ( floor stand or wall units ) only : product will drip in adownward - pull dispenser .
Ideal for ■ Gyms / Training Centers ■ Pilates and Yoga Centers ■ Clubs ■ Dance Studios ■ Tanning Salons ■ Spin / Cycling Studios ■ Day Spas ■ Medical Facilities Recyclable packaging Do not flush used wipes Manufactured for : Nuvik USA Inc Gahanna , Ohio 43230 Made in China www . nuvikglobal . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
