RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions , Neurological Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 3 ) 10 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions , Neurological Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 3 ) 1 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible bacteria .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria : Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1 . 1 ) ; Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1 . 2 ) ; Complicated and Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections ( 1 . 3 ) ; Pelvic Inflammatory Disease ( 1 . 4 ) ; Bacterial Septicemia ( 1 . 5 ) ; Bone and Joint Infections ( 1 . 6 ) ; Intra - abdominal Infections ( 1 . 7 ) ; Meningitis ( 1 . 8 ) ; and Surgical Prophylaxis ( 1 . 9 ) .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 . 10 ) 1 . 1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Lower respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis or Serratia marcescens .
1 . 2 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Viridans group streptococci , Escherichia coli , Enterobacter cloacae , Klebsiella oxytoca , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii [ 1 ] , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus , Bacteroides fragilis null or Peptostreptococcus species .
[ 1 ] The efficacy for these organisms in this organ system were studied in fewer than ten infections .
1 . 3 Complicated and Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Complicated and uncomplicated urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris , Morganella morganii or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
1 . 4 Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae .
Ceftriaxone sodium , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and Chlamydia trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate antichlamydial coverage should be added .
1 . 5 Bacterial Septicemia Bacterial septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae or Klebsiella pneumoniae .
1 . 6 Bone and Joint Infections Bone and joint infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella pneumoniae or Enterobacter species .
1 . 7 Intra - abdominal Infections Intra - abdominal infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Bacteroides fragilis , Clostridium species or Peptostreptococcus species .
1 . 8 Meningitis Meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Neisseria meningitidis or Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Ceftriaxone sodium has also been used successfully in a limited number of cases of meningitis and shunt infection caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis and Escherichia coli , however , the efficacy for these organisms in this organ system were studied in fewer than ten infections .
1 . 9 Surgical Prophylaxis The preoperative administration of a single 1 g dose of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection may reduce the incidence of postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal or abdominal hysterectomy or cholecystectomy for chronic calculous cholecystitis in high - risk patients , such as those over 70 years of age , with acute cholecystitis not requiring therapeutic antimicrobials , obstructive jaundice or common duct bile stones ) and in surgical patients for whom infection at the operative site would present serious risk ( e . g . , during coronary artery bypass surgery ) .
Although ceftriaxone sodium has been shown to have been as effective as cefazolin in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery , no placebo - controlled trials have been conducted to evaluate any cephalosporin antibacterial in the prevention of infection following coronary artery bypass surgery .
1 . 10 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use only over approximately 30 minutes .
( 2 ) Use this formulation of ceftriaxone only in patients who require the entire 1 or 2 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
( 2 . 1 ) Recommended Dosing Schedule for Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Total Daily Dose Usual Adult Dose 1 g to 2 g once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 4 g [ 1 ] Surgical Prophylaxis 1 gram IV once 1 / 2 to 2 hours before surgery Meningitis 100 mg / kg once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 4 g null Skin and Skin Structure Infections 50 mg / kg to 75 mg / kg once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 2 g Serious Infections other than Meningitis 50 mg / kg to 75 mg / kg every 12 hours should not exceed 2 g [ 1 ] Patients with hepatic impairment and significant renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams per day of ceftriaxone .
2 . 1 Adult Population Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX ® Container should be used only in patients who require the entire 1 or 2 gram dose and not any fraction thereof .
The recommended adult dosages are outlined in Table 1 .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should be administered intravenously ( IV ) over approximately 30 minutes .
The usual duration of therapy is 4 to 14 days ; in complicated infections , longer therapy may be required .
When treating infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , therapy should be continued for at least 10 days .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosing Schedule for Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Total Daily Dose Usual Adult Dose 1 g to 2 g once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 4 g [ 1 ] Surgical Prophylaxis 1 gram IV once 1 / 2 to 2 hours before surgery Skin and Skin Structure Infections 50 to 75 mg per kg once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 2 g Meningitis 100 mg per kg once a day or in equally divided doses every 12 hours should not exceed 4 g null Serious Infections other than Meningitis 50 to 75 mg per kg every 12 hours should not exceed 2 g [ 1 ] Patients with hepatic impairment and significant renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams per day of ceftriaxone .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX ® Container is designed to deliver a 1 g or 2 g dose of ceftriaxone .
To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the full adult dose of ceftriaxone .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] 2 . 3 Preparation for Use of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in DUPLEX ® Container This reconstituted solution is for intravenous use only .
Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use would result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
DUPLEX ® Container Storage • To avoid inadvertent activation , the DUPLEX ® Container should remain in the folded position until activation is intended .
Patient Labeling and Drug Powder / Diluent Inspection • Apply patient - specific label on foil side of container .
Use care to avoid activation .
Do not cover any portion of foil strip with patient label .
• Unlatch side tab and unfold DUPLEX ® Container ( see Diagram 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Visually inspect diluent chamber for particulate matter .
• Use only if container and seals are intact .
• To inspect the drug powder for foreign matter or discoloration , peel foil strip from drug chamber ( see Diagram 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Protect from light after removal of foil strip .
Note : If foil strip is removed , the container should be re - folded and the side tab latched until ready to activate .
The product must then be used within 7 days , but not beyond the labeled expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Reconstitution ( Activation ) • Do not use directly after storage by refrigeration , allow the product to equilibrate to room temperature before patient use .
• Unfold the DUPLEX ® container and point the set port in a downward direction .
Starting at the hanger tab end , fold the DUPLEX ® Container just below the diluent meniscus trapping all air above the fold .
To activate , squeeze the folded diluent chamber until the seal between the diluent and powder opens , releasing diluent into the drug powder chamber ( see Diagram 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Agitate the liquid - powder mixture until the drug powder is completely dissolved .
Note : Following reconstitution ( activation ) , product must be used within 24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7 days if stored under refrigeration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Administration • Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter .
• Point the set port in a downwards direction .
Starting at the hanger tab end , fold the DUPLEX ® Container just below the solution meniscus trapping all air above the fold .
Squeeze the folded DUPLEX ® Container until the seal between reconstituted drug solution and set port opens , releasing liquid to set port ( see Diagram 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Prior to attaching the IV set , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard container and solution as sterility may be compromised .
• Using aseptic technique , peel foil cover from the set port and attach sterile administration set ( see Diagram 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Refer to directions for use accompanying the administration set .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important Administration Instructions • Do not use in series connections .
• Do not introduce additives into the DUPLEX ® Container .
• Administer Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection intravenously over approximately 30 minutes .
• After the indicated stability time periods , unused portions of solutions should be discarded .
• Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides , and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone in admixtures .
When any of these drugs are to be administered concomitantly with ceftriaxone by intermittent intravenous infusion , it is recommended that they be given sequentially , with thorough flushing of the intravenous lines ( with 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection or 5 % dextrose in water ( D5W ) ) between the administrations .
• Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should not be physically mixed with or piggybacked into solutions containing other antimicrobial drugs due to possible incompatibility .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can also occur when Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same IV administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • There have been no reports of an interaction between ceftriaxone and oral calcium - containing products or interaction between intramuscular ceftriaxone and calcium - containing products ( IV or oral ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Dual - chamber , single - dose container : • 1 g ceftriaxone for injection and 50 mL of 3 . 74 % dextrose injection • 2 g ceftriaxone for injection and 50 mL of 2 . 22 % dextrose injection DUPLEX ® CONTAINER dual chamber , single - dose container consisting of : • 1 g ceftriaxone for injection and 50 mL of 3 . 74 % dextrose injection ( 3 ) • 2 g ceftriaxone for injection and 50 mL of 2 . 22 % dextrose injection ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Anaphylaxis to ceftriaxone or other cephalosporin class antibacterials , penicillins , or other beta - lactam antibacterials ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Anaphylaxis to Ceftriaxone or the Cephalosporin Class of Antibacterials , Penicillins , or Other Beta - lactam Antibacterials Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients who have a history of anaphylaxis to ceftriaxone or the cephalosporin class of antibacterials , penicillins , or other beta - lactam antibacterials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Include anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions .
Cross - hypersensitivity may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue the drug .
( 5 . 1 ) • Interaction with Calcium - containing Products : Precipitation can occur .
Do not administer simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions .
( 5 . 2 ) • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea : May range from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) • Neurological Adverse Reactions : Serious neurological adverse reactions have been reported .
If neurological adverse reactions occur , discontinue Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection therapy and institute appropriate supportive measures .
Make appropriate dosage adjustments in patients with severe renal impairment ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) .
• Hemolytic Anemia : Severe cases of hemolytic anemia , including fatalities in adults and children , have been reported .
If anemia is diagnosed , discontinue the drug until the etiology is determined .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions to Ceftriaxone , Cephalosporins , Penicillins , or Other Drugs Serious , occasionally fatal , hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported with ceftriaxone .
Before therapy with Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous immediate hypersensitivity reactions to ceftriaxone , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other drugs .
Exercise caution if this product is to be given to penicillin - sensitive patients because cross - hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibacterials has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection occurs , discontinue the drug .
Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require treatment with epinephrine and other emergency measures including oxygen , corticosteroids , intravenous fluids , intravenous antihistamines , pressor amines , and airway management , as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Interaction with Calcium - containing Products Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same IV administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions , including continuous calcium - containing infusions such as parenteral nutrition via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially of one another if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection or D5W .
In vitro studies using adult and neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood demonstrated that neonates have an increased risk of precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] 5 . 3 Neurological Adverse Reactions Serious neurological adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing surveillance with ceftriaxone use .
These reactions include encephalopathy ( disturbance of consciousness including somnolence , lethargy , and confusion ) , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Some cases occurred in patients with severe renal impairment who did not receive appropriate dosage adjustment .
However , in other cases , neurological adverse reactions occurred in patients receiving an appropriate dosage adjustment .
The neurological adverse reactions were reversible and resolved after discontinuation .
If neurological adverse reactions associated with Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection therapy occur , discontinue Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and institute appropriate supportive measures .
Make appropriate dosage adjustments in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridioides difficile - associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including ceftriaxone , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 5 Hemolytic Anemia An immune mediated hemolytic anemia has been observed in patients receiving cephalosporin class antibacterials including ceftriaxone .
Severe cases of hemolytic anemia , including fatalities , have been reported during treatment in both adults and children .
If a patient develops anemia while on Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection , the diagnosis of a cephalosporin associated anemia should be considered and Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection stopped until the etiology is determined .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity to Dextrose Products Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with administration of dextrose products .
These reactions have been reported in patients receiving high concentrations of dextrose ( i . e . 50 % dextrose ) 1 .
The reactions have also been reported when corn - derived dextrose solutions were administered to patients with or without a history of hypersensitivity to corn products2 .
5 . 7 Gallbladder Pseudolithiasis Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates in the gallbladder have been observed in patients receiving ceftriaxone .
These precipitates appear on sonography as an echo without acoustical shadowing suggesting sludge or as an echo with acoustical shadowing which may be misinterpreted as gallstones .
The probability of such precipitates appears to be greatest in pediatric patients .
Patients may be asymptomatic or may develop symptoms of gallbladder disease .
The condition appears to be reversible upon discontinuation of ceftriaxone and institution of conservative management .
Discontinue ceftriaxone in patients who develop signs and symptoms suggestive of gallbladder disease and / or the sonographic findings described above .
5 . 8 Urolithiasis and Post - Renal Acute Renal Failure Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates in the urinary tract have been observed in patients receiving ceftriaxone and may be detected as sonographic abnormalities .
The probability of such precipitates appears to be greatest in pediatric patients .
Patients may be asymptomatic or may develop symptoms of urolithiasis , and ureteral obstruction and post - renal acute renal failure .
The condition appears to be reversible upon discontinuation of ceftriaxone and institution of appropriate management .
Ensure adequate hydration in patients receiving ceftriaxone .
Discontinue ceftriaxone in patients who develop signs and symptoms suggestive of urolithiasis , oliguria or renal failure and / or the sonographic findings described above .
5 . 9 Patients with Hepatic and Renal Impairment In patients with both hepatic impairment and significant renal disease , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection dosage should not exceed 2 g daily .
5 . 10 Pancreatitis Cases of pancreatitis , possibly secondary to biliary obstruction , have been reported in patients treated with ceftriaxone sodium .
Most patients presented with risk factors for biliary stasis and biliary sludge ( preceding major therapy , severe illness , total parenteral nutrition ) .
A cofactor role of ceftriaxone - related biliary precipitation cannot be ruled out .
5 . 11 Development of Drug - resistant Bacteria Prescribing Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
As with other antibacterial drugs , use of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 12 Patients with Overt or Known Subclinical Diabetes Mellitus or Carbohydrate Intolerance As with other dextrose - containing solutions , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should be prescribed with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
5 . 13 Alterations in Prothrombin Time Alterations in prothrombin times have occurred in patients treated with ceftriaxone sodium .
Patients with impaired vitamin K synthesis or low vitamin K stores ( e . g . , chronic hepatic disease and malnutrition ) may require monitoring of prothrombin time during Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection treatment .
Vitamin K administration ( 10 mg weekly ) may be necessary if the prothrombin time is prolonged before or during therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to ceftriaxone are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] • Neurological Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hemolytic anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2 % of patients receiving ceftriaxone include diarrhea , eosinophilia , thrombocytosis , leukopenia , and elevations of SGOT and SGPT .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact B . Braun Medical Inc . at 1 - 800 - 854 - 6851 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following reactions occurred in less than or equal to 6 % of the patients : • Local reactions — pain , induration , tenderness , and phlebitis after IV administration .
• Hypersensitivity — rash , pruritus , fever or chills .
• Hematologic — eosinophilia , thrombocytosis , leucopenia , anemia , hemolytic anemia , neutropenia , lymphopenia , thrombocytopenia , and prolongation of the prothrombin time .
• Gastrointestinal — diarrhea , nausea or vomiting , and dysgeusia .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Hepatic — elevations of SGOT , SGPT , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin .
• Renal — elevations of the BUN , creatinine , and the presence of casts in the urine .
• Central nervous system — headache or dizziness .
• Genitourinary — moniliasis or vaginitis .
• Miscellaneous — diaphoresis and flushing .
• Ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates — Cases of fatal reactions with ceftriaxone - calcium precipitates in lung and kidneys in neonates have been described .
In some cases the infusion lines and times of administration of ceftriaxone and calcium - containing solutions differed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Other observed adverse reactions — abdominal pain , agranulocytosis , allergic pneumonitis , anaphylaxis , basophilia , biliary lithiasis , bronchospasm , colitis , dyspepsia , epistaxis , flatulence , gallbladder sludge , glycosuria , hematuria , jaundice , leukocytosis , lymphocytosis , monocytosis , nephrolithiasis , palpitations , a decrease in the prothrombin time , renal precipitations , seizures , and serum sickness .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of ceftriaxone .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to readily estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Gastrointestinal — stomatitis and glossitis .
• Genitourinary — oliguria , ureteric obstruction , post - renal acute renal failure .
• Hepatic — hepatitis .
• Dermatologic — severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome or Lyell ’ s syndrome / toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , exanthema , allergic dermatitis , urticaria , and edema .
• Immunologic — Anaphylaxis ( anaphylactic shock , transient leucopenia , neutropenia , agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia ) .
• Neurologic – Encephalopathy , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
6 . 3 Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibacterials : • Adverse Reactions : Allergic reactions , drug fever , serum sickness - like reaction , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , reversible hyperactivity , hypertonia , hepatic dysfunction including hepatitis , cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , and superinfection .
• Altered Laboratory Tests : Positive direct Coombs ’ test , false - positive test for urinary glucose , and elevated lactic acid dehydrogenase ( LDH ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides , and fluconazole are physically incompatible .
( 7 . 1 ) • Calcium - containing products : precipitation can occur .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Vancomycin , Amsacrine , Aminoglycosides , and Fluconazole Vancomycin , amsacrine , aminoglycosides , and fluconazole are physically incompatible with ceftriaxone in admixtures [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Calcium - containing Products Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is mixed with calcium - containing solutions in the same IV administration line .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing IV solutions .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and calcium - containing solutions may be administered sequentially .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic and renal impairment • Patients with both hepatic and renal impairment should not receive more than 2 grams of ceftriaxone per day ( 5 . 8 ) Pediatric Patients • Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX ® Container is designed to deliver a 1 g or 2 g dose of ceftriaxone .
To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the full adult dose of ceftriaxone .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published prospective cohort studies , case series , and case reports over several decades with cephalosporin use , including Ceftriaxone , in pregnant women have not established a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Ceftriaxone crosses the placenta .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed when ceftriaxone was administered to pregnant rats at doses up to approximately 2 . 8 times the clinical dose of 2 g / day ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published literature shows that ceftriaxone crosses the placenta .
While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from case - control studies and case reports over several decades have not identified an association with cephalosporin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Available studies have methodologic limitations , including small sample size , retrospective data collection , and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Reproductive studies have been performed in mice , rats , and primates at intravenous doses of 625 , 586 , and 84 mg / kg / day , respectively , without evidence of embryotoxicity , fetotoxicity , or teratogenicity .
These doses are approximately 1 . 5 , 2 . 8 , and 0 . 8 times the clinical dose of 2 g / day based on body surface area comparisons .
Ceftriaxone was tested in a Segment III ( pre - postnatal ) study in rats at intravenous doses of up to 586 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 . 8 times the clinical dose of 2 g / day based on body surface area comparison ) .
No adverse effects were noted on various reproductive parameters during gestation and lactation , including postnatal growth , functional behavior , and reproductive ability of the offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Data from published literature report that ceftriaxone is present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of Ceftriaxone on the breastfed child or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection or from the mother ’ s underlying condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX ® Container is designed to deliver a 1 g or 2 g dose of ceftriaxone .
To prevent unintentional overdose , this product should not be used in pediatric patients who require less than the full 1 g or 2 g adult dose of ceftriaxone .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of ceftriaxone sodium , 32 % were 60 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Ceftriaxone is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
The pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in geriatric patients compared to healthy adult subjects and dosage adjustments are not necessary for geriatric patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 grams per day , provided there is no severe renal and hepatic impairment .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE Ceftriaxone overdosage has been reported in patients with severe renal impairment .
Reactions have included neurological outcomes , including encephalopathy , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus .
In the event of overdosage , discontinue Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection therapy and provide general supportive treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and ( Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In the case of overdosage , drug concentration would not be reduced by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment of overdosage should be symptomatic .
11 DESCRIPTION Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , single - dose , packaged combination of Ceftriaxone Sodium and Dextrose Injection ( diluent ) in the DUPLEX ® sterile container .
The DUPLEX ® Container is a flexible dual chamber container .
The drug chamber is filled with ceftriaxone sodium , a sterile , semisynthetic , broad - spectrum cephalosporin antibacterial for intravenous administration .
Ceftriaxone sodium is ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - Amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) glyoxylamido ] - 8 - oxo - 3 - [ [ ( 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - as - triazin - 3 - yl ) thio ] methyl ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid , 72 - ( Z ) - ( O - methyloxime ) , disodium salt , sesquaterhydrate .
The chemical formula of ceftriaxone sodium is C18H16N8Na2O7S3 • 3 . 5H2O .
It has a calculated molecular weight of 661 . 60 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ceftriaxone sodium is supplied as a dry powder form equivalent to either 1 g or 2 g of ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone sodium is a white to yellowish - orange crystalline powder which is readily soluble in water , sparingly soluble in methanol and very slightly soluble in ethanol .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution is approximately 6 . 7 .
The color of ceftriaxone sodium solutions ranges from light yellow to amber , depending on the length of storage and concentration .
Ceftriaxone sodium contains approximately 83 mg ( 3 . 6 mEq ) of sodium per gram of ceftriaxone activity .
The diluent chamber contains Dextrose Injection .
The concentration of Hydrous Dextrose in Water for Injection USP has been adjusted to render the reconstituted drug product iso - osmotic .
Dextrose USP has been added to adjust osmolality ( approximately 1 . 87 g and 1 . 11 g to 1 g and 2 g dosages , respectively ) .
Dextrose Injection is sterile , nonpyrogenic , and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
Hydrous Dextrose USP has the following structural ( molecular ) formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of Hydrous Dextrose USP is 198 . 17 .
After removing the peelable foil strip , activating the seals , and thoroughly mixing , the reconstituted drug product is intended for single intravenous use .
When reconstituted , the approximate osmolality for the reconstituted solution for Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is 290 mOsmol / kg .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The DUPLEX ® dual chamber container is made from a specially formulated material .
The product ( diluent and drug ) contact layer is a mixture of thermoplastic rubber and a polypropylene ethylene copolymer that contains no plasticizers .
The safety of the container system is supported by USP biological evaluation procedures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ceftriaxone is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Average plasma concentrations of ceftriaxone following a single 30 - minute intravenous ( IV ) infusion of a 0 . 5 , 1 or 2 g dose in healthy subjects are presented in Table 2 .
Multiple IV doses ranging from 0 . 5 to 2 g at 12 - to 24 - hour intervals resulted in 15 % to 36 % accumulation of ceftriaxone above single - dose values .
TABLE 2 : Ceftriaxone Plasma Concentrations After Single - Dose Administration Dose / Route Average Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 0 . 5 hr 1 hr 2 hr 4 hr 6 hr 8 hr 12 hr 16 hr 24 hr 0 . 5 g IV [ 1 ] 82 59 48 37 29 23 15 10 5 1 g IV null 151 111 88 67 53 43 28 18 9 2 g IV null 257 192 154 117 89 74 46 31 15 [ 1 ] IV doses were infused at a constant rate over 30 minutes .
Over a 0 . 15 to 3 g dose range in healthy adult subjects , the mean elimination half - life ranged from 5 . 8 to 8 . 7 hours , plasma clearance ranged from 0 . 58 to 1 . 45 L / hour , and renal clearance ranged from 0 . 32 to 0 . 73 L / hour .
Distribution Ceftriaxone is reversibly bound to human plasma proteins and the binding of ceftriaxone decreases with increasing concentration from a value of 95 % at plasma concentrations less than 25 mcg / mL to 85 % at plasma concentration of 300 mcg / mL .
Over a 0 . 15 to 3 g dose range in healthy adult subjects , the apparent volume of distribution ranged from 5 . 8 to 13 . 5 L . Ceftriaxone crosses the blood placenta barrier .
Ceftriaxone penetrates the inflamed meninges of infants and pediatric patients .
The average values of maximum plasma concentration , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) concentrations , elimination half - life , plasma clearance and volume of distribution after a 50 mg / kg IV dose and after a 75 mg / kg IV dose in pediatric patients suffering from bacterial meningitis are shown in Table 3 .
TABLE 3 : Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in Pediatric Patients With Meningitis 50 mg / kg IV 75 mg / kg IV Maximum Plasma Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 216 275 Elimination Half - life ( hr ) 4 . 6 4 . 3 Plasma Clearance ( mL / hr / kg ) 49 60 Volume of Distribution ( mL / kg ) 338 373 CSF Concentration _ inflamed meninges ( mcg / mL ) 5 . 6 6 . 4 Range ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 3 – 18 . 5 1 . 3 – 44 Time after dose ( hr ) 3 . 7 ( ± 1 . 6 ) 3 . 3 ( ± 1 . 4 ) After a 1 g IV dose , average concentrations of ceftriaxone , determined from 1 to 3 hours after dosing , were 581 mcg / mL in the gallbladder bile , 788 mcg / mL in the common duct bile , 898 mcg / mL in the cystic duct bile , and 78 . 2 mcg / g in the gallbladder wall compared to a corresponding concentration of 62 . 1 mcg / mL in plasma .
Excretion Ceftriaxone concentrations in urine are shown in Table 4 .
TABLE 4 : Urinary Concentrations of Ceftriaxone After Single - Dose Administration Dose / Route Average Urinary Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) 0 - 2 hr 2 - 4 hr 4 - 8 hr 8 - 12 hr 12 - 24 hr 24 - 48 hr 0 . 5 g IV 526 366 142 87 70 15 1 g IV 995 855 293 147 132 32 2 g IV 2692 1976 757 274 198 40 Thirty - three percent to 67 % of a ceftriaxone dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug and the remainder was secreted in the bile and ultimately found in the feces as microbiologically inactive compounds .
The elimination of ceftriaxone is not altered by probenecid .
Special Populations Average pharmacokinetic parameters of ceftriaxone in healthy subjects , elderly subjects , subjects with renal impairment , and subjects with liver disease are summarized in Table 5 .
Compared to healthy adult subjects , the pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone were only minimally altered in elderly subjects and in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; therefore , dosage adjustments are not necessary for these patients with ceftriaxone dosages up to 2 g per day .
Ceftriaxone was not removed to any significant extent from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In 6 of 26 dialysis patients , the elimination rate of ceftriaxone was markedly reduced , suggesting that plasma concentrations of ceftriaxone should be monitored in these patients to determine if dosage adjustments are necessary .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] TABLE 5 : Average Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ceftriaxone in Humans Subject Group Elimination Half - Life ( hr ) Plasma Clearance ( L / hr ) Volume of Distribution ( L ) Healthy Subjects [ 1 ] 5 . 8 – 8 . 7 0 . 58 – 1 . 45 5 . 8 – 13 . 5 Elderly Subjects ( mean age , 70 . 5 yr ) 8 . 9 0 . 83 10 . 7 Patients with Renal Impairment Hemodialysis Patients ( 0 - 5 mL / min ) [ 2 ] 14 . 7 0 . 65 13 . 7 Severe ( 5 - 15 mL / min ) 15 . 7 0 . 56 12 . 5 Moderate ( 16 - 30 mL / min ) 11 . 4 0 . 72 11 . 8 Mild ( 31 - 60 mL / min ) 12 . 4 0 . 70 13 . 3 Patients With Liver Disease 8 . 8 1 . 1 13 . 6 [ 1 ] Dose ranged from 0 . 15 to 3 g ; [ 2 ] Creatinine clearance .
Drug Interactions Interaction with Calcium : Two in vitro studies , one using adult plasma and the other neonatal plasma from umbilical cord blood have been carried out to assess interaction of ceftriaxone and calcium .
Ceftriaxone concentrations up to 1 mM ( in excess of concentrations achieved in vivo following administration of 2 grams ceftriaxone infused over 30 minutes ) were used in combination with calcium concentrations up to 12 mM ( 48 mg / dL ) .
Recovery of ceftriaxone from plasma was reduced with calcium concentrations of 6 mM ( 24 mg / dL ) or higher in adult plasma or 4 mM ( 16 mg / dL ) or higher in neonatal plasma .
This may be reflective of ceftriaxone - calcium precipitation .
12 . 4 Microbiology To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 ) Mechanism of Action Ceftriaxone is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Ceftriaxone has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance Resistance to ceftriaxone is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In an in vitro study antagonistic effects have been observed with the combination of chloramphenicol and ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : • Gram - negative bacteria • Acinetobacter calcoaceticus • Enterobacter aerogenes • Enterobacter cloacae • Escherichia coli • Haemophilus influenzae • Haemophilus parainfluenzae • Klebsiella oxytoca • Klebsiella pneumoniae • Moraxella catarrhalis • Morganella morganii • Neisseria gonorrhoeae • Neisseria meningitidis • Proteus mirabilis • Proteus vulgaris • Pseudomonas aeruginosa • Serratia marcescens • Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus • Staphylococcus epidermidis • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes • Viridans group streptococci • Anaerobic bacteria • Bacteroides fragilis • Clostridium species • Peptostreptococcus species The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following microorganisms exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for ceftriaxone .
However , the efficacy of ceftriaxone in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
• Gram - negative bacteria • Citrobacter diversus • Citrobacter freundii • Providencia species ( including Providencia rettgeri ) • Salmonella species ( including Salmonella typhi ) • Shigella species • Gram - positive bacteria • Streptococcus agalactiae • Anaerobic bacteria • Porphyromonas ( Bacteroides ) melaninogenicus • Prevotella ( Bacteroides ) bivius Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria , and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : http : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Considering the maximum duration of treatment and the class of the compound , carcinogenicity studies with ceftriaxone in animals have not been performed .
The maximum duration of animal toxicity studies was 6 months .
Mutagenesis Genetic toxicology tests included the Ames test , a micronucleus test and a test for chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocytes cultured in vitro with ceftriaxone .
Ceftriaxone showed no potential for genotoxic activity in these studies .
Impairment of Fertility Ceftriaxone produced no impairment of fertility when given intravenously to rats at daily doses up to 586 mg / kg / day , approximately 2 . 8 times ( mg / m2 comparison ) the recommended clinical dose of 2 g / day .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Animal Pharmacology Concretions consisting of the precipitated calcium salt of ceftriaxone have been found in the gallbladder bile of dogs and baboons treated with ceftriaxone .
These appeared as a gritty sediment in dogs that received 100 mg / kg / day for 4 weeks .
A similar phenomenon has been observed in baboons but only after a protracted dosing period ( 6 months ) at higher dose levels ( 335 mg / kg / day or more ) .
15 REFERENCES • Czarny D , Prichard PJ , Fennessy M , Lewis S . Anaphylactoid reaction to 50 % solution of dextrose .
Med J Aust 1980 ; 2 : 255 - 258 .
• Guharoy , SR , Barajas M . Probably Anaphylactic Reaction to Corn - Derived Dextrose Solution .
Vet Hum Toxicol 1991 ; 33 : 609 - 610 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection in the DUPLEX ® Container is a flexible dual chamber container supplied in two concentrations .
After reconstitution , the concentrations are equivalent to 1 g and 2 g ceftriaxone .
The diluent chamber contains approximately 50 mL of Dextrose Injection .
Dextrose Injection has been adjusted to 3 . 74 % and 2 . 22 % for the 1 g and 2 g doses , respectively , such that the reconstituted solution is iso - osmotic .
Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in the DUPLEX ® Container packaged 24 single - dose units per case .
NDC REF Dose Volume 0264 - 3153 - 11 3153 - 11 1 g 50 mL 0264 - 3155 - 11 3155 - 11 2 g 50 mL Store the unactivated unit at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Do not freeze .
Precautions As with other cephalosporins , reconstituted Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection tends to darken depending on storage conditions , within the stated recommendations .
However , product potency is not adversely affected .
Use only if prepared solution is clear and free from particulate matter .
Do not use in series connection .
Do not introduce additives into the DUPLEX ® container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Serious Allergic Reactions Patients should be advised that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment and discontinuation of ceftriaxone .
Patients should report to their health care provider any previous allergic reactions to ceftriaxone , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other similar antibacterials .
Neurological Adverse Reactions Advise patients that neurological adverse reactions could occur with Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection use .
Instruct patients or their caregivers to inform their healthcare provider at once of any neurological signs and symptoms , including encephalopathy ( disturbance of consciousness including somnolence , lethargy , and confusion ) , seizures , myoclonus , and non - convulsive status epilepticus , for immediate treatment , or discontinuation of Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Diarrhea Patients should be advised that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials , which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact a physician as soon as possible .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Ceftriaxone for Injection and Dextrose Injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
DUPLEX is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
ATCC is a registered trademark of the American Type Culture Collection .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Prepared in USA .
API from USA and Italy .
Y36 - 003 - 050 LD - 104 - 7 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CefTRIaxONE for Injection and Dextrose Injection 1 g REF 3153 - 11 NDC 0264 - 3153 - 11 DUPLEX ® CONTAINER 50 mL Use only after mixing contents of both chambers .
For IV Use Only Iso - osmotic Single - Dose Sterile / Nonpyrogenic Reconstitution : Hold container with set port in a downward direction and fold the diluent chamber just below the solution meniscus .
To activate seal , squeeze folded diluent chamber until seal between diluent and drug chamber opens , releasing diluent into drug chamber .
Agitate the reconstituted solution until the drug powder is completely dissolved .
Fold the container a second time and squeeze until seal between drug chamber and set port opens .
After reconstitution each 50 mL single dose unit contains : Ceftriaxone for Injection ( equivalent to 1 g ceftriaxone ) with approx .
1 . 87 g Hydrous Dextrose USP in Water for Injection USP Approximate osmolality : 290 mOsmol / kg Prior to Reconstitution : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Use only if container and seals are intact .
Do not peel foil strip until ready for use .
After foil strip removal , product must be used within 7 days , but not beyond the labeled expiration date .
Protect from light after removal of foil strip .
After Reconstitution : Use only if prepared solution is clear and free from particulate matter .
Use within 24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7   days if stored under refrigeration .
Do not use in a series connection .
Do not introduce additives into this container .
Prior to administration check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard container and solution as sterility may be impaired .
Do not freeze .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 Rx only Prepared in USA .
API from USA and Italy .
Y37 - 002 - 569 LD - 206 - 5 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] PEEL HERE Drug Chamber Discard unit if foil strip is damaged .
Peel foil strip only when ready for use .
Visually inspect drug prior to reconstitution .
See package insert for complete directions for reconstitution and administration .
LD - 336 - 1 X27 - 001 - 485 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CefTRIaxONE for Injection and Dextrose Injection 2 g REF 3155 - 11 NDC 0264 - 3155 - 11 DUPLEX ® CONTAINER 50 mL Use only after mixing contents of both chambers .
For IV Use Only Iso - osmotic Single - Dose Sterile / Nonpyrogenic Reconstitution : Hold container with set port in a downward direction and fold the diluent chamber just below the solution meniscus .
To activate seal , squeeze folded diluent chamber until seal between diluent and drug chamber opens , releasing diluent into drug chamber .
Agitate the reconstituted solution until the drug powder is completely dissolved .
Fold the container a second time and squeeze until seal between drug chamber and set port opens .
After reconstitution each 50 mL single dose unit contains : Ceftriaxone for Injection ( equivalent to 2 g ceftriaxone ) with approx .
1 . 11 g Hydrous Dextrose USP in Water for Injection USP Approximate osmolality : 290 mOsmol / kg Prior to Reconstitution : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Use only if container and seals are intact .
Do not peel foil strip until ready for use .
After foil strip removal , product must be used within 7 days , but not beyond the labeled expiration date .
Protect from light after removal of foil strip .
After Reconstitution : Use only if prepared solution is clear and free from particulate matter .
Use within 24 hours if stored at room temperature or within 7   days if stored under refrigeration .
Do not use in a series connection .
Do not introduce additives into this container .
Prior to administration check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard container and solution as sterility may be impaired .
Do not freeze .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 Rx only Prepared in USA .
API from USA and Italy .
Y37 - 002 - 570 LD - 207 - 5 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] PEEL HERE Drug Chamber Discard unit if foil strip is damaged .
Peel foil strip only when ready for use .
Visually inspect drug prior to reconstitution .
See package insert for complete directions for reconstitution and administration .
LD - 336 - 1 X27 - 001 - 485 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
