Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 % purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rish of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only • Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approaching a source of heat or flame , or before smoking Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not apply in windy conditiona • use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation • reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by S . C . Johnson , distributor of Sun Bum ® Premium Moisturizing Sunscreen Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , LLC One Swan Drive Smyrna , TN 37167 Principle Display Panel Wild Tropics Sunscreen Spray BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Pthalate free Hypoallergenic Dermatologist tested Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) Fresh Banana Scent Compare to Sun bum Premium Moisturizing Sunscreen Spray * SPF 30 NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
