FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Chemically , it is 9 - Fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % contains : 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in a hydrophilic emollient cream consisting of cetomacrogol 1000 , cetostearyl alcohol , mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , white petrolatum , chlorocresol as preservative , and phosphoric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones , secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Sixty - three pediatric patients ages 1 to 12 years , with atopic dermatitis , were enrolled in an open - label , hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis safety study .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 40 % ( range 35 % to 90 % ) .
In 10 of 43 ( 23 % ) evaluable patients , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a ≤ 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol ≤ 18 mcg / dL and / or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate cream indicate that it is in the medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate cream is a medium - potency corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate cream is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteriod - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
In an open - label pediatric study of 43 evaluable patients , of the 10 subjects who showed evidence of suppression , 2 subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % , and 1 of the 2 ( 50 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with betamethasone dipropionate cream without first talking to your physician .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : • Urinary free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It as positive in the in - vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in - vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 0 . 5 and 4 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison , respectively .
Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 0 . 03 fold the estimated maximum human dose based on a mg / m2 comparison .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Use of betamethasone dipropionate cream , 0 . 05 % , in pediatric patients 12 years of age and younger is not recommended .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
In an open - label study , 10 of 43 ( 23 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 2 years to 12 years old ) using betamethasone dipropionate cream for treatment of atopic dermatitis for 2 to 3 weeks demonstrated HPA axis suppression .
The proportion of patients with adrenal suppression in this study was progressively greater , the younger the age group .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics . )
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
The study described above supports this premise , as suppression in 9 to 12 year olds , and 2 to 5 year olds was 14 % , 23 % , and 30 % , respectively .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently when betamethasone dipropionate cream USP , 0 . 05 % is used as recommended in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
Adverse reactions reported to be possibly or probably related to treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream during a pedatric clinical study include signs of skin atrophy ( brusing , shininess ) .
Skin atrophy occurred in 3 of 63 ( 5 % ) patients , a 3 - year old , a 5 - year old , and a 7 - year old .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream USP , 0 . 05 % to the affected skin areas once daily .
In some cases , twice - daily dosage may be necessary .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream USP , 0 . 05 % should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 15 gram ( NDC 51672 - 1274 - 1 ) and 45 gram ( NDC 51672 - 1274 - 6 ) tubes .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : June , 2016 PK - 1193 - 5 0616 - 5 74 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton NDC 51672 - 1274 - 1 15 g Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( potency expressed as betamethasone ) FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
