Active ingredients : Minoxidil 2 . 0 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment Use to regrow hair on the scalp Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton , because this product may not work for you • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • your hair loss is associated with childbirth • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medications on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap waler .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
You may need to use this product 2 times a day at least 4 months before you see results • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other Information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • in clinical research in mostly white women age 18 - 45 years with mild to moderate degrees of hair loss , the following response to Minoxidil Topical Solution 2 % was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using women ' s Minoxidil Topical Solution 2 % for 8 months ; 19 % had moderate regrowth ; 40 % had minimal regrowth .
This compares with 7 % of women reporting hair regrowth after using the placebo , the liquid without Minoxidil in it , for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth , 33 % had minimal regrowth ) • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at controlled room temperature 200 to 250 C ( 680 to 770 F ) .
Inactive Ingredients : alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water .
Questions or comments ?
877 - 279 - 9024 Visit website at www . follinique . com NDC 70788 - 579 - 01 Follinique Women ' s 2 % Minoxidil Topical Solution USP Hair Regrowth Treatment Reactivates Hair Follicles to Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Unscented Topical Solution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
