Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % contains the synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent naftifine hydrochloride .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is for topical use only .
CHEMICAL NAME : ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
Naftifine hydrochloride has an empirical formula of C21H21N ∙ HCl and a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] naftifine hydrochloride Contains Active Ingredient Naftifine hydrochloride 1 % Inactive Ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , and stearyl alcohol .
Hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naftifine hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Naftifine hydrochloride has been shown to exhibit fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of organisms , including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , and Microsporum gypseum ; and fungistatic activity against Candida species , including Candida albicans .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % has only been shown to be clinically effective against the disease entities listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Following a single topical application of 1 % naftifine cream to the skin of healthy subjects , systemic absorption of naftifine was approximately 6 % of the applied dose .
Naftifine and / or its metabolites are excreted via the urine and feces with a half - life of approximately two to three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is for external use only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Information for patients The patient should be told to : • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Keep Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % away from the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a 2 - year dermal carcinogenicity study , naftifine hydrochloride cream was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 1 % , 2 % and 3 % ( 10 mg / kg / day , 20 mg / kg / day , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 30 mg / kg / day [ 3 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on mg / m2 comparison ] .
Naftifine hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Oral administration of naftifine hydrochloride to rats , throughout mating , gestation , parturition and lactation , demonstrated no effects on growth , fertility or reproduction , at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 12 times MRHD based on mg / m2 comparison ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits ( via oral administration ) at doses 150 times or more than the topical human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naftifine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % , the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning / stinging ( 6 % ) , dryness ( 3 % ) , erythema ( 2 % ) , itching ( 2 % ) , local irritation ( 2 % ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A sufficient quantity of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas once a day .
The hands should be washed after application .
If no clinical improvement is seen after four weeks of treatment with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % , the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % is supplied in the following sizes : 15 g - NDC 51672 - 1362 - 1 ( tube ) 30 g - NDC 51672 - 1362 - 2 ( tube ) 60 g - NDC 51672 - 1362 - 3 ( tube ) 90 g - NDC 51672 - 1362 - 8 ( tube ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 TARO is a registered trademark of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Revised : May 2018 PK - 7357 - 2 10 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 g Tube Carton NDC 51672 - 1362 - 8 90 g Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only TARO Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
