Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Isostearyl isostearate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Tocopheryl acetate , Rosa canina fruit oil , Cetearyl alcohol , Dimethiconol , Sodium PCA , Methyparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Tetrasodium EDTA , Magnesium PCA , T - butyl alcohol , Zinc PCA , Biosaccharide gum - 1 , Potassium hydroxide , Manganese PCA , Silica , Potassium sorbate .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 www . boots . com Description No7 Beautiful Skin Give your skin a boost of radiance and hydration with this No7 Beautiful Skin regime collection .
No7 Beautiful Skin Micellar Cleansing Water Normal / Dry A light and refreshing cleansing water powered by Micellar technology .
Micellar particles work to capture make - up and impurities , drawing them away from the skin .
Removes even waterproof and long lasting make - up .
No7 Beautiful Skin Radiance Exfoliator Norma / Dry With a special blend of exfoliating particles , this gentle facial exfoliator helps remove dead skin cellls and refines pores , leaving skin soft , smooth and glowing with health .
No7 Beautiful Skin Day Cream NormalDry Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 A nourishing moisture cream to energise and provide all day hydration leaving skin looking and feeling healthy and radiant .
The protective power of SPF 15 and broad spectrum sunscreens give you advanced protection for the future and help keep you looking as young as possible .
No7 Beautiful Skin Night Cream Normal / Dry A nourishing moisture cream to energise and promote optimum hydration while you sleep .
Designed to work in harmony with your skin , replacing lost moisture and leaving you with healthy looking radiant skin .
No7 Beautiful Skin Hydration Mask Dry / Very Dry Treta your skin to a little luxury with this delicately soft hydration mask to leave your skin feeling beautifully soft , smooth and revitalized carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
