1 : 1000 Rx only DESCRIPTION Epinephrine Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution intended for subcutaneous or intramuscular injection .
When diluted , it may also be administered intracardially or intravenously .
Each mL contains : Epinephrine 1 mg ( as the Hydrochloride ) , Water for Injection q . s . Sodium Chloride added for isotonicity , Chlorobutanol 0 . 5 % ( a chloroform derivative ) as a preservative and Sodium Metabisulfite not more than 0 . 15 % as an antioxidant .
Epinephrine is the active principle of the adrenal medulla , chemically described as ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) methyl ) ] benzyl alcohol , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Epinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug .
It activates an adrenergic receptive mechanism on effector cells and imitates all actions of the sympathetic nervous system except those on the arteries of the face and sweat glands .
Epinephrine acts on both alpha and beta receptors and is the most potent alpha receptor activator .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE In general , the most common uses of epinephrine are to relieve respiratory distress due to bronchospasm , to provide rapid relief of hypersensitivity reactions to drugs and other allergens , and to prolong the action of infiltration anesthetics .
Its cardiac effects may be of use in restoring cardiac rhythm in cardiac arrest due to various causes , but it is not used in cardiac failure or in hemorrhagic , traumatic , or cardiogenic shock .
Epinephrine is used as a hemostatic agent .
It is also used in treating mucosal congestion of hay fever , rhinitis and acute sinusitis ; to relieve bronchial asthmatic paroxysms ; in syncope due to complete heart block or carotid sinus hypersensitivity ; for symptomatic relief of serum sickness , urticaria , angioneurotic edema ; for resuscitation in cardiac arrest following anesthetic accidents ; in simple ( open angle ) glaucoma ; for relaxation of uterine musculature and to inhibit uterine contractions .
Epinephrine injection can be utilized to prolong the action of local anesthetics ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Epinephrine is contraindicated in narrow angle ( congestive ) glaucoma , shock , during general anesthesia with halogenated hydrocarbons or cyclopropane and in individuals with organic brain damage .
Epinephrine is also contraindicated with local anesthesia of certain areas , e . g . , fingers , toes , because of the danger of vasoconstriction producing sloughing of tissue ; in labor because it may delay the second stage ; in cardiac dilatation and coronary insufficiency .
WARNINGS Administer with caution to elderly people ; to those with cardiovascular disease , hypertension , diabetes , or hyperthyroidism ; in psychoneurotic individuals ; and in pregnancy .
Patients with long - standing bronchial asthma and emphysema who have developed degenerative heart disease should be administered the drug with extreme caution .
Overdosage or inadvertent intravenous injection of epinephrine may cause cerebrovascular hemorrhage resulting from the sharp rise in blood pressure .
Fatalities may also result from pulmonary edema because of the peripheral constriction and cardiac stimulation produced .
Rapidly acting vasodilators , such as nitrites , or alpha blocking agents may counteract the marked pressor effects of epinephrine .
Epinephrine is the preferred treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations even though this product contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may in other products cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms or life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible persons .
The alternative to using epinephrine in a life - threatening situation may not be satisfactory .
The presence of a sulfite in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations .
PRECAUTIONS General Epinephrine injection should be protected from exposure to light .
Do not remove vial from carton until ready to use .
The solution should not be used if it is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate .
Epinephrine is readily destroyed by alkalies and oxidizing agents .
In the latter category are oxygen , chlorine , bromine , iodine , permanganates , chromates , nitrites , and salts of easily reducible metals , especially iron .
Drug Interactions Use of epinephrine with excessive doses of digitalis , mercurial diuretics , or other drugs that sensitize the heart to arrhythmias is not recommended .
Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present .
The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants ; certain antihistamines , e . g . , diphenhydramine , tripelennamine , d - chlorpheniramine , and sodium l - thyroxine .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Epinephrine has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses about 25 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Epinephrine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient and minor side effects of anxiety , headache , fear , and palpitations often occur with therapeutic doses , especially in hyperthyroid individuals .
Repeated local injections can result in necrosis at sites of injection from vascular constriction .
“ Epinephrine - fastness ” can occur with prolonged use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Subcutaneously or intramuscularly − 0 . 2 to 1 mL ( mg ) .
Start with a small dose and increase if required .
Note : The subcutaneous is the preferred route of administration .
If given intramuscularly , injection into the buttocks should be avoided .
For bronchial asthma and certain allergic manifestations , e . g . , angioedema , urticaria , serum sickness , anaphylactic shock , use epinephrine subcutaneously .
For bronchial asthma in pediatric patients , administer 0 . 01 mg / kg or 0 . 3 mg / m2 to a maximum of 0 . 5 mg subcutaneously , repeated every four hours if required .
For cardiac resuscitation − A dose of 0 . 5 mL ( 0 . 5 mg ) diluted to 10 mL with sodium chloride injection can be administered intravenously or intracardially to restore myocardial contractility .
External cardiac massage should follow intracardial administration to permit the drug to enter coronary circulation .
The drug should be used secondarily to unsuccessful attempts with physical or electromechanical methods .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from light .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Epinephrine Injection , USP 1 : 1000 ( 1 mg / mL ) NDC 44827 - 301 - 02 30 mL Multiple Dose Vial Rev 02 / 14 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
