Active ingredient ..........................
Purpose Enter section text here Uses temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy , poison oak , or poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external genital and anal itching other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • by putting this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Ask a doctor before use if you have • a vaginal discharge • rectal bleeding • diaper rash When using this product consult a doctor before exceeding recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition gets worse • conditions persists for more than 7 days • condition clears up and occurs again within a few days .
Do not begin to use any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
For external anal itching : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a . soft cloth before application of this Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • store at room temperature • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date purified water / aqua / eau ; glyceryl stearate and peg - 100 stearate ; c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate ; isopropyl myristate ; cetearyl alcohol and ceteareth - 20 ; magnesium aluminum silicate ; aloe barbadensis leaf juice ; citric acid ; polysorbate 80 ; sodium lauryl sulfate ; propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methlyparaben , propylparaben Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 Placeholder text [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
