L ' BEL RENOVANCE JOUR Daytime Face Cream SPF 15 All Skin Types Active Ingredients OCTINOXATE ( 7 . 5 % ) OCTOCRYLENE ( 5 . 0 % ) OXYBENZONE ( 3 . 0 % ) Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings • Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
• For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 years • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other Information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , cyclohexasiloxane , soy protein phthalate , c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , glycerin , pisum sativum extract ( pisum sativum ( pea ) extract ) , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cyclopentasiloxane , cetyl alcohol , cetearyl alcohol , isononyl isononanoate , isopropyl myristate , sorbitan stearate , mannitol , glyceryl stearate , potassium cetyl phosphate , dimethicone , propylene glycol , peg - 75 stearate , sodium pca , methylparaben , dimethicone crosspolymer , dimethicone / vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer , phenoxyethanol , acrylates / c10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , triethanolamine , ceteareth - 20 , panthenol , propylparaben , dimethiconol , ceteth - 20 , steareth - 20 , chlorphenesin , ci 77891 ( titanium dioxide ) , parfum ( fragrance ) , teprenone , butylene glycol , cyclodextrin , tetrasodium edta , peg - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , polysorbate 80 , ppg - 26 - buteth - 26 , serine , urea , hydrolyzed algin , hedera helix extract ( hedera helix ( ivy ) leaf / stem extract ) , faex extract ( yeast extract ) , magnesium pca , chlorella vulgaris extract , retinyl palmitate , maris aqua ( sea water ) , tocopheryl acetate , algin , zinc pca , bioflavonoids , allantoin , ascorbyl palmitate , saccharomyces / magnesium ferment , acacia senegal gum , disodium succinate , saccharomyces / iron ferment , manganese pca , saccharomyces / copper ferment , saccharomyces / calcium ferment , saccharomyces / silicon ferment , saccharomyces / zinc ferment .
Purpose Sunscreen EXPERT ROUTINE L ' BEL L ' Bel presents Expert Routine , a skin care program with two steps that work together for enhanced results : 1 .
Cleanse the skin according to its needs .
2 .
Nourish according to the age .
RENOVANCE JOUR intensive , refining , fortifying and renewing daytime face cream SPF 15 After the age of 50 , your skin reflects certain changes brought about by the passage of time : increased dullness and loss of density and luminosity The alternative facial cosmetic treatment Renovance Jour with Solar Protection Factor ( SPF ) 15 , combines the innovations and scientific advances in cosmetics with the mineral supplements that mature skin needs .
An effective synergy for a unique cosmetic treatment that deeply moisturizes the skin and helps fortify and renew the look of your face .
An effective cosmetic treatment that supports the actions of its ingredients : • Renovage Complex : helps improve the skin ’ s appearance of firmness , elasticity and tone that has been lost over time .
• Vitaminerale Boost : complex , rich in vitamins and minerals , which give the skin a fortifying and energizing effect .
• Hydra Chronological System : innovative technology , patented in France , that gives skin progressive , long - lasting and focused hydration where it needs it most .
Its formula also contains soy proteins that give the skin an immediate lift appearance .
USES : Helps prevent sunburn .
WARNINGS : Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : • Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION : • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• HYPOALLERGENIC PRODUCT • CLINICALLY TESTED L ' BEL RENOVANCE JOUR intensive refining , fortifying and renewing daytime face cream SPF 15 all skin types 50 g e ( 1 . 7 oz . )
Renovance Jour with Solar Protection Factor ( SPF ) 15 , combines the innovations and scientific advances in cosmetics with the mineral supplements that mature skin needs .
An effective synergy for unique cosmetic treatment that deeply moisturizes the skin and helps fortify and renew the look of your face .
L ' BEL RENOVANCE JOUR Daytime Face Cream SPF 15 All Skin Types [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
