1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albendazole tablets are an anthelmintic drug indicated for : • Treatment of parenchymal neurocysticercosis due to active lesions caused by larval forms of the pork tapeworm , Taenia solium .
( 1 . 1 ) • Treatment of cystic hydatid disease of the liver , lung , and peritoneum , caused by the larval form of the dog tapeworm , Echinococcus granulosus .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Neurocysticercosis Albendazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of parenchymal neurocysticercosis due to active lesions caused by larval forms of the pork tapeworm , Taenia solium .
1 . 2 Hydatid Disease Albendazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of cystic hydatid disease of the liver , lung , and peritoneum , caused by the larval form of the dog tapeworm , Echinococcus granulosus .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients weighing 60 kg or greater , 400 mg twice daily ; less than 60 kg , 15 mg / kg / day in divided doses twice daily ( maximum total daily dose 800 mg ) .
Albendazole tablets should be taken with food .
( 2 ) • Hydatid disease : 28 - day cycle followed by 14 - day albendazole - free interval for a total of 3 cycles .
( 2 ) • Neurocysticercosis : 8 to 30 days .
( 2 ) See additional important information in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Dosing of albendazole will vary depending upon the indication .
Albendazole tablets may be crushed or chewed and swallowed with a drink of water .
Albendazole tablets should be taken with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 : Albendazole DosageIndication Patient Weight Dose Duration Hydatid Disease 60 kg or greater 400 mg twice daily , with meals 28 - day cycle followed by a 14 - day albendazole - free interval , for a total of 3 cycles Less than 60 kg 15 mg / kg / day given in divided doses twice daily with meals ( maximum total daily dose 800 mg ) Neurocysticercosis 60 kg or greater 400 mg twice daily , with meals 8 to 30 days Less than 60 kg 15 mg / kg / day given in divided doses twice daily with meals ( maximum total daily dose 800 mg ) 2 . 2 Concomitant Medication to Avoid Adverse Reactions Patients being treated for neurocysticercosis should receive appropriate steroid and anticonvulsant therapy as required .
Oral or intravenous corticosteroids should be considered to prevent cerebral hypertensive episodes during the first week of treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Monitoring for Safety Before and During Treatment • Monitor blood counts at the beginning of each 28 - day cycle of therapy , and every 2 weeks while on therapy with albendazole in all patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Monitor liver enzymes ( transaminases ) at the beginning of each 28 - day cycle of therapy , and at least every 2 weeks during treatment with albendazole in all patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Obtain a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Tablet : 200 mg • Tablet : 200 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Albendazole is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the benzimidazole class of compounds or any components of albendazole .
Patients with known hypersensitivity to the benzimidazole class of compounds or any components of albendazole .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Bone Marrow Suppression : Fatalities have been reported due to bone marrow suppression ; monitor blood counts in all patients at the beginning of each 28 - day cycle of therapy , and every 2 weeks while on therapy .
Discontinue albendazole if clinically significant changes in blood counts occur .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : May cause fetal harm .
Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to therapy .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use an effective method of contraception .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Risk of Neurologic Symptoms : Neurocysticercosis patients may experience cerebral hypertensive episodes , seizures or focal neurologic deficits after initiation of therapy ; begin appropriate steroid and anticonvulsant therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Risk of Retinal Damage in Retinal Cysticercosis : Cases of retinal involvement have been reported ; examine the patient for the presence of retinal lesions before initiating therapy for neurocysticercosis .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hepatic Effects .
Elevations of liver enzymes may occur .
Monitor liver enzymes before the start of each treatment cycle and at least every 2 weeks while on albendazole therapy and discontinue if clinically significant elevations occur .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Bone Marrow Suppression Fatalities associated with the use of albendazole have been reported due to granulocytopenia or pancytopenia .
Albendazole may cause bone marrow suppression , aplastic anemia , and agranulocytosis .
Monitor blood counts at the beginning of each 28 - day cycle of therapy , and every 2 weeks while on therapy with albendazole in all patients .
Patients with liver disease and patients with hepatic echinococcosis are at increased risk for bone marrow suppression and warrant more frequent monitoring of blood counts .
Discontinue albendazole if clinically significant decreases in blood cell counts occur .
5 . 2 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal reproduction studies , albendazole may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Embryotoxicity and skeletal malformations were reported in rats and rabbits when treated during the period of organogenesis ( at oral doses approximately 0 . 1 to 0 . 6 times the recommended human dose normalized for total body surface area ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating albendazole [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use an effective method of contraception during treatment with albendazole and for 3 days after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Neurologic Symptoms in Neurocysticercosis Patients being treated for neurocysticercosis should receive steroid and anticonvulsant therapy to prevent neurological symptoms ( e . g . seizures , increased intracranial pressure and focal signs ) as a result of an inflammatory reaction caused by death of the parasite within the brain .
5 . 4 Risk of Retinal Damage in Patients with Retinal Neurocysticercosis Cysticercosis may involve the retina .
Before initiating therapy for neurocysticercosis , examine the patient for the presence of retinal lesions .
If such lesions are visualized , weigh the need for anticysticeral therapy against the possibility of retinal damage resulting from inflammatory damage caused by albendazole - induced death of the parasite .
5 . 5 Hepatic Effects In clinical trials , treatment with albendazole has been associated with mild to moderate elevations of hepatic enzymes in approximately 16 % of patients .
These elevations have generally returned to normal upon discontinuation of therapy .
There have also been case reports of acute liver failure of uncertain causality and hepatitis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Monitor liver enzymes ( transaminases ) before the start of each treatment cycle and at least every 2 weeks during treatment .
If hepatic enzymes exceed twice the upper limit of normal , consideration should be given to discontinuing albendazole therapy based on individual patient circumstances .
Restarting albendazole treatment in patients whose hepatic enzymes have normalized off treatment is an individual decision that should take into account the risk / benefit of further albendazole usage .
Perform laboratory tests frequently if albendazole treatment is restarted .
Patients with elevated liver enzyme test results are at increased risk for hepatotoxicity and bone marrow suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Discontinue therapy if liver enzymes are significantly increased or if clinically significant decreases in blood cell counts occur .
5 . 6 Unmasking of Neurocysticercosis in Hydatid Patients Undiagnosed neurocysticercosis may be uncovered in patients treated with albendazole for other conditions .
Patients with epidemiologic factors who are at risk for neurocysticercosis should be evaluated prior to initiation of therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Adverse reactions 1 % or greater in hydatid disease : abnormal liver function tests , abdominal pain , nausea / vomiting , reversible alopecia , headache , dizziness / vertigo , fever .
( 6 . 1 ) • Adverse reactions 1 % or greater in neurocysticercosis : headache , nausea / vomiting , raised intracranial pressure , meningeal signs .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction profile of albendazole differs between hydatid disease and neurocysticercosis .
Adverse reactions occurring with a frequency of 1 % or greater in either disease are described in Table 2 below .
These symptoms were usually mild and resolved without treatment .
Treatment discontinuations were predominantly due to leukopenia ( 0 . 7 % ) or hepatic abnormalities ( 3 . 8 % in hydatid disease ) .
The following incidence reflects adverse reactions that were reported to be at least possibly or probably related to albendazole .
Table 2 : Adverse Reaction Incidence 1 % or Greater in Hydatid Disease and NeurocysticercosisAdverse Reaction Hydatid Disease Neurocysticercosis Gastrointestinal Abdominal Pain 6 0 Nausea 4 6 Vomiting 4 6 General disorders and administration site conditions Fever 1 0 Investigations Elevated Hepatic Enzymes 16 less than 1 Nervous system disorders Dizziness 1 less than 1 Headache 1 11 Meningeal Signs 0 1 Raised Intracranial Pressure 0 2 Vertigo 1 less than 1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Reversible Alopecia 2 less than 1 The following adverse events were observed at an incidence of less than 1 % : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : There have been reports of leukopenia , granulocytopenia , pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , or thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions , including rash and urticaria .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of albendazole .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Aplastic anemia , bone marrow suppression , neutropenia .
Eye Disorders : Vision blurred .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Diarrhea .
General System Disorders : Asthenia .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Elevations of hepatic enzymes , hepatitis , acute liver failure .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Rhabdomyolysis .
Nervous System Disorders : Somnolence , convulsion .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Acute renal failure .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Dexamethasone : Steady - state trough concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide were about 56 % higher when dexamethasone was coadministered with each dose of albendazole .
( 7 . 1 ) • Praziquantel : In the fed state increased mean maximum plasma concentration and area under the curve of albendazole sulfoxide by about 50 % in healthy subjects .
( 7 . 2 ) • Cimetidine : Increased albendazole sulfoxide concentrations in bile and cystic fluid by about 2 - fold in hydatid cyst patients .
( 7 . 3 ) • Theophylline : Albendazole induces cytochrome P450 1 A in human hepatoma cells ; therefore , it is recommended that plasma concentrations of theophylline be monitored during and after treatment .
( 5 . 5 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Dexamethasone Steady - state trough concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide were about 56 % higher when 8 mg dexamethasone was co - administered with each dose of albendazole ( 15 mg / kg / day ) in 8 neurocysticercosis patients .
7 . 2 Praziquantel In the fed state , praziquantel ( 40 mg / kg ) increased mean maximum plasma concentration and area under the curve of albendazole sulfoxide by about 50 % in healthy subjects ( n = 10 ) compared with a separate group of subjects ( n = 6 ) given albendazole alone .
Mean Tmax and mean plasma elimination half - life of albendazole sulfoxide were unchanged .
The pharmacokinetics of praziquantel were unchanged following co - administration with albendazole ( 400 mg ) .
7 . 3 Cimetidine Albendazole sulfoxide concentrations in bile and cystic fluid were increased ( about 2 - fold ) in hydatid cyst patients treated with cimetidine ( 10 mg / kg / day ) ( n = 7 ) compared with albendazole ( 20 mg / kg / day ) alone ( n = 12 ) .
Albendazole sulfoxide plasma concentrations were unchanged 4 hours after dosing .
7 . 4 Theophylline Following a single dose of albendazole ( 400 mg ) , the pharmacokinetics of theophylline ( aminophylline 5 . 8 mg / kg infused over 20 minutes ) were unchanged .
Albendazole induces cytochrome P450 1 A in human hepatoma cells ; therefore , it is recommended that plasma concentrations of theophylline be monitored during and after treatment .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal reproduction studies , albendazole may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
However , available human data from a small number of published case series and reports on the use of multiple - dose albendazole in the 1 st trimester of pregnancy , and several published studies on single - dose albendazole use later in pregnancy , have not identified any drug - associated risks for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproductive studies , oral administration of albendazole during the period of organogenesis caused embryotoxicity and skeletal malformations in pregnant rats ( at doses of 0 . 10 times and 0 . 32 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) and pregnant rabbits ( at doses of 0 . 60 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) .
Albendazole was also associated with maternal toxicity in rabbits ( at doses of 0 . 60 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) ( see Data ) .
Advise a pregnant woman of the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Albendazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( to cause embryotoxicity and skeletal malformations ) in pregnant rats and rabbits .
The teratogenic response in the rat was shown at oral doses of 10 and 30 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 10 times and 0 . 32 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 , respectively ) during organogenesis ( gestation days 6 to 15 ) and in pregnant rabbits at oral doses of 30 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 60 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) administered during organogenesis ( gestation days 7 to 19 ) .
In the rabbit study , maternal toxicity ( 33 % mortality ) was noted at 30 mg / kg / day .
In mice , no teratogenic effects were observed at oral doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 16 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) , administered during gestation days 6 to 15 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Concentrations of albendazole and the active metabolite , albendazole sulfoxide , have been reported to be low in human breast milk .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no information on the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for albaendazole and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from albendazole or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating albendazole .
Contraception Females Albendazole may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with albendazole and for 3 days after the final dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Hydatid disease is uncommon in infants and young children .
In neurocysticercosis , the efficacy of albendazole in children appears to be similar to that in adults .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In patients aged 65 and older with either hydatid disease or neurocysticercosis , there was insufficient data to determine whether the safety and effectiveness of albendazole is different from that of younger patients .
8 . 6 Patients with Impaired Renal Function The pharmacokinetics of albendazole in patients with impaired renal function has not been studied .
8 . 7 Patients with Extra - Hepatic Obstruction In patients with evidence of extrahepatic obstruction ( n = 5 ) , the systemic availability of albendazole sulfoxide was increased , as indicated by a 2 - fold increase in maximum serum concentration and a 7 - fold increase in area under the curve .
The rate of absorption / conversion and elimination of albendazole sulfoxide appeared to be prolonged with mean Tmax and serum elimination half - life values of 10 hours and 31 . 7 hours , respectively .
Plasma concentrations of parent albendazole were measurable in only 1 of 5 patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , symptomatic therapy and general supportive measures are recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Albendazole , USP is an orally administered anthelmintic drug .
Chemically , it is methyl 5 - ( propylthio ) - 2 - benzimidazolecarbamate .
Its molecular formula is C12H15N3O2S .
Its molecular weight is 265 . 34 .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albendazole , USP is a white to faintly yellowish powder .
It is freely soluble in anhydrous formic acid ; very slightly soluble in ether and in methylene chloride ; practically insoluble in alcohol and in water .
Each white to off - white , film - coated , unscored tablet contains 200 mg of albendazole , USP .
Inactive ingredients consist of : corn starch , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 and 8000 , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate type A , and sucralose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Albendazole is a synthetic , anthelmintic drug of the class benzimidazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Albendazole is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to its low aqueous solubility .
Albendazole concentrations are negligible or undetectable in plasma as it is rapidly converted to the sulfoxide metabolite prior to reaching the systemic circulation .
The systemic anthelmintic activity has been attributed to the primary metabolite , albendazole sulfoxide .
Oral bioavailability appears to be enhanced when albendazole is coadministered with a fatty meal ( estimated fat content 40 grams ) as evidenced by higher ( up to 5 - fold on average ) plasma concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide as compared to the fasted state .
Maximal plasma concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide were achieved 2 hours to 5 hours after dosing and were on average 1310 ng / mL ( range 460 ng / mL to 1580 ng / mL ) following oral doses of albendazole ( 400 mg ) in 6 hydatid disease patients , when administered with a fatty meal .
Plasma concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide increased in a dose - proportional manner over the therapeutic dose range following ingestion of a high - fat meal ( fat content 43 . 1 grams ) .
The mean apparent terminal elimination half - life of albendazole sulfoxide ranged from 8 hours to 12 hours in 25 healthy subjects , as well as in 14 hydatid and 8 neurocysticercosis patients .
Following 4 weeks of treatment with albendazole ( 200 mg three times daily ) , 12 patients ’ plasma concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide were approximately 20 % lower than those observed during the first half of the treatment period , suggesting that albendazole may induce its own metabolism .
Distribution Albendazole sulfoxide is 70 % bound to plasma protein and is widely distributed throughout the body ; it has been detected in urine , bile , liver , cyst wall , cyst fluid , and cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) .
Concentrations in plasma were 3 - fold to 10 - fold and 2 - fold to 4 - fold higher than those simultaneously determined in cyst fluid and CSF , respectively .
Metabolism and Excretion Albendazole is rapidly converted in the liver to the primary metabolite , albendazole sulfoxide , which is further metabolized to albendazole sulfone and other primary oxidative metabolites that have been identified in human urine .
Following oral administration , albendazole has not been detected in human urine .
Urinary excretion of albendazole sulfoxide is a minor elimination pathway with less than 1 % of the dose recovered in the urine .
Biliary elimination presumably accounts for a portion of the elimination as evidenced by biliary concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide similar to those achieved in plasma .
Specific Populations Pediatrics Following single - dose administration of 200 mg to 300 mg ( approximately 10 mg / kg ) albendazole to 3 fasted and 2 fed pediatric patients with hydatid cyst disease ( age range 6 to 13 years ) , albendazole sulfoxide pharmacokinetics were similar to those observed in fed adults .
Geriatrics Although no studies have investigated the effect of age on albendazole sulfoxide pharmacokinetics , data in 26 hydatid cyst patients ( up to 79 years ) suggest pharmacokinetics similar to those in young healthy subjects .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Albendazole binds to the colchicine - sensitive site of β - tubulin inhibiting their polymerization into microtubules .
The decrease in microtubules in the intestinal cells of the parasites decreases their absorptive function , especially the uptake of glucose by the adult and larval forms of the parasites , and also depletes glycogen storage .
Insufficient glucose results in insufficient energy for the production of adenosine trisphosphate ( ATP ) and the parasite eventually dies .
Mechanism of Resistance Parasitic resistance to albendazole is caused by changes in amino acids that result in changes in the β - tubulin protein .
This causes reduced binding of the drug to β - tubulin .
In the specified treatment indications albendazole appears to be active against the larval forms of the following organisms : Echinococcus granulosus Taenia solium 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats .
No evidence of increased incidence of tumors was found in the mice or rats at up to 400 mg / kg / day or 20 mg / kg / day respectively ( 2 times and 0 . 2 times the recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In genotoxicity tests , albendazole was found negative in an Ames Salmonella / Microsome Plate mutation assay , Chinese Hamster Ovary chromosomal aberration test , and in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
In the in vitro BALB / 3T3 cells transformation assay , albendazole produced weak activity in the presence of metabolic activation while no activity was found in the absence of metabolic activation .
Albendazole did not adversely affect male or female fertility in the rat at an oral dose of 30 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 32 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area in mg / m2 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Albendazole Tablets , USP are available as follows : 200 mg — Each white to off white , round , film - coated , unscored tablet debossed with ‘ A210 ’ on one side and plain on the other contains 200 mg of albendazole , USP .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 2 ( NDC 0591 - 2712 - 02 ) with a child - resistant closure .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised that : • Some people , particularly children , may experience difficulties swallowing the albendazole tablets whole .
• Take albendazole tablets with food .
• Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females to inform their prescriber of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with albendazole and for 3 days after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• During albendazole tablets therapy , monitor blood counts and liver enzymes every 2 weeks because of the possibility of harm to the liver or bone marrow [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Manufactured In India By : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . A 7 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0591 - 2712 - 02 Albendazole Tablets USP 200 mg Rx only 2 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
