Active Ingredients Benzoyl Peroxide 5 . 0 % Use For the management of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product : • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this products • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration Do not use if you • have sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide Stop use and ask a doctor if • irriatation becomes servere Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Lather between palms with water .
Massage in circular motion on wet skin for 20 - 30 seconds and rinse thoroughly .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily .
Then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
• Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above .
Store in a cool , dry place .
Water , Sodium C14 - 16 Olefin Sulfonate , Coco - Betaine , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Cocoyl Arginine Amide , Niacinamide , Mandelic Acid , Malic Acid , Safflower Acids , Syringa Vulgaris ( Lilac ) Extract , Penthenol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Allantoin , Tocopheryl Acetate , Myristoyl Tetrapeptide - 13 , Myristoyl Hexapeptide - 23 , Lauric Acid , Lactobacillus Ferment Lysate , Beta - glucan , Butylene Glycol , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Pentylene Glycol , Hydroxyphenyl Propamidobenzoic Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol .
For the treatment of Acne BP Body Wash . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] BP Body Wash . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
