active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % purpose sunscreen uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approaching a source of heat or flame , or before smoking do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
 contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away direction ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance May stain or damage some fabrics of surfaces This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Kids Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
Oxybenzone & Octinoxate free Best Choice 100 % Guaranteed PROUDLY DISTRIBUTED BY : VALU MERCHANDISERS , CO .
5000 KANSAS AVE KANSAS CITY , KS 66106 www . bestchoicebrand . com principal display panel Best Choice Compare to Coppertone Kids Reef - Friendly Formula Sun Protection For Your Family SUNSCREEN FOR kIDS SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 UVA / UVB Sunscreen • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) • Pediatrician Tested • Sprays At Any Angle NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
