COMPOSITION Amount per Tablet : VITAMINS AND MINERALS Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 25 mcg Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate ( as Folic acid USP 680 mcg DFE and L - methylfolate calcium 1020 mcg DFE , as Metafolin ® CAS # 151533 - 22 - 1 ) 1700 mcg DFE Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Iron ( as ferrous fumarate ) 18 mg Iodine ( as potassium iodide ) 150 mcg Other Ingredients Microcrystalline cellulose , hydroxypropylcellulose , modified food starch , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , sucrose , silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide ( as color ) , polyethylene glycol , talc , sodium ascorbate , medium chain triglycerides , dl - alpha - tocopherol , sucralose , FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake .
USAGE Vitafol ® - Nano provides vitamin and mineral supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® - Nano is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folate , especially in doses above 1700 mcg DFE ( 1000 mcg folic acid ) daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
DRUG INTERACTIONS High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbitol , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® - Nano .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Before , during and after pregnancy , one tablet daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® - Nano is available as a light blue , round tablet imprinted with " 94 " on one side .
Available in 30 cts in HDPE bottle , 0642 - 0094 - 01 .
Store at room temperature approximately 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat , light , moisture and humidity .
Rx Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2021 Exeltis USA , Inc .
Metafolin ® is a trademark of Merck KGaA , Darmstadt , Germany U . S . Patent No . 6 , 441 , 168B1 ; 5 , 997 , 915 ; 6 , 254 , 904 ; 6 , 808 , 725 ; 7 , 172 , 778 and 7 , 674 , 490 Rev . January 2021 0940101 - 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tablet Bottle Label 0642 - 0094 - 01 VITAFOL Nano Smallest Prenatal Supplement with essential nutrients 30 Tablets Rx DIETARY SUPPLEMENT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
