Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • if used daily , can prevent recurrence of athlete ' s foot • relieves symptoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning and cracking Warnings For external use only Flammable .
Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure Do not store in temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
When using this product • avoid contact eyes and face • use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmfl or fatal .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement after 4 weks Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a this layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to the spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once day .
• use daily for 4 weeks ; if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and night ) • in case of clogging , clean nozzle with a pin Other information store between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients alcohol , isobutane , perfume , propane , n - butane , talc powder .
ANTI FUNGAL POWDER SPRAY Label PERSONAL CARE ® ANTIFUNGAL POWDER SPRAY For Athlete ' s Foot TOLNAFTATE 1 % * Compare to the Active Ingredients in Tinactin ® Cures and Prevents Most Athlete ' s Foot Relieves Itching and Burning * This product is not manufactured ir distributed by Schering - Plough HealthCare Products , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Tinactin ® Distributed by : Personal Care Products , Inc .
Bingham Farms , MI 48025 - 3463 Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
