Contains Sample Diversion System for the collection of unanticoagulated whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Caution : The Composelect System ( PQ312US ) is not FDA approved for manufacturing Platelets in the United States .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” : “ A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . ”
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc . 12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
Description The blood bag system has a sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path and is intended for single use only .
Contains sample pouch for the collection of unanticoagulated whole blood samples for laboratory testing .
Integral filter unit intended for leukocyte reduction of AS - 1 red blood cells : • • At ambient temperature up to 8 hours after blood collection .
• • At refrigerated temperature ( 1 ° to 6 ° C ) up to 3 days after blood collection if AS - 1 red blood cells are prepared within 3 days after whole blood collection .
Leukocyte reduced red blood cells may then be stored for up to 42 days after collection .
General Precautions • • Do not squeeze or fold the filter • • Cannulae must be opened by hand .
Do not use any manual hand opening tools , such as the Fenwal Cannula Cracker .
• • Inadequate clamping of the donation line can cause non - sterile air to enter the blood bag once the needle cover has been removed • • Do not use the Composelect System ( PQ312US ) for the manufacture of Platelets .
FDA has not approved this container for manufacturing Platelets in the United States .
Directions for Use Pre - collection Inspection Examine the collection container and storage containers .
Do not use the container if you observe any of the following : • • Visible damage , defects or non - conformity to the product representing a risk to the integrity of the system • • Appearance and translucence of the solutions • • Kinks and large dents in the tubing • • Damaged or loose components of the product • • In - line cannula is broken and / or anticoagulant is present in the sample pouch or in the tubing from the in - line cannula to the sample pouch and donor needle ( see Figure 1 ) .
Note : Condensation in the empty tubing of the Composelect System is expected as a result of the sterilization process .
Collection Procedure Use aseptic technique .
1 .
Identify Composelect System using appropriate donor identification system .
Note : The satellite containers are not intended for storage of Platelets .
Do not label for Platelet storage 2 .
Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight and position the blood bag system on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : When using a Composelect System on a donor scale , ensure that the filter is not placed between the bags as this could cause improper mixing of the blood with anticoagulant .
3 .
Unwind the tubing and ensure it is torsion - free to prevent the needle from turning while drawing blood .
See Figure 1 .
4 .
Close only the blue clamp on the donor tubing .
See Figure 1 .
Notes : • • Do not close the red clamp to the sample pouch ; it is a non - reopenable clamp .
See Figure 1 .
• • Ensure that the sample pouch remains below the donor ’ s arm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Following facility procedures , disinfect site of venipuncture , then apply pressure to donor ’ s arm .
6 .
Remove Fenwal HighFlo1 needle cover per instructions below : • a ) Holding the hub and cover near tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
• b ) Remove and discard needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
7 .
Following facility procedures , perform venipuncture and appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing .
When good blood flow is established , stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape ( see Figure 2 ) .
8 .
As the sample pouch is filling , break the in - line cannula below the Y - junction .
See Figure 1 .
Note : To completely break the in - line cannula , grasp with both hands .
Snap it at a 90 ° angle in one direction and then bend it at a 180 ° angle in the opposite direction .
Precaution : Failure to break the in - line cannula completely may result in restricted blood flow .
9 .
Allow the sample pouch to fill with blood according to facility procedures .
Monitor blood flow into the sample pouch .
Precautions : • • Do not elevate or squeeze the sample pouch as this could cause blood to backflow from the sample pouch into the collection system .
• • Once the sample pouch is filled to desired volume , complete steps 10 – 16 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing and / or sample pouch .
10 .
After filling the sample pouch , close the red clamp on the line towards the sample pouch .
11 .
Open the blue clamp on donor tubing to begin collection .
See Figure 1 .
Note : Mix blood and anticoagulant in the primary container immediately , at several intervals during collection , and immediately after collection .
12 .
Once collection has begun , hermetically seal tubing between sample pouch and the red clamp .
13 .
To collect samples , open the cap of the sample access device , then hold the sample pouch in an upright position with the access device pointing downwards .
14 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device until the stopper is punctured .
15 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
Note : Don ’ t squeeze the sample pouch .
16 .
Repeat steps 14 and 15 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
17 .
Collect 500 mL ± 10 % volume of blood .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on the Composelect System ± 10 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 18 .
After the collection has been completed , close the blue clamp on the donor tubing .
Precaution : Once the desired blood volume is collected , complete steps 19 to 23 within approximately 4 minutes to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
19 .
Release pressure on donor ’ s arm .
20 .
Hermetically seal donor tubing between the in - line cannula and the primary container .
21 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) .
Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
b ) Hold sides of needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
c ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
22 .
Grip the retracted needle by the needle hub and place the needle into the sample access device , then close the cap to secure the needle .
23 .
Remove and discard the sampling system and needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following facility procedures .
If donor tubing is also to be discarded , hermetically seal donor tubing directly above the primary container and remove .
24 .
If the donor tubing is not hermetically sealed directly above the primary container , then strip the blood from the remaining donor tubing into the primary container and mix .
If desired , allow tubing to refill .
25 .
Follow your facility procedure to place the unit into appropriate temporary storage at ambient temperature or with sufficient coolant to lower the temperature continuously toward 1 - 10 ° C until delivered to the component processing facility .
Component Preparation Centrifugation and Plasma Separation Notes : • • Fresh frozen plasma should be separated from the red blood cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
• • Adsol red cell preservation solution should be added to the red blood cells immediately after the removal of plasma .
• • Preparation of AS - 1 red blood cells may vary depending on processing option selected : • a ) Within 8 hours of blood collection if whole blood is held at ambient temperature .
• b ) Within 3 days of blood collection if whole blood is stored at 1 ° C - 6 ° C .
At the appropriate time , prepare the Composelect System for centrifugation .
26 .
Thoroughly mix the primary container end over end .
27 .
Load the Composelect System into a centrifuge cup per the instructions on page 4 .
Notes : • • This guide is one method for centrifuge cup loading .
The specific stacking order and methods may vary depending on the workstation setup , centrifuge equipment , and facility - specific Standard Operating Procedures .
• • It is important to pack the filter properly in the centrifugation cup to avoid damage to the filter during centrifugation .
28 .
After loading the Composelect System into the centrifuge cup , perform centrifugation according to facility procedures .
29 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifuge cup , taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
30 .
Place primary container in a plasma extractor and apply pressure .
Clamp off tubing above the filter to prevent plasma flow into filter during plasma transfer .
Clamp off tubing below Y - junction leading to secondary Transfer Pack container not to be filled with plasma .
Open the cannula on the top of the primary container to transfer plasma into the empty transfer pack container .
31 .
When the desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp the tubing between the plasma container and the Y - junction closest to the plasma container and release pressure on the primary container .
32 .
Hermetically seal and remove satellite containers .
Addition of Adsol to Red Cells 33 .
Suspend the Adsol red cell preservation solution container , above the primary container ensuring that the primary container remains below the level of the filter during prime .
34 .
Open the cannula on the Adsol solution container and remove the clamp between the primary container and the filter .
35 .
Allow the Adsol to drain through the filter into the primary container .
36 .
After prime is complete , clamp the tubing between the filter and primary container .
37 .
Mix the Adsol red cell preservation solution and red cells thoroughly .
Notes : • • If the Adsol red cell preservation solution is not added to the red cells , ensure appropriate labeling of the red cell container .
Also ensure that tubing with unique segment numbers are attached , as the primary container does not include tubing with segment numbers .
Manufacture of CPD red cells for transfusion must include proper labeling of the container , as well as attached tubing , with unique segment numbers .
• • A CPD red cell without Adsol red cell preservation solution may be stored between 1º and 6º C up to 21 days after collection .
The attached Bioflex RC filter should not be used to leukoreduce a CPD red cell product without Adsol red cell preservation solution and should be detached from the primary container .
• • CPD Red Blood Cells without Adsol can be leukoreduced using an appropriate “ dock - on ” filter .
Integral Red Cell Filtration Precaution : Red blood cell products collected from certain donors may have extended filtration times and the potential for ineffective leukoreduction .
38 .
Mix unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells thoroughly .
Invert the unfiltered AS - 1 red blood cells and hang the filter set such that the filter remains vertical .
To achieve maximum flow rate , allow the set to hang to full length .
The storage container must remain below the level of the filter during filtration .
39 .
Filtration must be initiated within 8 hours after collection if Red Blood cells are maintained at ambient temperature and filtration is performed at ambient temperature or within 3 days after collection if Red Blood Cells are stored at 1 ° C - 6 ° C and filtration is performed at 1 ° C - 6 ° C 40 .
Inspect all tubing to ensure it hangs freely without kinks .
41 .
Remove the clamp above the filter to start filtration .
Note : Manual or mechanical pressure should not be used to increase the flow rate through the filter .
Tubing below the filter should not be stripped at any time during the filtration process .
Note : If filtration of red cells is initiated at ambient temperature , the filtration process can be completed at either ambient or refrigerated temperature prior to storing the red cells between 1 ° and 6 ° C . However , for optimal filtration time , it is recommended to complete the filtration at ambient temperature .
42 .
When filtration is complete , air can be observed in the inlet side of the filter .
Hermetically seal and detach the tubing below the filter .
43 .
Make segments on the post - filter tubing and leave segments attached to the leukoreduced red cell storage container .
QC samples may be prepared by stripping the red blood cells in the tubing , thoroughly mixing the red blood cells , then refilling the tubing and sealing the segments .
Discard the filter and the empty primary container .
44 .
Store the AS - 1 red blood cells , leukocytes reduced between 1º and 6 ° C . 45 .
Transfuse the red cells within 42 days of collection .
46 .
Quality control should be per FDA “ Guidance for Industry - Pre - Storage Leukocyte Reduction of Whole blood and Blood Components Intended for Transfusion ” , current issue .
Warning : Failure to achieve closed system processing conditions negates the extended storage claim and the red blood cell product must be transfused within 24 hours .
If the integrity of the Red Blood Cell product is compromised , the product must be labeled appropriately as Open System .
Dispose of waste in appropriate biohazard container or according to local regulatory requirements .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Van der Meer , P . F . , & de Korte , D . “ Increase of blood donation speed by optimizing the needle - to - tubing connection : an application of donation software . ”
Vox Sanguinis 2009 , 97 : 21 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fresenius Kabi AG 61346 Bad Homburg Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com 1 - 800 - 933 - 6925 © 2022 Fresenius Kabi AG .
All rights reserved .
All trademarks referred to are property of their respective owners .
33827 11 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL COMPOSELECT / ADSOL SOLN W / SAMPLE DIVERSION SYSTEM / INTEGRAL BIOFLEX RC RED CELL FILTER / TRIPLE / 500 ML [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
