1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE APRISO capsules are indicated for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in patients 18 years of age and older .
• • APRISO is a locally - acting aminosalicylate indicated for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in adult patients is 1 . 5 g ( four APRISO capsules ) orally once daily in the morning .
APRISO may be taken without regard to meals .
APRISO should not be co - administered with antacids .
An evaluation of renal function is recommended before initiating therapy with APRISO .
• • Four APRISO capsules once daily ( 1 . 5 g / day ) in the morning with or without food .
Do not co - administer with antacids .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Extended - release capsules containing 0 . 375 g mesalamine .
• • Extended - release capsules : 0 . 375 g ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS APRISO is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the components of APRISO capsules .
• • Hypersensitivity to salicylates , aminosalicylates , or any component of APRISO capsules ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Renal impairment may occur .
Assess renal function at the beginning of treatment and periodically during therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Acute exacerbation of colitis symptoms can occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Use caution with pre - existing liver disease .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment , including minimal change nephropathy , acute and chronic interstitial nephritis , and , rarely , renal failure , has been reported in patients given products such as APRISO that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine .
It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of APRISO therapy and periodically while on therapy .
Exercise caution when using APRISO in patients with known renal dysfunction or a history of renal disease .
In animal studies , the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Mesalamine - Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from a flare of inflammatory bowel disease .
Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined , it has occurred in 3 % of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine .
Symptoms include cramping , acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea , sometimes fever , headache , and rash .
If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected , promptly discontinue treatment with APRISO .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to APRISO capsules or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine .
5 . 4 Hepatic Impairment There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre - existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine .
Caution should be exercised when administering APRISO to patients with liver disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are headache , diarrhea , upper abdominal pain , nausea , nasopharyngitis , flu or flu - like illness , sinusitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to APRISO in 557 patients , including 354 exposed for at least 6 months and 250 exposed for greater than one year .
APRISO was studied in two placebo - controlled trials ( n = 367 treated with APRISO ) and in one open - label , long - term study ( n = 190 additional patients ) .
The population consisted of patients with ulcerative colitis ; the mean age was 47 years , 54 % were female , and 93 % were white .
Patients received doses of APRISO 1 . 5 g administered orally once per day for six months in the placebo - controlled trials and for up to 24 months in the open - label study .
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the two placebo - controlled trials , 59 % of APRISO - treated patients experienced an adverse reaction compared with 64 % of placebo patients .
Most adverse reactions with APRISO were mild or moderate in severity .
Severe adverse reactions occurred in 6 % of APRISO - treated patients and 5 % of placebo - treated patients .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 11 % of APRISO - treated patients and 17 % of placebo - treated patients ; the most common adverse reaction resulting in study discontinuation was recurrence of ulcerative colitis ( APRISO 6 % , placebo 14 % ) .
The most common reactions reported with APRISO ( ≥ 3 % ) are shown in Table 1 below .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions during Clinical Trials Occurring in at Least 3 % of APRISO - Treated Patients and at a Greater Rate than with PlaceboMedDRA Preferred Term APRISO 1 . 5 g / day N = 367 Placebo N = 185 Headache 11 % 8 % Diarrhea 8 % 7 % Abdominal Pain Upper 5 % 3 % Nausea 4 % 3 % Nasopharyngitis 4 % 3 % Influenza & Influenza - like illness 4 % 4 % Sinusitis 3 % 3 % The following adverse reactions , presented by body system , were reported at a frequency less than 3 % in patients treated with APRISO for up to 24 months in controlled and open - label trials .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : tinnitus , vertigo Dermatological Disorder : alopecia Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain lower , rectal hemorrhage Laboratory Abnormalities : increased triglycerides , decreased hematocrit and hemoglobin General Disorders and Administration Site Disorders : fatigue Hepatic : hepatitis cholestatic , transaminases increased Renal Disorders : creatinine clearance decreased , hematuria Musculoskeletal : pain , arthralgia Respiratory : dyspnea 6 . 2 Adverse Reaction Information from Other Sources The following adverse reactions have been identified during clinical trials of a product similar to APRISO and post approval use of other mesalamine - containing products such as APRISO .
Because many of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : lupus - like syndrome , drug fever Cardiovascular : pericarditis , pericardial effusion , myocarditis Gastrointestinal : pancreatitis , cholecystitis , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal bleeding , perforated peptic ulcer Hepatic : jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis , liver necrosis , liver failure , Kawasaki - like syndrome including changes in liver enzymes Hematologic : agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia Nervous System : intracranial hypertension Neurological / Psychiatric : peripheral neuropathy , Guillain - Barré syndrome , transverse myelitis Renal and Urinary : nephrogenic diabetes insipidus Respiratory / Pulmonary : eosinophilic pneumonia , interstitial pneumonitis Skin : psoriasis , pyoderma gangrenosum , erythema nodosum Renal / Urogenital : reversible oligospermia 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Based on in vitro studies , APRISO is not expected to inhibit the metabolism of drugs that are substrates of CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 .
• • Do not co - administer with antacids ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Antacids Because the dissolution of the coating of the granules in APRISO capsules depends on pH , APRISO capsules should not be co - administered with antacids .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Use with caution in patients with renal disease .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Monitor blood cell counts in geriatric patients .
( 8 . 5 ) • • Advise patients with phenylketonuria that APRISO contains aspartame .
( 17 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies with mesalamine have been performed in rats at oral doses up to 320 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 7 times the recommended human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) and rabbits at doses up to 495 mg / kg / day ( about 5 . 4 times the recommended human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to mesalamine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Mesalamine is known to cross the placental barrier .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Low concentrations of mesalamine and higher concentrations of its N - acetyl metabolite have been detected in human breast milk .
The clinical significance of this has not been determined and there is limited experience of nursing women using mesalamine .
Caution should be exercised when APRISO is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of APRISO capsules in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of APRISO did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients should be considered when prescribing APRISO .
Reports from uncontrolled clinical studies and postmarketing reporting systems suggested a higher incidence of blood dyscrasias , i . e . , neutropenia , pancytopenia , in patients who were 65 years or older who were taking mesalamine - containing products such as APRISO .
Caution should be taken to closely monitor blood cell counts during mesalamine therapy .
Mesalamine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken when prescribing this drug therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE APRISO is an aminosalicylate , and symptoms of salicylate toxicity include hematemesis , tachypnea , hyperpnea , tinnitus , deafness , lethargy , seizures , confusion , or dyspnea .
Severe intoxication may lead to electrolyte and blood pH imbalance and potentially to other organ ( e . g . , renal and liver ) involvement .
There is no specific antidote for mesalamine overdose ; however , conventional therapy for salicylate toxicity may be beneficial in the event of acute overdosage .
This includes prevention of further gastrointestinal tract absorption by emesis and , if necessary , by gastric lavage .
Fluid and electrolyte imbalance should be corrected by the administration of appropriate intravenous therapy .
Adequate renal function should be maintained .
APRISO is a pH - dependent delayed - release product and this factor should be considered when treating a suspected overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Each APRISO capsule is a delayed - and extended - release dosage form for oral administration .
Each capsule contains 0 . 375 g of mesalamine USP ( 5 - aminosalicylic acid , 5 - ASA ) , an anti - inflammatory drug .
The structural formula of mesalamine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight : 153 . 14 Molecular Formula : C7H7NO3 Each APRISO capsule contains granules composed of mesalamine in a polymer matrix with an enteric coating that dissolves at pH 6 and above .
The inactive ingredients of APRISO capsules are colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , simethicone emulsion ethyl acrylate / methyl methacrylate copolymer nonoxynol 100 dispersion , hypromellose , methacrylic acid copolymer , talc , titanium dioxide , triethyl citrate , aspartame , anhydrous citric acid , povidone , vanilla flavor , and edible black ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) is unknown , but appears to be local to the intestinal mucosa rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways , i . e . , prostanoids , and through the lipoxygenase pathways , i . e . , leukotrienes and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids , is increased in patients with ulcerative colitis , and it is possible that 5 - ASA diminishes inflammation by blocking production of arachidonic acid metabolites .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of 5 - ASA and its metabolite , N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( N - Ac - 5 - ASA ) , were studied after a single and multiple oral doses of 1 . 5 g APRISO in a crossover study in healthy subjects under fasting conditions .
In the multiple - dose period , each subject received APRISO 1 . 5 g ( 4 x 0 . 375 g capsules ) every 24 hours ( QD ) for 7 consecutive days .
Steady state was reached on Day 6 of QD dosing based on trough concentrations .
After single and multiple doses of APRISO , peak plasma concentrations were observed at about 4 hours post dose .
At steady state , moderate increases ( 1 . 5 - fold and 1 . 7 - fold ) in systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 24 ) to 5 - ASA and N - Ac - 5 - ASA were observed when compared with a single - dose of APRISO .
Pharmacokinetic parameters after a single dose of 1 . 5 g APRISO and at steady state in healthy subjects under fasting condition are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Single Dose and Multiple Dose Mean ( ± SD ) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Mesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) and N - Ac - 5 - ASA after 1 . 5 g APRISO Administration in Healthy SubjectsMesalamine ( 5 - ASA ) Single Dose ( n = 24 ) Multiple Dosec ( n = 24 ) a Median ( range ) ; b Harmonic mean ( pseudo SD ) ; c after 7 days of treatment AUC0 - 24 ( μg * h / mL ) 11 ± 5 17 ± 6 AUC0 - inf ( μg * h / mL ) 14 ± 5 - Cmax ( μg / mL ) 2 . 1 ± 1 . 1 2 . 7 ± 1 . 1 Tmax ( h ) a 4 ( 2 , 16 ) 4 ( 2 , 8 ) t ½ ( h ) b 9 ± 7 10 ± 8 N - Ac - 5 - ASA AUC0 - 24 ( μg * h / mL ) 26 ± 6 37 ± 9 AUC0 - inf ( μg * h / mL ) 51 ± 23 - Cmax ( μg / mL ) 2 . 8 ± 0 . 8 3 . 4 ± 0 . 9 Tmax ( h ) a 4 ( 4 , 12 ) 5 ( 2 , 8 ) t ½ ( h ) b 12 ± 11 14 ± 10 In a separate study ( n = 30 ) , it was observed that under fasting conditions about 32 % ± 11 % ( mean ± SD ) of the administered dose was systemically absorbed based on the combined cumulative urinary excretion of 5 - ASA and N - Ac - 5 - ASA over 96 hours post - dose .
The effect of a high fat meal intake on absorption of mesalamine granules ( the same granules contained in APRISO capsules ) was evaluated in 30 healthy subjects .
Subjects received 1 . 6 g of mesalamine granules in sachet ( 2 x 0 . 8 g ) following an overnight fast or a high fat meal in a crossover study .
Under fed conditions , tmax for both 5 - ASA and N - Ac - 5 - ASA was prolonged by 4 and 2 hours , respectively .
A high fat meal did not affect Cmax for 5 - ASA , but a 27 % increase in the cumulative urinary excretion of 5 - ASA was observed with a high fat meal .
The overall extent of absorption of N - Ac - 5 - ASA was not affected by a high fat meal .
As APRISO and mesalamine granules in sachet were bioequivalent , APRISO can be taken without regard to food .
Distribution In an in vitro study , at 2 . 5 μg / mL , mesalamine and N - Ac - 5 - ASA are 43 ± 6 % and 78 ± 1 % bound , respectively , to plasma proteins .
Protein binding of N - Ac - 5 - ASA does not appear to be concentration dependent at concentrations ranging from 1 to 10 μg / mL .
Metabolism The major metabolite of mesalamine is N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( N - Ac - 5 - ASA ) .
It is formed by N - acetyltransferase activity in the liver and intestinal mucosa .
Elimination Following single and multiple doses of APRISO , the mean half - lives were 9 to 10 hours for 5 - ASA , and 12 to 14 hours for N - Ac - 5 - ASA .
Of the approximately 32 % of the dose absorbed , about 2 % of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine , compared with about 30 % of the dose excreted as N - Ac - 5 - ASA .
In Vitro Drug - Drug Interaction Study In an in vitro study using human liver microsomes , 5 - ASA and its metabolite , N - Ac - 5 - ASA , were shown not to inhibit the major CYP enzymes evaluated ( CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 ) .
Therefore , mesalamine and its metabolite are not expected to inhibit the metabolism of other drugs that are substrates of CYP1A2 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary mesalamine was not carcinogenic in rats at doses as high as 480 mg / kg / day , or in mice at 2000 mg / kg / day .
These doses are about 2 . 6 and 5 . 4 times the recommended human dose of granulated mesalamine capsules of 1 . 5 g / day ( 30 mg / kg if 50 kg body weight assumed or 1110 mg / m2 ) , respectively , based on body surface area .
Mesalamine was negative in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y / TK + / - ) forward mutation test , the sister chromatid exchange assay in the Chinese hamster bone marrow test , and the mouse bone marrow micronucleus test .
Mesalamine at oral doses up to 320 mg / kg ( about 1 . 7 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility or reproductive performance in rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Renal Toxicity Animal studies with mesalamine ( 13 - week and 26 - week oral toxicity studies in rats , and 26 - week and 52 - week oral toxicity studies in dogs ) have shown the kidney to be the major target organ of mesalamine toxicity .
Oral doses of 40 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 20 times the human dose , on the basis of body surface area ) produced minimal to slight tubular injury , and doses of 160 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 90 times the human dose , on the basis of body surface area ) or higher in rats produced renal lesions including tubular degeneration , tubular mineralization , and papillary necrosis .
Oral doses of 60 mg / kg / day ( about 1 . 1 times the human dose , on the basis of body surface area ) or higher in dogs also produced renal lesions including tubular atrophy , interstitial cell infiltration , chronic nephritis , and papillary necrosis .
Overdosage Single oral doses of 800 mg / kg ( about 2 . 2 times the recommended human dose , on the basis of body surface area ) and 1800 mg / kg ( about 9 . 7 times the recommended human dose , on the basis of body surface area ) of mesalamine were lethal to mice and rats , respectively , and resulted in gastrointestinal and renal toxicity .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Ulcerative Colitis Two similar , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center studies were conducted in a total of 562 adult patients in remission from ulcerative colitis .
The study populations had a mean age of 46 years ( 11 % age 65 years or older ) , were 53 % female , and were primarily white ( 92 % ) .
Ulcerative colitis disease activity was assessed using a modified Sutherland Disease Activity Index1 ( DAI ) , which is a sum of four subscores based on stool frequency , rectal bleeding , mucosal appearance on endoscopy , and physician ’ s rating of disease activity .
Each subscore can range from 0 to 3 , for a total possible DAI score of 12 .
At baseline , approximately 80 % of patients had a total DAI score of 0 or 1 . 0 .
Patients were randomized 2 : 1 to receive either APRISO 1 . 5 g or placebo once daily in the morning for six months .
Patients were assessed at baseline , 1 month , 3 months , and 6 months in the clinic , with endoscopy performed at baseline , at end of study , or if clinical symptoms developed .
Relapse was defined as a rectal bleeding subscale score of 1 or more and a mucosal appearance subscale score of 2 or more using the DAI .
The analysis of the intent - to - treat population was a comparison of the proportions of patients who remained relapse - free at the end of six months of treatment .
For the table below ( Table 3 ) all patients who prematurely withdrew from the study for any reason were counted as relapses .
In both studies , the proportion of patients who remained relapse - free at six months was greater for APRISO than for placebo .
Table 3 : Percentage of Patients Relapse - Free * through 6 Months in APRISO Maintenance Studies APRISO 1 . 5 g / day % ( # no relapse / N ) Placebo % ( # no relapse / N ) Difference ( 95 % C . I . ) P - value * Relapse counted as rectal bleeding score ≥ 1 and mucosal appearance score ≥ 2 , or premature withdrawal from study .
Study 1 68 % ( 143 / 209 ) 51 % ( 49 / 96 ) 17 % ( 5 . 5 , 29 . 2 ) < 0 . 001 Study 2 71 % ( 117 / 164 ) 59 % ( 55 / 93 ) 12 % ( 0 , 24 . 5 ) 0 . 046 Examination of gender subgroups did not identify difference in response to APRISO among these subgroups .
There were too few elderly and too few African - American patients to adequately assess difference in effects in those populations .
The use of APRISO for treating ulcerative colitis beyond six months has not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials .
15 REFERENCES • 1 .
Sutherland LR , Martin F , Greer S , Robinson M , Greenberger N , Saibil F , et al . 5 - Aminosalicylic acid enema in the treatment of distal ulcerative colitis , proctosigmoiditis , and proctitis .
Gastroenterology 1987 ; 92 ( 6 ) : 1894 - 1898 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING APRISO is available as light blue opaque hard gelatin capsules containing 0 . 375 g mesalamine and with the letters “ G ” and “ M ” on either side of a black band imprinted on the capsule .
NDC 65649 - 103 - 02 Bottles of 120 capsules Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients with Phenylketonuria • • Inform patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) or their caregivers that each APRISO capsule contains aspartame equivalent to 0 . 56 mg of phenylalanine , so that the recommended adult dosing provides an equivalent of 2 . 24 mg of phenylalanine per day .
General Counseling Information • • Instruct patients not to take APRISO capsules with antacids , because it could affect the way APRISO dissolves .
• • Instruct patients to contact a health care provider if they experience a worsening of ulcerative colitis symptoms , because it could be due to a reaction to APRISO .
Manufactured for : Salix Pharmaceuticals , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA U . S . Patent Numbers : 6 , 551 , 620 ; 7 , 547 , 451 ; 8 , 337 , 886 ; 8 , 496 , 965 ; 8 , 865 , 688 ; 8 , 911 , 778 ; 8 , 940 , 328 ; and 8 , 956 , 647 Apriso is a trademark of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc . , or its affiliates .
© Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC Please see www . salix . com for patent information .
9510501 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 0 . 375 g 2160 43353 - 884 - 79 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20171214 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 375 g NDC 43353 - 884 - 79 - Mesalamine ( Apriso ) ER 0 . 375 g - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
