DESCRIPTION LEVEMIR ® ( insulin detemir [ rDNA origin ] injection ) is a sterile solution of insulin detemir for use as an injection .
Insulin detemir is a long - acting basal insulin analog , with up to 24 hours duration of action , produced by a process that includes expression of recombinant DNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae followed by chemical modification .
Insulin detemir differs from human insulin in that the amino acid threonine in position B30 has been omitted , and a C14 fatty acid chain has been attached to the amino acid B29 .
Insulin detemir has a molecular formula of C267H402O76N64S6 and a molecular weight of 5916 . 9 .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] LEVEMIR is a clear , colorless , aqueous , neutral sterile solution .
Each milliliter of LEVEMIR contains 100 U ( 14 . 2 mg / mL ) insulin detemir , 65 . 4 mcg zinc , 2 . 06 mg m - cresol , 16 . 0 mg glycerol , 1 . 80 mg phenol , 0 . 89 mg disodium phosphate dihydrate , 1 . 17 mg sodium chloride , and water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . LEVEMIR has a pH of approximately 7 . 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin detemir is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins , including insulin detemir , exert their specific action through binding to insulin receptors .
Receptor - bound insulin lowers blood glucose by facilitating cellular uptake of glucose into skeletal muscle and fat and by inhibiting the output of glucose from the liver .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis in the adipocyte , inhibits proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
Pharmacodynamics Insulin detemir is a soluble , long - acting basal human insulin analog with a relatively flat action profile .
The mean duration of action of insulin detemir ranged from 5 . 7 hours at the lowest dose to 23 . 2 hours at the highest dose ( sampling period 24 hours ) .
The prolonged action of LEVEMIR is mediated by the slow systemic absorption of insulin detemir molecules from the injection site due to strong self - association of the drug molecules and albumin binding .
Insulin detemir is distributed more slowly to peripheral target tissues since insulin detemir in the bloodstream is highly bound to albumin .
Figure 1 shows glucose infusion rate results from a glucose clamp study in patients with type 1 diabetes .
Figure 1 : Activity Profiles in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes in a 24 - hour Glucose Clamp Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 shows glucose infusion rate results from a 16 - hour glucose clamp study in patients with type 2 diabetes .
The clamp study was terminated at 16 hours according to protocol .
Figure 2 : Activity Profiles in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes in a 16 - hour Glucose Clamp Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] For doses in the interval of 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 U / kg , LEVEMIR exerts more than 50 % of its maximum effect from 3 to 4 hours up to approximately 14 hours after dose administration .
In a glucose clamp study , the overall glucodynamic effect ( AUCGIR 0 - 24 h ) [ mean mg / kg ± SD ( CV ) ] of four separate subcutaneous injections in the thigh was 1702 . 6 ± 489 mg / kg ( 29 % ) in the LEVEMIR group and 1922 . 8 ± 765 mg / kg ( 40 % ) for NPH .
The clinical significance of this difference has not been established .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption After subcutaneous injection of insulin detemir in healthy subjects and in patients with diabetes , insulin detemir serum concentrations indicated a slower , more prolonged absorption over 24 hours in comparison to NPH human insulin .
Maximum serum concentration ( Cmax ) is reached between 6 and 8 hours after administration .
The absolute bioavailability of insulin detemir is approximately 60 % .
Distribution and Elimination More than 98 % insulin detemir in the bloodstream is bound to albumin .
LEVEMIR has a small apparent volume of distribution of approximately 0 . 1 L / kg .
LEVEMIR , after subcutaneous administration , has a terminal half - life of 5 to7 hours depending on dose .
Special Populations Children and Adolescents - The pharmacokinetic properties of LEVEMIR were investigated in children ( 6 to 12 years ) and adolescents ( 13 to 17 years ) and adults with type 1 diabetes .
Similar to NPH human insulin , slightly higher plasma Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) and Cmax were observed in children by 10 % and 24 % , respectively , compared to adolescents and adults .
There was no difference in pharmacokinetics between adolescents and adults .
Geriatrics - In a clinical trial investigating differences in pharmacokinetics of a single subcutaneous dose of LEVEMIR in young ( 25 to 35 years ) versus elderly ( ≥ 68 years ) healthy subjects , higher insulin AUC levels ( up to 35 % ) were found in elderly subjects due to a reduced clearance .
As with other insulin preparations , LEVEMIR should always be titrated according to individual requirements .
Gender - In controlled clinical trials , no clinically relevant difference between genders is seen in pharmacokinetic parameters based on subgroup analyses .
Race - In two trials in healthy Japanese and Caucasian subjects , there were no clinically relevant differences seen in pharmacokinetic parameters .
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR were investigated in a clamp trial comparing patients with type 2 diabetes of Caucasian , African - American , and Latino origin .
Dose - response relationships were comparable for LEVEMIR in these three populations .
Renal impairment - Individuals with renal impairment showed no difference in pharmacokinetic parameters as compared to healthy volunteers .
However , literature reports have shown that clearance of human insulin is decreased in renally impaired patients .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with renal dysfunction ( see PRECAUTIONS , Renal Impairment ) .
Hepatic impairment - Individuals with severe hepatic dysfunction , without diabetes , were observed to have lower AUCs as compared to healthy volunteers .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including LEVEMIR , may be necessary in patients with hepatic dysfunction ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic Impairment ) .
Pregnancy - The effect of pregnancy on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR has not been studied ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
Smoking - The effect of smoking on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of LEVEMIR has not been studied .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of LEVEMIR given once - daily at bedtime or twice - daily ( before breakfast and at bedtime , before breakfast and with the evening meal , or at 12 - hour intervals ) was compared to that of once - daily or twice - daily NPH human insulin or once - daily insulin glargine in non - blinded , randomized , parallel studies of 6004 patients with diabetes ( 3724 with type 1 , and 2280 with type 2 ) .
In general , patients treated with LEVEMIR achieved levels of glycemic control similar to those treated with NPH human insulin or insulin glargine , as measured by glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) .
Type 1 Diabetes – Adult In one non - blinded clinical study ( Study A , n = 409 ) , adult patients with type 1 diabetes were randomized to treatment with either LEVEMIR at 12 - hour intervals , LEVEMIR morning and bedtime or NPH human insulin morning and bedtime .
Insulin aspart was also administered before each meal .
At 16 weeks of treatment , the combined LEVEMIR - treated patients had similar HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) reductions to NPH - treated patients ( Table 1 ) .
Differences in timing of LEVEMIR administration ( or flexible dosing ) had no effect on HbA1c , FPG , body weight , or risk of having hypoglycemic episodes .
Overall glycemic control achieved with LEVEMIR was compared to that achieved with insulin glargine in a randomized , non - blinded , clinical study ( Study B , n = 320 ) in which patients with type 1 diabetes were treated for 26 weeks with either twice - daily ( morning and bedtime ) LEVEMIR or once - daily ( bedtime ) insulin glargine .
Insulin aspart was administered before each meal .
LEVEMIR - treated patients had a decrease in HbA1c similar to that of insulin glargine - treated patients .
In a randomized , controlled clinical study ( Study C , n = 749 ) , patients with type 1 diabetes were treated with once - daily ( bedtime ) LEVEMIR or NPH human insulin , both in combination with human soluble insulin before each meal for 6 months .
LEVEMIR and NPH human insulin had a similar effect on HbA1c .
Table 1 : Efficacy and Insulin Dosage in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus - Adult Study A Treatment duration 16 weeks Treatment in combination with NovoLog ® ( insulin aspart ) LEVEMIR NPH Number of subjects treated 276 133 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 64 8 . 51 End of study adjusted mean 7 . 76 7 . 94 Mean change from baseline - 0 . 82 - 0 . 60 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) End of study adjusted mean 168 202 Mean change from baseline - 42 . 48 - 10 . 80 Daily Basal Insulin Dose ( U / kg ) Prestudy mean 0 . 36 0 . 39 End of study mean 0 . 49 0 . 45 Daily Bolus Insulin Dose ( U / kg ) Prestudy mean 0 . 40 0 . 40 End of study mean 0 . 38 0 . 38 Baseline values were included as covariates in an ANCOVA analysis .
Type 1 Diabetes - Pediatric In a non - blinded , randomized , controlled clinical study ( Study D , n = 347 ) , pediatric patients ( age range 6 to 17 ) with type 1 diabetes were treated for 26 weeks with a basal - bolus insulin regimen .
LEVEMIR and NPH human insulin were administered once - or twice - daily ( bedtime or morning and bedtime ) according to pretrial dose regimen .
Bolus insulin aspart was administered before each meal .
LEVEMIR - treated patients had a decrease in HbA1c similar to that of NPH human insulin .
Table 2 : Efficacy and Insulin Dosage in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus - Pediatric Study D Treatment duration 26 weeks Treatment in combination with NovoLog ® ( insulin aspart ) LEVEMIR NPH Number of subjects treated 232 115 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 75 8 . 77 End of study adjusted mean 8 . 02 7 . 93 Mean change from baseline - 0 . 72 - 0 . 80 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) End of study adjusted mean 151 . 92 172 . 44 Mean change from baseline - 45 . 00 - 19 . 98 Daily Basal Insulin Dose ( U / kg ) Prestudy mean 0 . 48 0 . 49 End of study mean 0 . 67 0 . 64 Daily Bolus Insulin Dose ( U / kg ) Prestudy mean 0 . 52 0 . 47 End of study mean 0 . 52 0 . 51 Type 2 Diabetes – Adult In a 24 - week , non - blinded , randomized , clinical study ( Study E , n = 476 ) , LEVEMIR administered twice - daily ( before breakfast and evening ) was compared to a similar regimen of NPH human insulin as part of a regimen of combination therapy with one or two of the following oral antidiabetes agents ( metformin , insulin secretagogue , or α – glucosidase inhibitor ) .
LEVEMIR and NPH similarly lowered HbA1c from baseline ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Efficacy and Insulin Dosage in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Study E Treatment duration 24 weeks Treatment in combination with OAD LEVEMIR NPH Number of subjects treated 237 239 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 61 8 . 51 End of study adjusted mean 6 . 58 6 . 46 Mean change from baseline - 1 . 84 - 1 . 90 Proportion achieving HbA1c ≤ 7 % 70 % 74 % Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) End of study adjusted mean 119 . 16 113 . 40 Mean change from baseline - 75 . 96 - 74 . 34 Daily Insulin Dose ( U / kg ) End of study mean 0 . 77 0 . 52 In a 22 - week , non - blinded , randomized , clinical study ( Study F , n = 395 ) in adults with Type 2 diabetes , LEVEMIR and NPH human insulin were given once - or twice - daily as part of a basal - bolus regimen .
As measured by HbA1c or FPG , LEVEMIR had efficacy similar to NPH human insulin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEVEMIR is indicated for once - or twice - daily subcutaneous administration for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus or adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who require basal ( long acting ) insulin for the control of hyperglycemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS LEVEMIR is contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to insulin detemir or one of its excipients .
WARNINGS Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse effect of insulin therapy , including LEVEMIR .
As with all insulins , the timing of hypoglycemia may differ among various insulin formulations .
Glucose monitoring is recommended for all patients with diabetes .
LEVEMIR is not to be used in insulin infusion pumps .
Any change of insulin dose should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Changes in insulin strength , timing of dosing , manufacturer , type ( e . g . , regular , NPH , or insulin analogs ) , species ( animal , human ) , or method of manufacture ( rDNA versus animal - source insulin ) may result in the need for a change in dosage .
Concomitant oral antidiabetic treatment may need to be adjusted .
Needles and Levemir FlexPen must not be shared .
PRECAUTIONS General Inadequate dosing or discontinuation of treatment may lead to hyperglycemia and , in patients with type 1 diabetes , diabetic ketoacidosis .
The first symptoms of hyperglycemia usually occur gradually over a period of hours or days .
They include nausea , vomiting , drowsiness , flushed dry skin , dry mouth , increased urination , thirst and loss of appetite as well as acetone breath .
Untreated hyperglycemic events are potentially fatal .
LEVEMIR is not intended for intravenous or intramuscular administration .
The prolonged duration of activity of insulin detemir is dependent on injection into subcutaneous tissue .
Intravenous administration of the usual subcutaneous dose could result in severe hypoglycemia .
Absorption after intramuscular administration is both faster and more extensive than absorption after subcutaneous administration .
LEVEMIR should not be diluted or mixed with any other insulin preparations ( see PRECAUTIONS , Mixing of Insulins ) .
Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Lipodystrophy and hypersensitivity are among potential clinical adverse effects associated with the use of all insulins .
As with all insulin preparations , the time course of LEVEMIR action may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and is dependent on site of injection , blood supply , temperature , and physical activity .
Adjustment of dosage of any insulin may be necessary if patients change their physical activity or their usual meal plan .
Hypoglycemia As with all insulin preparations , hypoglycemic reactions may be associated with the administration of LEVEMIR .
Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse effect of insulins .
Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced under certain conditions , such as long duration of diabetes , diabetic nerve disease , use of medications such as beta - blockers , or intensified diabetes control ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Such situations may result in severe hypoglycemia ( and , possibly , loss of consciousness ) prior to patients ’ awareness of hypoglycemia .
The time of occurrence of hypoglycemia depends on the action profile of the insulins used and may , therefore , change when the treatment regimen or timing of dosing is changed .
In patients being switched from other intermediate or long - acting insulin preparations to once - or twice - daily LEVEMIR , dosages can be prescribed on a unit - to - unit basis ; however , as with all insulin preparations , dose and timing of administration may need to be adjusted to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Changeover to LEVEMIR ) .
Renal Impairment As with other insulins , the requirements for LEVEMIR may need to be adjusted in patients with renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Hepatic Impairment As with other insulins , the requirements for LEVEMIR may need to be adjusted in patients with hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Injection Site and Allergic Reactions As with any insulin therapy , lipodystrophy may occur at the injection site and delay insulin absorption .
Other injection site reactions with insulin therapy may include redness , pain , itching , hives , swelling , and inflammation .
Continuous rotation of the injection site within a given area may help to reduce or prevent these reactions .
Reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks .
On rare occasions , injection site reactions may require discontinuation of LEVEMIR .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than insulin , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique .
Systemic allergy : Generalized allergy to insulin , which is less common but potentially more serious , may cause rash ( including pruritus ) over the whole body , shortness of breath , wheezing , reduction in blood pressure , rapid pulse , or sweating .
Severe cases of generalized allergy , including anaphylactic reaction , may be life - threatening .
Intercurrent Conditions Insulin requirements may be altered during intercurrent conditions such as illness , emotional disturbances , or other stresses .
Information for Patients LEVEMIR must only be used if the solution appears clear and colorless with no visible particles ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Preparation and Handling ) .
Patients should be informed about potential risks and advantages of LEVEMIR therapy , including the possible side effects .
Patients should be offered continued education and advice on insulin therapies , injection technique , life - style management , regular glucose monitoring , periodic glycosylated hemoglobin testing , recognition and management of hypo - and hyperglycemia , adherence to meal planning , complications of insulin therapy , timing of dosage , instruction for use of injection devices and proper storage of insulin .
Patients should be informed that frequent , patient - performed blood glucose measurements are needed to achieve effective glycemic control to avoid both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia .
Patients must be instructed on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , or skipped meals .
Refer patients to the LEVEMIR " Patient Information " circular for additional information .
As with all patients who have diabetes , the ability to concentrate and / or react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia .
Patients with diabetes should be advised to inform their health care professional if they are pregnant or are contemplating pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
Laboratory Tests As with all insulin therapy , the therapeutic response to LEVEMIR should be monitored by periodic blood glucose tests .
Periodic measurement of HbA1c is recommended for the monitoring of long - term glycemic control .
Drug Interactions A number of substances affect glucose metabolism and may require insulin dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring .
The following are examples of substances that may reduce the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulin : corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , albuterol , terbutaline ) , isoniazid , phenothiazine derivatives , somatropin , thyroid hormones , estrogens , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) .
The following are examples of substances that may increase the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulin and susceptibility to hypoglycemia : oral antidiabetic drugs , ACE inhibitors , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , MAO inhibitors , propoxyphene , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
Beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and alcohol may either potentiate or weaken the blood - glucose - lowering effect of insulin .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
In addition , under the influence of sympatholytic medicinal products such as beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine , the signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
The results of in - vitro and in - vivo protein binding studies demonstrate that there is no clinically relevant interaction between insulin detemir and fatty acids or other protein bound drugs .
Mixing of Insulins If LEVEMIR is mixed with other insulin preparations , the profile of action of one or both individual components may change .
Mixing LEVEMIR with insulin aspart , a rapid acting insulin analog , resulted in about 40 % reduction in AUC ( 0 - 2 h ) and Cmax for insulin aspart compared to separate injections when the ratio of insulin aspart to LEVEMIR was less than 50 % .
LEVEMIR should NOT be mixed or diluted with any other insulin preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
Insulin detemir tested negative for genotoxic potential in the in - vitro reverse mutation study in bacteria , human peripheral blood lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , and the in - vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Pregnancy Preganancy Category C Teratogenic effects In a fertility and embryonic development study , insulin detemir was administered to female rats before mating , during mating , and throughout pregnancy at doses up to 300 nmol / kg / day ( 3 times the recommended human dose , based on plasma Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) ratio ) .
Doses of 150 and 300 nmol / kg / day produced numbers of litters with visceral anomalies .
Doses up to 900 nmol / kg / day ( approximately 135 times the recommended human dose based on AUC ratio ) were given to rabbits during organogenesis .
Drug - dose related increases in the incidence of fetuses with gall bladder abnormalities such as small , bilobed , bifurcated and missing gall bladders were observed at a dose of 900 nmol / kg / day .
The rat and rabbit embryofetal development studies that included concurrent human insulin control groups indicated that insulin detemir and human insulin had similar effects regarding embryotoxicity and teratogenicity .
Nursing mothers It is unknown whether LEVEMIR is excreted in significant amounts in human milk .
For this reason , caution should be exercised when LEVEMIR is administered to a nursing mother .
Patients with diabetes who are lactating may require adjustments in insulin dose , meal plan , or both .
Pediatric use In a controlled clinical study , HbA1c concentrations and rates of hypoglycemia were similar among patients treated with LEVEMIR and patients treated with NPH human insulin .
Geriatric use Of the total number of subjects in intermediate and long - term clinical studies of LEVEMIR , 85 ( type 1 studies ) and 363 ( type 2 studies ) were 65 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In elderly patients with diabetes , the initial dosing , dose increments , and maintenance dosage should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse events commonly associated with human insulin therapy include the following : Body as Whole : allergic reactions ( see PRECAUTIONS , Allergy ) .
Skin and Appendages : lipodystrophy , pruritus , rash .
Mild injection site reactions occurred more frequently with LEVEMIR than with NPH human insulin and usually resolved in a few days to a few weeks ( see PRECAUTIONS , Allergy ) .
Other : Hypoglycemia : ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
In trials of up to 6 months duration in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes , the incidence of severe hypoglycemia with LEVEMIR was comparable to the incidence with NPH , and , as expected , greater overall in patients with type 1 diabetes ( Table 4 ) .
Weight gain : In trials of up to 6 months duration in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes , LEVEMIR was associated with somewhat less weight gain than NPH ( Table 4 ) .
Whether these observed differences represent true differences in the effects of LEVEMIR and NPH insulin is not known , since these trials were not blinded and the protocols ( e . g . , diet and exercise instructions and monitoring ) were not specifically directed at exploring hypotheses related to weight effects of the treatments compared .
The clinical significance of the observed differences has not been established .
Table 4 : Safety Information on Clinical Studies Weight ( kg ) Hypoglycemia ( events / subject / month ) Treatment # of subjects Baseline End of treatment Major Minor Type 1 Study A LEVEMIR N = 276 75 . 0 75 . 1 0 . 045 2 . 184 NPH N = 133 75 . 7 76 . 4 0 . 035 3 . 063 Study C LEVEMIR N = 492 76 . 5 76 . 3 0 . 029 2 . 397 NPH N = 257 76 . 1 76 . 5 0 . 027 2 . 564 Study D Pediatric LEVEMIR N = 232 N / A N / A 0 . 076 2 . 677 NPH N = 115 N / A N / A 0 . 083 3 . 203 Type 2 Study E LEVEMIR N = 237 82 . 7 83 . 7 0 . 001 0 . 306 NPH N = 239 82 . 4 85 . 2 0 . 006 0 . 595 Study F LEVEMIR N = 195 81 . 8 82 . 3 0 . 003 0 . 193 NPH N = 200 79 . 6 80 . 9 0 . 006 0 . 235 OVERDOSAGE Hypoglycemia may occur as a result of an excess of insulin relative to food intake , energy expenditure , or both .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
After apparent clinical recovery from hypoglycemia , continued observation and additional carbohydrate intake may be necessary to avoid reoccurrence of hypoglycemia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION LEVEMIR can be administered once - or twice - daily .
The dose of LEVEMIR should be adjusted according to blood glucose measurements .
The dosage of LEVEMIR should be individualized based on the physician ’ s advice , in accordance with the needs of the patient .
• For patients treated with Levemir once - daily , the dose should be administered with the evening meal or at bedtime .
• For patients who require twice - daily dosing for effective blood glucose control , the evening dose can be administered either with the evening meal , at bedtime , or 12 hours after the morning dose .
LEVEMIR should be administered by subcutaneous injection in the thigh , abdominal wall , or upper arm .
Injection sites should be rotated within the same region .
As with all insulins , the duration of action will vary according to the dose , injection site , blood flow , temperature , and level of physical activity .
Dose Determination for LEVEMIR • For patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes on basal - bolus treatment , changing the basal insulin to LEVEMIR can be done on a unit - to - unit basis .
The dose of LEVEMIR should then be adjusted to achieve glycemic targets .
In some patients with type 2 diabetes , more LEVEMIR may be required than NPH insulin .
In a clinical study , the mean dose at end of treatment was 0 . 77 U / kg for LEVEMIR and 0 . 52 IU / kg for NPH human insulin ( see Table 3 ) .
• For patients currently receiving only basal insulin , changing the basal insulin to LEVEMIR can be done on a unit - to - unit basis .
• For insulin - naïve patients with type 2 diabetes who are inadequately controlled on oral antidiabetic drugs , LEVEMIR should be started at a dose of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 U / kg once - daily in the evening or 10 units once - or twice - daily , and the dose adjusted to achieve glycemic targets .
• As with all insulins , close glucose monitoring is recommended during the transition and in the initial weeks thereafter .
Dose and timing of concurrent short - acting insulins or other concomitant antidiabetic treatment may need to be adjusted .
Preparation and Handling LEVEMIR should be inspected visually prior to administration and should only be used if the solution appears clear and colorless .
LEVEMIR should not be mixed or diluted with any other insulin preparations .
After each injection , patients must remove the needle without recapping and dispose of it in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , or lancets should be placed in “ sharps ” containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
HOW SUPPLIED LEVEMIR is available in the following package sizes : each presentation containing 100 Units of insulin detemir per mL ( U - 100 ) .
10 mL vial NDC 0169 - 3687 - 12 3 mL PenFill ® cartridges * NDC 0169 - 3305 - 11 3 mL InnoLet ® NDC 0169 - 2312 - 11 3 mL FlexPen ® NDC 0169 - 6439 - 10 * LEVEMIR PenFill ® cartridges are for use with Novo Nordisk 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices and NovoFine ® disposable needles .
RECOMMENDED STORAGE Unused LEVEMIR should be stored between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not use LEVEMIR if it has been frozen .
Vials : After initial use , vials should be stored in a refrigerator , never in a freezer .
If refrigeration is not possible , the in - use vial can be kept unrefrigerated at room temperature , below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) , for up to 42 days , as long as it is kept as cool as possible and away from direct heat and light .
Unpunctured vials can be used until the expiration date printed on the label if they are stored in a refrigerator .
Keep unused vials in the carton so they will stay clean and protected from light .
PenFill ® cartridges , FlexPen ® or InnoLet ® : After initial use , a cartridge ( PenFill ® ) or a prefilled syringe ( including FlexPen ® or InnoLet ® ) may be used for up to 42 days if it is kept at room temperature , below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
In - use cartridges and prefilled syringes in - use must NOT be stored in a refrigerator and must NOT be stored with the needle in place .
Keep all cartridges and prefilled syringes away from direct heat and sunlight .
Not in - use ( unopened ) LEVEMIR PenFill ® , FlexPen ® or InnoLet ® can be used until the expiration date printed on the label if they are stored in a refrigerator .
Keep unused cartridges and prefilled syringes in the carton so they will stay clean and protected from light .
The storage conditions are summarized in the following table : Not in - use ( unopened ) Room Temperature ( below 30 ° C ) Not in - use ( unopened ) Refrigerated In - use ( opened ) Room Temperature ( below 30 ° C ) 10 mL vial 42 days Until expiration date 42 days refrigerated / room temperature 3 mL PenFill ® cartridges 42 days Until expiration date 42 days ( Do not refrigerate ) 3 mL InnoLet ® 42 days Until expiration date 42 days ( Do not refrigerate ) 3 mL FlexPen ® 42 days Until expiration date 42 days ( Do not refrigerate ) Date of issue : July 15 , 2009 Version : 5 Novo Nordisk ® , Levemir ® , NovoLog ® , FlexPen ® , InnoLet ® , PenFill ® , and NovoFine ® are registered trademarks owned by Novo Nordisk A / S .
© 2005 / 2009 Novo Nordisk Inc .
Levemir ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 ; 5 , 866 , 538 ; 6 , 011 , 007 ; 6 , 869 , 930 and other patents pending .
FlexPen ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 004 , 297 ; 6 , 235 , 004 ; 6 , 582 , 404 and other patents pending .
Manufactured for : Novo Nordisk Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 www . novonordisk - us . com Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark PATIENT INFORMATION Levemir ® ( LEV – uh - mere ) ( insulin detemir [ rDNA origin ] injection ) Important : Know your insulin .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless told to do so by your healthcare provider .
The amount of insulin you take as well as the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take a different type of insulin .
Make sure you know the type and strength of insulin prescribed for you .
Read the Patient Information that comes with Levemir before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure that you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
What is Levemir ?
Levemir is a man - made long - acting insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
Who should not use Levemir ?
Do not take Levemir if : • Your blood sugar is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
• You are allergic to anything in Levemir .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Levemir .
Check with your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
Medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of Levemir .
• if you are pregnant or breast - feeding .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
Levemir has not been studied in pregnant or nursing women .
• about all medicines you take , including prescriptions and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Your Levemir dose may change if you take other medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Levemir ?
Only use Levemir if it appears clear and colorless .
There may be air bubbles .
This is normal .
If it looks cloudy , thickened , or colored , or if it contains solid particles do not use it and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
Levemir comes in : • 10 mL vials ( small bottles ) for use with a syringe • 3 mL PenFill ® cartridges for use with the Novo Nordisk 3 mL PenFill cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices and NovoFine ® disposable needles .
The cartridge delivery device can be used with a NovoPen ® 3 PenMate ® • 3 mL Levemir FlexPen ® • 3 mL Levemir InnoLet Read the instructions for use that come with your Levemir product .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject Levemir before you start taking it .
• Take Levemir exactly as prescribed .
• Levemir is a long - acting insulin .
The effect of Levemir may last up to 24 hours after injection .
• Inject Levemir into the skin of your stomach area , upper arms , or thighs .
Levemir may affect your blood sugar levels sooner if you inject it into the skin of your stomach area or upper arm .
Never inject Levemir into a vein or into a muscle .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the chosen area ( for example , stomach or upper arm ) with each dose .
Do not inject into the exact same spot for each injection .
• If you take too much Levemir , your blood sugar may fall low ( hypoglycemia ) .
You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and you could pass out ( become unconscious ) .
If you pass out you will need help from another person or emergency medical services right away , and will need treatment with a glucagon injection or treatment at a hospital .
See “ What are the possible side effects of Levemir ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• If you forget to take your dose of Levemir , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar which may include : • increased thirst • a hard time breathing • frequent urination • fruity smell on the breath • drowsiness • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine • loss of appetite • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain • Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
• Never mix Levemir with other insulin products .
• Never use Levemir in an insulin pump .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • illness • change in diet • stress • change in physical activity or exercise • other medicines you take What should I avoid while using Levemir ?
• Alcohol .
Alcohol , including beer and wine , may affect your blood sugar when you take Levemir .
• Driving and operating machinery .
You may have difficulty concentrating or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright to drive if you often have : • • low blood sugar • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar What are the possible side effects of Levemir ?
• low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • sweating • trouble concentrating or confusion • dizziness or lightheadedness • blurred vision • shakiness • slurred speech • hunger • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • fast heart beat • headache • tingling of lips and tongue Severe low blood sugar can cause unconsciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , and death .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
• Serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you develop a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need to stop using Levemir and use a different insulin .
Do not inject insulin into skin that is red , swollen , or itchy .
• Skin thickens or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
Change ( rotate ) where you inject your insulin to help to prevent these skin changes from happening .
Do not inject insulin into this type of skin .
• Swelling of your hands and feet .
• Vision changes • Low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) These are not all of the possible side effects from Levemir .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Levemir ?
All Unopened Levemir : • Keep all unopened Levemir in the refrigerator between 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use Levemir if it has been frozen .
• Keep unopened Levemir in the carton to protect from light .
Levemir in use : • Vials • • Keep in the refrigerator or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 42 days .
• Keep vials away from direct heat or light .
• Throw away an opened vial after 42 days of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the Levemir label , if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
• Levemir FlexPen • • Keep at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 42 days .
• Do not store a Levemir FlexPen that you are using in the refrigerator .
• Keep Levemir FlexPen away from direct heat or light .
• Throw away a used Levemir FlexPen after 42 days , even if there is insulin left in the syringe .
General advice about Levemir Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Levemir for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Levemir to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Levemir .
If you would like more information about Levemir or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Levemir that is written for healthcare professionals .
Call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or visit www . novonordisk - us . com for more information .
Helpful information for people with diabetes is published by the American Diabetes Association , 1701 N Beauregard Street , Alexandria , VA 22311 and on www . diabetes . org .
Levemir ingredients include : • Insulin detemir • Zinc • Glycerol • Disodium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate • Phenol • Sodium chloride • Water for injection • Metacresol • Hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide All Levemir vials and Levemir FlexPen are latex free .
Date of Issue : May 22 , 2009 Version : 4 Levemir ® , PenFill ® , FlexPen ® , NovoPen ® , NovoFine ® , PenMate ® , are trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
Levemir ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 5 , 750 , 497 , 5 , 866 , 538 , 6 , 011 , 007 , 6 , 869 , 930 , and other patents pending .
FlexPen ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 582 , 404 , 6 , 004 , 297 , 6 , 235 , 004 , and other patents pending .
PenFill ® is covered by US Patent Nos . 6 , 126 , 646 , 5 , 693 , 027 , DES 347894 , and other patents pending .
© 2005 - 2009 Novo Nordisk Inc .
Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Levemir ® contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West , Princeton , New Jersey 08540 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Levemir ® 10 mL vial ( 100 units / mL , U - 100 ) Levemir ® 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge ( 100 units / mL , U - 100 ) How should I prepare and deliver the injection using different delivery devices ?
Using the 10 mL vial : • At your first use , remove the tamper - resistant cap from the vial .
If the cap has already been removed , do not use this vial and return it to your pharmacy .
• Wipe the rubber membrane with an alcohol swab .
• Do not roll or shake the vial .
Vigorous shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or froth , which could cause dosage errors .
The insulin should be used only if it is clear and colorless .
• Pull back the plunger on your syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
• Push the needle through the rubber membrane into the vial .
• Push the plunger all the way in .
This inserts air into the vial .
• Turn the vial and syringe upside down together and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
• If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the needle .
Then slowly push the plunger to the correct unit marking .
• Lift the vial off the syringe .
• Inject right away .
• The syringe and vial should be disposed of properly without recapping the needle .
After each injection , patients must remove the needle without recapping and dispose of it in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , or lancets should be placed in sharps containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
Using the LEVEMIR 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge in 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge delivery devices * ( * see 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible delivery devices section ) : • Read the instruction manuals for the 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible delivery device * before the device is used .
• The insulin should be used only if it is clear and colorless .
Insert the PenFill ® cartridge into the 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible delivery device * .
• Place the needle onto the 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible delivery device * immediately before use • Airshots should be done prior to each injection .
Directions for performing an airshot and setting the dose are provided in your insulin delivery device instruction manual .
• Discard needle after each dose .
The needle should not be recapped to avoid needlesticks .
After each injection , patients must remove the needle without recapping and dispose of it in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , or lancets should be placed in sharps containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
After the first use of PenFill ® cartridge : • Airshots should be done prior to each injection .
Directions for performing an airshot and setting the dose are provided in your insulin delivery device instruction manual .
• To avoid needle sticks , do not recap the needle .
Throw away the needle safely after each injection How should I inject LEVEMIR insulin with a syringe or 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible delivery device * ?
• Pinch your skin between two fingers , push the needle into the skinfold , and push the plunger to inject the insulin under your skin .
The needle should be perpendicular to the skin .
This means the needle will be straight in .
• Keep the needle under your skin for at least 6 seconds to make sure you have injected all the insulin .
• If blood appears after you pull the needle from your skin , press the injection site lightly with a finger .
Do not rub the area .
* LEVEMIR PenFill ® cartridges are for use with Novo Nordisk 3 mL PenFill ® cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices and NovoFine ® disposable needles .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Levemir ® 3 mL InnoLet ( 100 units / mL , U - 100 ) LEVEMIR InnoLet ( 3 mL ) directions for use LEVEMIR InnoLet is a disposable dial - a - dose insulin delivery system able to deliver 1 to a maximum of 50 units .
The dose can be adjusted in increments of 1 unit .
LEVEMIR InnoLet is designed for use with NovoFine ® single - use needles .
LEVEMIR InnoLet is not recommended for the blind or severely visually impaired patients without the assistance of a sighted individual trained in the proper use of the product .
Please read and follow these instructions completely each time you use this device .
If you do not follow these instructions completely , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Every time you give an injection using LEVEMIR InnoLet : • Use a new needle • Prime to make sure the InnoLet is ready to dose • Make sure you got your full dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure of Innolet and Needles 1 .
PREPARING THE LEVEMIR INNOLET a . Pull off the cap .
b . Wipe the rubber membrane with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 A : Attaching needle to Innolet c . Remove the protective tab from the disposable needle and screw the needle onto the InnoLet ( see diagram 1 A ) .
Never place a disposable needle on your InnoLet until you are ready to give an injection .
Remove the needle from InnoLet immediately after the use .
If the needle is not removed , some liquid may leak from the LEVEMIR InnoLet .
d . Giving the air shot before each injection Small amounts of air may collect in the needle and insulin reservoir during normal use .
To avoid injecting air and to ensure proper dosing , dial 2 units by turning the dose selector clockwise .
Hold the LEVEMIR InnoLet with the needle pointing up and tap the LEVEMIR InnoLet gently with your finger so any air bubbles collect in the top of the reservoir .
Remove both the plastic outer and inner needle cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 B : Doing the air shot e . With the needle pointing up , press the push button as far as it will go and the dose selector returns to zero .
See if a drop of insulin appears at the needle tip ( see Figure 1 B ) .
If not , repeat the procedure until insulin appears .
Before the first use of LEVEMIR InnoLet , you may need to perform up to 6 airshots to get a droplet of insulin at the needle tip .
If you need to make more than 6 airshots , do not use the LEVEMIR InnoLet , and contact Novo Nordisk ® at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
A small air bubble may remain but it will not be injected because the operating mechanism prevents the reservoir from being completely emptied .
2 .
SETTING THE DOSE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Setting the dose Always check that the push button is fully depressed and the dose selector is set at 0 .
Hold the LEVEMIR InnoLet ® in front of you and dial the dose selector clockwise to set the required dose .
Do not put your hand over the push button when dialing the dose .
If the button is not allowed to rise freely , insulin will be pushed out of the needle .
You will hear a click for every single unit dialed .
Do not rely on the clicking sound as a means for setting your dose .
If you have set a wrong dose , simply dial the dose selector forward or backwards until the right number of dose has been set .
50 units is the maximum dose .
3 .
GIVING THE INJECTION Use the injection technique recommended by your doctor or health care professionals .
a . Check that you have set the proper dose and depress the push button as far as it will go .
Make sure not to block the dose selector while injecting , as the dose selector must be allowed to return to zero when you press the push button .
When depressing the push button , you may hear a clicking sound .
Do not rely on this clicking sound as a means of confirming delivery of your dose .
After making the injection , unscrew the needle and discard appropriately .
After each injection , you must remove the needle before replacing the device cap and dispose of the needle in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , or lancets should be placed in “ sharps ” containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
It is important that you use a new needle for each injection .
Health care professionals , relatives , and other caregivers , should follow general precautionary measures for removal and disposal of needles to eliminate the risk of unintended needlestick .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Giving the injection 4 .
LATER ( SUBSEQUENT ) INJECTIONS Always check that the push button is fully depressed before using the LEVEMIR InnoLet ® again .
If not , turn the dose selector until the push button is completely down .
Then proceed as stated in steps 1 - 3 .
The numbers on the insulin reservoir can be used to estimate the amount of insulin left in the LEVEMIR InnoLet .
Do not use these numbers to measure the insulin dose .
You cannot set a dose greater than the number of units remaining in the reservoir .
5 .
FUNCTION CHECK If you think that your LEVEMIR InnoLet is not working properly , follow this procedure : a . Screw on a new NovoFine needle b . Perform air shot as described in 1 .
PREPARING THE LEVEMIR INNOLET ® , steps ( d ) through ( e ) and Figure 1 B c . Put the outer needle cap onto the needle d . Dispense 20 units into the needle cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure of doing the function check The insulin will fill the lower part of the cap ( as shown in the figure above ) .
If the LEVEMIR InnoLet has released too much or too little insulin , repeat the test .
If it happens again , do not use your LEVEMIR InnoLet and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
6 .
IMPORTANT NOTES • If you need to perform more than 6 air shots before the first use of the disposable LEVEMIR InnoLet to get a droplet of insulin at the needle tip , do not use your LEVEMIR InnoLet and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
• Remember to perform an air shot before each injection .
See figure 1 B .
• Do not drop , damage , or crush the disposable LEVEMIR InnoLet .
• Remember to keep the disposable LEVEMIR InnoLet with you .
Don ’ t leave it in a car or other location where it can get too hot or too cold .
• LEVEMIR InnoLet is not supplied with needles .
NovoFine ® disposable needles are designed and recommended for use with Novo Nordisk ® insulin delivery devices , including LEVEMIR InnoLet .
• Never place a disposable needle on the LEVEMIR InnoLet until you are ready to use it .
Remove the needle right after the use without recapping .
• Discard the needle after each injection .
After each injection , remove the needle before replacing the device cap and dispose the needle in a puncture - resistant container .
Used syringes , needles , or lancets should be placed in “ sharps ” containers ( such as red biohazard containers ) , hard plastic containers ( such as detergent bottles ) , or metal containers ( such as an empty coffee can ) .
Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly .
• Throw away the empty LEVEMIR InnoLet without the needle attached .
• Always carry an extra LEVEMIR InnoLet with you in case your LEVEMIR InnoLet you are using is damaged or lost .
• To avoid possible transmission of disease , do not share your LEVEMIR InnoLet with anyone , even if you attach a new needle .
• Novo Nordisk is not responsible for harm due to using this insulin delivery system with products not recommended by Novo Nordisk .
• Keep this disposable LEVEMIR InnoLet out of the reach of children .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE LEVEMIR ® FlexPen ® Introduction Please read the following instructions carefully before using your Levemir ® FlexPen ® .
Levemir FlexPen is a disposable dial - a - dose insulin pen .
You can select doses from 1 to 60 units in increments of 1 unit .
Levemir FlexPen is designed to be used with NovoFine ® needles .
Δ Levemir FlexPen should not be used by people who are blind or have severe visual problems without the help of a person who has good eyesight and who is trained to use the Levemir FlexPen the right way .
Getting ready Make sure you have the following items : • Levemir FlexPen • New NovoFine needle • Alcohol swab [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure of Levemir FlexPen and Needle Preparing your Levemir FlexPen Wash your hands with soap and water .
Before you start to prepare your injection , check the label to make sure that you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you take more than 1 type of insulin .
Levemir should look clear .
A . Pull off the pen cap ( see diagram A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram A : Pull the cap off the FlexPen Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
B . Attaching the needle Remove the protective tab from a disposable needle .
Screw the needle tightly onto your FlexPen .
It is important that the needle is put on straight ( see diagram B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram B : Attaching the needle to FlexPen Never place a disposable needle on your Levemir FlexPen until you are ready to take your injection .
C . Pull off the big outer needle cap ( see diagram C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram C : Removing the big outer needle cap D . Pull off the inner needle cap and dispose of it ( see diagram D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram D : Removing the inner needle cap Δ Always use a new needle for each injection to help ensure sterility and prevent blocked needles .
Δ Be careful not to bend or damage the needle before use .
Δ To reduce the risk of unexpected needle sticks , never put the inner needle cap back on the needle .
Giving the airshot before each injection : Before each injection small amounts of air may collect in the cartridge during normal use .
To avoid injecting air and to ensure proper dosing : E . Turn the dose selector to select 2 units ( see diagram E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram E : Selecting the dose for the air shot F . Hold your Levemir FlexPen with the needle pointing up .
Tap the cartridge gently with your finger a few times to make any air bubbles collect at the top of the cartridge ( see diagram F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram F : Tap the cartridge to move air to top G . Keep the needle pointing upwards , press the push - button all the way in ( see diagram G ) .
The dose selector returns to 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram G : Point needle upwards and press the push - button A drop of insulin should appear at the needle tip .
If not , change the needle and repeat the procedure no more than 6 times .
If you do not see a drop of insulin after 6 times , do not use the Levemir FlexPen and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
A small air bubble may remain at the needle tip , but it will not be injected .
Selecting your dose Check and make sure that the dose selector is set at 0 .
H . Turn the dose selector to the number of units you need to inject .
The pointer should line up with your dose .
The dose can be corrected either up or down by turning the dose selector in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the pointer ( see diagram H ) .
When turning the dose selector , be careful not to press the push - button as insulin will come out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram H : Selecting your dose I . Insert the needle into your skin .
Inject the dose by pressing the push - button all the way in until the 0 lines up with the pointer ( see diagram I ) .
Be careful only to push the button when injecting .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram I : Giving the injection J . Keep the needle in the skin for at least 6 seconds , and keep the push - button pressed all the way in until the needle has been pulled out from the skin ( see diagram J ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram J : Keep needle in skin for 6 seconds This will make sure that the full dose has been given .
You may see a drop of Levemir at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If blood appears after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a finger .
Do not rub the area .
After the injection Do not recap the needle .
Recapping can lead to a needle stick injury .
Remove the needle from the Levemir FlexPen after each injection .
This helps to prevent infection , leakage of insulin , and will help to make sure you inject the right dose of insulin .
The Levemir FlexPen prevents the cartridge from being completely emptied .
It is designed to deliver 300 units .
Δ Put the needle and any empty Levemir FlexPen or any used Levemir FlexPen still containing insulin in a sharps container or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw top such as a detergent bottle or empty coffee can .
These containers should be sealed and thrown away the right way .
Check with your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be local or state laws about how to throw away used needles and syringes .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycling bins .
K . Put the pen cap on the Levemir FlexPen and store the Levemir FlexPen without the needle attached ( see diagram K ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram K : Replacing the pen cap Function Check If your Levemir FlexPen is not working the right way , follow the steps below : L . • Screw on a new NovoFine needle .
• Remove the big outer needle cap and the inner needle cap .
• Do an airshot as described in “ Giving the airshot before each injection ” .
• Put the big outer needle cap onto the needle .
Do not put on the inner needle cap .
• Turn the dose selector so the dose indicator window shows 20 units .
• Hold the Levemir FlexPen so the needle is pointing down .
• Press the push - button all the way in .
The insulin should fill the lower part of the big outer needle cap ( see diagram L ) .
If Levemir FlexPen has released too much or too little insulin , do the function check again .
If the same problem happens again , do not use your Levemir FlexPen and contact Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagram L : Figure of function check Maintenance Your FlexPen is designed to work accurately and safely .
It must be handled with care .
Avoid dropping your FlexPen as it may damage it .
If you are concerned that your FlexPen is damaged , use a new one .
You can clean the outside of your FlexPen by wiping it with a damp cloth .
Do not soak or wash your FlexPen as it may damage it .
Do not refill your FlexPen .
Δ Remove the needle from the Levemir FlexPen after each injection .
This helps to ensure sterility , prevent leakage of insulin , and will help to make sure you inject the right dose of insulin for future injections .
Δ Be careful when handling used needles to avoid needle sticks and transfer of infectious diseases .
Δ Keep your Levemir FlexPen and needles out of the reach of children .
Δ Use Levemir FlexPen as directed to treat your diabetes .
Needles and Levemir FlexPen must not be shared .
Δ Always use a new needle for each injection .
Δ Novo Nordisk is not responsible for harm due to using this insulin pen with products not recommended by Novo Nordisk .
Δ As a precautionary measure , always carry a spare insulin delivery device in case your Levemir FlexPen is lost or damaged .
Δ Remember to keep the disposable Levemir FlexPen with you .
Do not leave it in a car or other location where it can get too hot or too cold .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levemir ® Insulin detemir ( rDNA origin ) injection NDC 68258 - 8977 - 01 List 368712 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) 10 mL For subcutaneous use only Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
