WARNING : RISK FOR ANAPHYLACTIC - TYPE REACTIONS Anaphylactic - type reactions , including fatalities , have been reported following the parenteral administration of iron dextran injection .
• Have resuscitation equipment and personnel trained in the detection and treatment of anaphylactic - type reactions readily available during INFeD administration .
• Administer a test INFeD dose prior to the first therapeutic dose .
If no signs or symptoms of anaphylactic - type reactions follow the test dose , administer the full therapeutic INFeD dose .
• During all INFeD administrations , observe for signs or symptoms of anaphylactic - type reactions .
Fatal reactions have been reported following the test dose of iron dextran injection .
Fatal reactions have also occurred in situations where the test dose was tolerated .
• Use INFeD only in patients in whom clinical and laboratory investigations have established an iron deficient state not amenable to oral iron therapy .
• Patients with a history of drug allergy or multiple drug allergies may be at increased risk of anaphylactic - type reactions to INFeD .
WARNING : RISK FOR ANAPHYLACTIC - TYPE REACTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Anaphylactic - type reactions , including fatalities , have been reported following the parenteral administration of iron dextran injection .
( 5 . 1 ) • Have resuscitation equipment and personnel trained in the detection and treatment of anaphylactic - type reactions readily available during INFeD administration .
• Administer a test INFeD dose prior to the first therapeutic dose .
If no signs or symptoms of anaphylactic - type reactions follow the test dose , administer the full therapeutic INFeD dose .
• During all INFeD administrations , observe for signs or symptoms of anaphylactic - type reactions .
Fatal reactions have been reported following the test dose of iron dextran injection .
Fatal reactions have also occurred in situations where the test dose was tolerated .
• Use INFeD only in patients in whom clinical and laboratory investigations have established an iron deficient state not amenable to oral iron therapy .
• Patients with a history of drug allergy or multiple drug allergies may be at increased risk of anaphylactic - type reactions to INFeD .
( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INFeD is indicated for treatment of adult and pediatric patients of age 4 months and older with documented iron deficiency who have intolerance to oral iron or have had an unsatisfactory response to oral iron .
INFeD , an iron replacement product , is indicated for treatment of adult and pediatric patients of age 4 months and older with documented iron deficiency who have intolerance to oral iron or an unsatisfactory response to oral iron .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See Full Prescribing Information for weight - based dosing and administration information .
( 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 1 Important Pre - Treatment Information Discontinue administration of any iron - containing products prior to administration of INFeD .
Assess baseline hematologic ( hemoglobin and hematocrit ) and iron storage parameters ( serum iron , total iron binding capacity , and percent saturation of transferrin ) to monitor response to therapy .
Administer a test dose of INFeD prior to administration of therapeutic dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Iron Deficiency Anemia Calculate the INFeD dose based upon Table 1 and formulas below .
Continue INFeD until hemoglobin is within the normal range and iron stores are replete .
Administer daily doses of no more than 2 mL of INFeD until the total required dose is administered .
Monitor response to therapy by evaluating hematologic parameters ( hemoglobin and hematocrit ) and iron storage parameters ( serum iron , total iron binding capacity , and percent saturation of transferrin ) .
Iron storage parameters may improve prior to hematologic parameters .
Serum ferritin may not be an accurate measure of body iron stores in patients on chronic dialysis .
Table 1 : Total INFeD Requirement for Hemoglobin Restoration and Iron Stores Replacement in Patients with Iron Deficiency Anemia * PATIENT LEANBODY WEIGHT Recommended Volume ( mL ) ofINFeDBasedonObservedHemoglobin kg lb 3 ( g / dL ) 4 ( g / dL ) 5 ( g / dL ) 6 ( g / dL ) 7 ( g / dL ) 8 ( g / dL ) 9 ( g / dL ) 10 ( g / dL ) 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 110 121 132 143 154 165 176 187 198 209 220 231 242 253 264 3 7 10 16 20 23 27 31 35 39 43 47 51 55 59 63 66 70 74 78 82 86 90 94 3 6 9 15 18 22 26 29 33 37 41 44 48 52 55 59 63 66 70 74 77 81 85 88 3 6 9 14 17 21 24 28 31 35 38 42 45 49 52 55 59 62 66 69 73 76 80 83 3 5 8 13 16 19 23 26 29 32 36 39 42 45 49 52 55 58 62 65 68 71 75 78 2 5 7 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45 48 51 54 57 60 63 67 70 73 2 4 7 11 14 17 20 22 25 28 31 34 36 39 42 45 48 50 53 56 59 62 64 67 2 4 6 10 13 15 18 21 23 26 28 31 34 36 39 41 44 46 49 52 54 57 59 62 2 3 5 9 12 14 17 19 21 24 26 28 31 33 35 38 40 42 45 47 50 52 54 57 * Table values were calculated based on a normal adult hemoglobin of 14 . 8 g / dL for patients with body weights greater than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) and a hemoglobin of 12 g / dL for patients with body weights less than or equal to 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) .
Alternatively , the total dose may be calculated using the formulas below : Adults and Children over 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) Dose ( mL ) = 0 . 0442 ( Desired Hb - Observed Hb ) x LBW + ( 0 . 26 x LBW ) Based on : • Desired Hb = the target hemoglobin in g / dL [ Normal hemoglobin ( males and females ) for body weight over 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) is 14 . 8 g / dL . ]
• Observed Hb = the patient ’ s current hemoglobin in g / dL • LBW = Lean body weight in kg [ A patient ’ s lean body weight ( or actual body weight if less than lean body weight ) should be utilized when determining dosage . ]
• For males : LBW = 50 kg + 2 . 3 kg for each inch of patient ’ s height over 5 feet • For females : LBW = 45 . 5 kg + 2 . 3 kg for each inch of patient ’ s height over 5 feet • To calculate a patient ' s weight in kg when lbs are known : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Children 5 to 15 kg ( 11 to 33 lbs ) Otherwise , the total dose may be calculated using the formula below : Dose ( mL ) = 0 . 0442 ( Desired Hb - Observed Hb ) x W + ( 0 . 26 x W ) Based on : • Desired Hb = the target hemoglobin in g / dL [ Normal hemoglobin for children with body weight of 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) or less is 12 g / dL . ]
• W = body weight in kg • To calculate a patient ' s weight in kg when lbs are known : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Recommended Dosage of Iron Replacement for Blood Loss Calculate the INFeD dose based upon the formula below which is based upon the approximate amount of blood loss and pretreatment hematocrit .
The formula is based on the approximation that 1 mL of normocytic , normochromic red cells contains 1 mg of elemental iron .
INFeD Dose ( in mL ) = [ Blood loss ( in mL ) x hematocrit ] ÷ 50 mg / mL Example : Blood loss of 500 mL with 20 % hematocrit Replacement Iron = 500 x 0 . 20 = 100 mg INFeD dose volume = [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 4 Administration The total volume of INFeD required for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia is determined from Table 1 or the appropriate formula listed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The total volume of INFeD required for the treatment of iron replacement for blood loss is determined from an appropriate formula listed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
NOTE : Do not mix INFeD with other medications or add to parenteral nutrition solutions for intravenous infusion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit .
Discard unused portion .
Intravenous Injection Test Dose Prior to the first intravenous INFeD therapeutic dose , administer an intravenous test dose of 0 . 5 mL [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administer the test dose at a gradual rate over at least 30 seconds .
Delay administration of the initial therapeutic INFeD dose until 1 hour or more after the test dose .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs with the test dose , manage medically and do not administer further doses of INFeD .
INFeD is given undiluted at a slow gradual rate not to exceed 50 mg ( 1 mL ) per minute .
The maximum daily dose of INFeD should not exceed 2 mL .
Intramuscular Injection Test Dose Prior to the first intramuscular INFeD therapeutic dose , administer an intramuscular test dose of 0 . 5 mL [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administer the test dose at a gradual rate over at least 30 seconds into the buttock .
Delay administration of the initial therapeutic INFeD dose until 1 hour or more after the test dose .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs with the test dose , manage medically and do not administer further doses of INFeD .
If no adverse reactions are observed , INFeD can be given according to the following schedule until the calculated total required dose has been reached .
Each day ’ s dose should not exceed 0 . 5 mL ( 25 mg of iron ) for infants with body weight under 5 kg ( 11 lbs ) ; 1 mL ( 50 mg of iron ) for children with body weight under 10 kg ( 22 lbs ) ; and 2 mL ( 100 mg of iron ) for other patients .
The maximum daily dose of INFeD should not exceed 2 mL .
INFeD should be injected only into the muscle mass of the upper outer quadrant of the buttock - never into the arm or other exposed areas - and should be injected deeply , with a 2 - inch or 3 - inch 19 or 20 gauge needle .
If the patient is standing , he / she should be bearing his / her weight on the leg opposite the injection site , or if in bed , he / she should be in the lateral position with injection site uppermost .
To avoid injection or leakage into the subcutaneous tissue , a Z - track technique ( displacement of the skin laterally prior to injection ) is recommended .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 100 mg / 2 mL ( 50 mg / 1 mL ) , dark brown , slightly viscous , sterile solution in single - dose vials Injection : 100 mg / 2 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) in single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS INFeD is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to iron dextran [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to INFeD ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Delayed Reactions : May occur with large intravenous doses .
( 5 . 2 ) • Increased Risk of Toxicity in Patients with Underlying Conditions : Monitor for toxicity in these patients .
( 5 . 3 ) • Iron Overload : Excessive therapy can lead to iatrogenic hemosiderosis .
Do not administer to patients with iron overload .
Periodically monitor hematologic and iron parameters .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactic - type reactions , some of which have been life - threatening and fatal , have been reported following the parenteral administration of iron dextran products , including INFeD .
Such reactions have been generally characterized by sudden onset of respiratory difficulty and / or cardiovascular collapse .
Fatal reactions have been reported following the test dose of iron dextran and have also occurred in situations where the test dose was tolerated .
Administer only in a setting where resuscitation equipment and medications are available .
Administer a test dose of INFeD prior to the first therapeutic dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Observe patients for at least one hour after the test dose before administering the remainder of the initial therapeutic dose .
During all INFeD administrations , observe patients for signs or symptoms of anaphylactic - type reactions .
Use INFeD only in patients in whom clinical and laboratory investigations have established an iron deficient state not amenable to oral iron therapy .
The factors that affect the risk for anaphylactic - type reactions to iron dextran products are not fully known but limited clinical data suggest the risk may be increased among patients with a history of drug allergy or multiple drug allergies .
Additionally , concomitant use of angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor drugs may increase the risk for reactions to an iron dextran product .
The extent of risk for anaphylactic - type reactions following exposure to any specific iron dextran product is unknown and may vary among the products .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur during administration , stop INFeD immediately and manage reaction medically .
5 . 2 Delayed Reactions Large intravenous doses , such as used with total dose infusions ( TDI ) , have been associated with an increased incidence of adverse reactions .
The adverse reactions are frequently delayed ( 1 to 2 days ) reactions typified by one or more of the following symptoms : arthralgia , backache , chills , dizziness , moderate to high fever , headache , malaise , myalgia , nausea , and vomiting .
The onset is usually 24 to 48 hours after administration and symptoms generally subside within 3 to 4 days .
The etiology of these reactions is not known .
Do not exceed a total daily dose of 2 mL undiluted INFeD .
5 . 3 Increased Risk of Toxicity in Patients with Underlying Conditions Monitor for iron toxicity when INFeD is used in patients with serious impairment of liver function .
It should not be used during the acute phase of infectious kidney disease .
Adverse reactions experienced following administration of INFeD may exacerbate cardiovascular complications in patients with pre - existing cardiovascular disease .
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis may have an acute exacerbation of joint pain and swelling following the administration of INFeD .
Patients with a history of significant allergies and / or asthma may have an increased risk of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Iron Overload Excessive therapy with parenteral iron can lead to excess storage of iron with the possibility of iatrogenic hemosiderosis .
All adult and pediatric patients receiving INFeD require periodic monitoring of hematologic and iron parameters ( hemoglobin , hematocrit , serum ferritin and transferrin saturation ) .
Do not administer INFeD to patients with evidence of iron overload .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Delayed Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Increased Risk of Toxicity in Patients with Underlying Conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Iron Overload [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Fetal bradycardia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of INFeD were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Leukocytosis , lymphadenopathy .
Cardiac disorders : Cardiac arrest , tachycardia , bradycardia , arrhythmias .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , chest tightness , weakness , malaise , febrile episodes , chills , shivering , sterile abscess , atrophy / fibrosis ( intramuscular injection site ) , brown skin and / or underlying tissue discoloration ( staining ) , soreness or pain at or near intramuscular injection sites , swelling , inflammation .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Arthralgia , arthritis ( may represent reactivation in patients with quiescent rheumatoid arthritis – [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , myalgia , backache .
Nervous system disorders : Convulsions , seizures , syncope , headache , unresponsiveness , paresthesia , dizziness , numbness , unconsciousness , altered taste .
Psychiatric disorders : Disorientation Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Respiratory arrest , dyspnea , bronchospasm , wheezing .
Renal and urinary disorders : Hematuria .
Skin and subcutaneous disorders : Urticaria , pruritus , purpura , rash , sweating .
Vascular disorders : Cyanosis , shock , hypertension , hypotension , flushing ( flushing and hypotension may occur from too rapid injections by the intravenous route ) , local phlebitis at or near intravenous injection site .
Most common adverse reactions are nausea , vomiting , chest pain , backache , hypersensitivity , dyspnea , hypotension , pruritus , flushing , dizziness .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Drug interactions involving INFeD have not been studied .
Concomitant use of angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor drugs may increase the risk for anaphylactic - type reactions to an iron dextran product .
Large doses of iron dextran ( 5 mL or more ) have been reported to give a brown color to serum from a blood sample drawn 4 hours after administration .
INFeD may cause falsely elevated values of serum bilirubin and falsely decreased values of serum calcium .
Serum iron determinations ( especially by colorimetric assays ) may not be meaningful for 3 weeks following the administration of INFeD .
Examination of the bone marrow for iron stores may not be meaningful for prolonged periods following iron dextran therapy because residual iron dextran may remain in the reticuloendothelial cells .
Bone scans involving 99 m Tc - diphosphonate have been reported to show a dense , crescentic area of activity in the buttocks , following the contour of the iliac crest , 1 to 6 days after intramuscular injections of INFeD .
Bone scans with 99 m Tc - labeled bone seeking agents , in the presence of high serum ferritin levels or following INFeD infusions , have been reported to show reduction of bony uptake , marked renal activity , and excessive blood pool and soft tissue accumulation .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Risk of hypersensitivity reaction which may have serious consequences for the fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Parenteral iron administration may be associated with hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , which may have serious consequences , such as fetal bradycardia ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Advise pregnant persons of the potential risk to the fetus .
Available data from postmarketing reports with iron dextran use in pregnancy are insufficient to assess the risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
There are risks to the pregnant person and fetus associated with untreated iron deficiency anemia in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Iron dextran has been shown to be teratogenic and embryocidal in mice , rats , rabbits , dogs , and monkeys when given in doses of about 3 times the maximum human dose .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Untreated iron deficiency anemia ( IDA ) in pregnancy is associated with adverse maternal outcomes such as post - partum anemia .
Adverse pregnancy outcomes associated with IDA include increased risk for preterm delivery and low birth weight .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Severe adverse reactions including circulatory failure ( severe hypotension , shock including in the context of anaphylactic reaction ) may occur in pregnant persons with intravenous iron administration ( such as INFeD ) which may have serious consequences on the fetus such as fetal bradycardia , especially during the second and third trimester .
Data Animal Data No consistent adverse fetal effects were observed in mice , rats , rabbits , dogs , and monkeys at doses of 50 mg iron / kg or less .
Fetal and maternal toxicity has been reported in monkeys at a total intravenous dose of 90 mg iron / kg over a 14 day period .
Similar effects were observed in mice and rats on administration of a single dose of 125 mg iron / kg .
Fetal abnormalities in rats and dogs were observed at doses of 250 mg iron / kg and higher .
The animals used in these tests were not iron deficient .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Trace amounts of unmetabolized iron dextran are present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of iron dextran in breastfed infants or effects on milk production .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for INFeD in addition to any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use INFeD is not recommended for use in infants under 4 months of age [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Reports in the literature from countries outside the United States ( in particular , New Zealand ) have suggested that the use of intramuscular iron dextran in neonates has been associated with an increased incidence of gram - negative sepsis , primarily due to E . Coli .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive dosages of INFeD may lead to accumulation of iron in storage sites potentially leading to hemosiderosis .
Do not administer INFeD to patients with iron overload [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
INFeD is not removed by hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION INFeD ( iron dextran injection USP ) is an iron replacement product provided as a dark brown , slightly viscous sterile liquid complex of ferric hydroxide and dextran for intravenous or intramuscular use .
Each mL contains the equivalent of 50 mg of elemental iron ( as an iron dextran complex ) , approximately 0 . 9 % sodium chloride , in water for injection .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may have been used to adjust pH . The pH of the solution is between 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The circulating iron released from iron dextran , which is subject to physiological control , replenishes hemoglobin and depleted iron stores .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Changes in serum ferritin levels represent the changes in calculated cellular non - heme iron levels .
After administration of iron dextran , evidence of a therapeutic response can be seen as an increase in the reticulocyte count .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following intramuscular injection , INFeD is absorbed within 72 hours with any remaining iron absorbed over the ensuing 3 to 4 weeks .
Various studies involving intravenously administered 59 Fe iron dextran to iron deficient subjects , some of whom had coexisting disease , have yielded half - life values ranging from 5 hours to more than 20 hours .
The 5 hour value was determined for 59 Fe iron dextran from a study that used laboratory methods to separate the circulating 59 Fe iron dextran from the transferrin bound 59 Fe .
The 20 hour value reflects a half - life determined by measuring total 59 Fe , both circulating and bound .
It should be understood that these half - life values do not represent clearance of iron from the body .
Serum ferritin peaks approximately 7 to 9 days after an intravenous dose of INFeD and returns to baseline after about 3 weeks .
Absorption Following intramuscular administration , INFeD is absorbed from the injection site into the capillaries and the lymphatic system .
Distribution The circulating iron is bound to the available protein moieties to form hemosiderin or ferritin , or to a lesser extent to transferrin .
Elimination The half - life of free iron in the plasma circulation is approximately 5 hours .
The half - life of total iron , including both circulating and bound , is approximately 20 hours .
These half - life values do not represent clearance of iron from the body .
Metabolism Following administration of INFeD , circulating iron dextran is split by the cells of the reticuloendothelial system into its components of iron and dextran .
Excretion Negligible amounts of iron are lost via the urinary or alimentary pathways after administration of iron dextran .
Dextran , a polyglucose , is either metabolized or excreted .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment In vitro studies have shown that removal of iron dextran by dialysis is negligible .
Six different dialyzer membranes were investigated ( polysulfone , cuprophane , cellulose acetate , cellulose triacetate , polymethylmethacrylate and polyacrylonitrile ) , including those considered high efficiency and high flux .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis The intramuscular injection of iron - carbohydrate complexes may be associated with an increased risk of carcinogenesis .
In mice , rats , rabbits , and possibly hamsters , it has been demonstrated that these complexes may produce sarcoma following repeated administration of large or small doses of iron - carbohydrate complexes at a single injection site .
There have been several reports in the literature describing tumors at the injection site in humans who had previously received intramuscular injections of iron - carbohydrate complexes .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied INFeD ( iron dextran injection USP ) containing 50 mg of elemental iron per mL , is available as a dark brown , slightly viscous , sterile solution in 2 mL single - dose amber vials in cartons of 10 ( NDC 0023 - 6082 - 10 ) .
16 . 2 Stability and Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity Reactions Question patients regarding any prior history of reactions to parenteral iron products .
Advise patients to immediately report any symptoms of hypersensitivity that develop during and following INFeD administration such as arthralgia , backache , chills , dizziness , moderate to high fever , headache , malaise , myalgia , nausea , and vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Delayed Reactions Advise patients that delayed reactions can occur and that these must be reported to their healthcare provider immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Increased Risk of Toxicity in Patients with Underlying Conditions Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider if any liver impairment is identified as this may cause iron toxicity .
Advise patients to consult their healthcare provider should they start to show symptoms of acute kidney infection as INFeD should not be used [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients with pre - existing cardiovascular disease and rheumatoid arthritis that INFeD administration may exacerbate symptoms and to contact their healthcare provider if any symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients with history of significant allergies and / or asthma to inform their healthcare provider as the risk of hypersensitivity reactions may be increased [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Iron Overload Advise the patient to consult a healthcare provider before taking any other iron containing products as this may cause serious side effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant persons about the risk of hypersensitivity reactions which may have serious consequences for the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
For all medical inquiries contact : Allergan Medical Communications 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 Manufactured By : Patheon Italia S . p . A . Ferentino , Italy 03013 Distributed By : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2021 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
INFeD ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC .
v5 . 0USPI6082 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0023 - 6082 - 10 INFeD ( Iron Dextran Injection USP ) 100 mg elemental iron / 2 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) for intramuscular or intravenous use Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
