DESCRIPTION Sacrosidase is an enzyme with the chemical name of β , D - fructofuranoside fructohydrolase .
The enzyme is derived from baker ’ s yeast ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) .
It has been reported that the primary amino acid structure of this protein consists of 513 amino acids with an apparent molecular weight of 100 , 000 Da for the glycosylated monomer ( range 66 , 000 - 116 , 000 Da ) .
Reports also suggest that the protein exists in solution as a monomer , dimer , tetramer , and octomer ranging from 100 , 000 Da to 800 , 000 Da .
It has an isoelectric point ( pI ) of 4 . 5 .
Sucraid ® ( sacrosidase ) Oral Solution is an enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of genetically determined sucrase deficiency , which is part of congenital sucrase - isomaltase deficiency ( CSID ) .
Sucraid is a pale yellow to colorless , clear solution with a pleasant , sweet taste .
Each milliliter ( mL ) of Sucraid contains 8 , 500 International Units ( I . U . ) of the enzyme sacrosidase , the active ingredient .
Sucraid may contain small amounts of papain .
Papain is known to cause allergic reactions in some people .
Papain is a protein - cleaving enzyme that is introduced in the manufacturing process to digest the cell wall of the yeast and may not be completely removed during subsequent process steps .
Sucraid contains sacrosidase in a vehicle comprised of glycerin , water , citric acid , and sodium hydroxide to maintain the pH at 4 . 0 to 4 . 7 .
Glycerol ( glycerin ) in the amount consumed in the recommended doses of Sucraid has no expected toxicity .
This enzyme preparation is fully soluble with water , milk , and infant formula .
DO NOT HEAT SOLUTIONS CONTAINING SUCRAID .
Do not put Sucraid in warm or hot liquids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Administration Instructions ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Congenital sucrase - isomaltase deficiency ( CSID ) is a chronic , autosomal recessive , inherited , phenotypically heterogeneous disease with very variable enzyme activity .
CSID is usually characterized by a complete or almost complete lack of endogenous sucrase activity , a very marked reduction in isomaltase activity , a moderate decrease in maltase activity , and normal lactase levels .
Sucrase is naturally produced in the brush border of the small intestine , primarily the distal duodenum and jejunum .
Sucrase hydrolyzes the disaccharide sucrose into its component monosaccharides , glucose and fructose .
Isomaltase breaks down disaccharides from starch into simple sugars .
Sucraid does not contain isomaltase .
In the absence of endogenous human sucrase , as in CSID , sucrose is not metabolized .
Unhydrolyzed sucrose and starch are not absorbed from the intestine and their presence in the intestinal lumen may lead to osmotic retention of water .
This may result in loose stools .
Unabsorbed sucrose in the colon is fermented by bacterial flora to produce increased amounts of hydrogen , methane , and water .
As a consequence , excessive gas , bloating , abdominal cramps , nausea , and vomiting may occur .
Chronic malabsorption of disaccharides may result in malnutrition .
Undiagnosed / untreated CSID patients often fail to thrive and fall behind in their expected growth and development curves .
Previously , the treatment of CSID has required the continual use of a strict sucrose - free diet .
CSID is often difficult to diagnose .
Approximately 4 % to 10 % of pediatric patients with chronic diarrhea of unknown origin have CSID .
Measurement of expired breath hydrogen under controlled conditions following a sucrose challenge ( a measurement of excess hydrogen excreted in exhalation ) in CSID patients has shown levels as great as 6 times that in normal subjects .
A generally accepted clinical definition of CSID is a condition characterized by the following : stool pH < 6 , an increase in breath hydrogen of > 10 ppm when challenged with sucrose after fasting and a negative lactose breath test .
However , because of the difficulties in diagnosing CSID , it may be warranted to conduct a short therapeutic trial ( e . g . , one week ) to assess response in patients suspected of having CSID .
CLINICAL STUDIES A two - phase ( dose response preceded by a breath hydrogen phase ) double - blind , multi - site , crossover trial was conducted in 28 patients ( aged 4 months to 11 . 5 years ) with confirmed CSID .
During the dose response phase , the patients were challenged with an ordinary sucrose - containing diet while receiving each of four doses of sacrosidase : full strength ( 9000 I . U . / mL ) and three dilutions ( 1 : 10 [ 900 I . U . / mL ] , 1 : 100 [ 90 I . U . / mL ] , and 1 : 1000 [ 9 I . U . / mL ] ) in random order for a period of 10 days .
Patients who weighed no more than 15 kg received 1 mL per meal ; those weighing more than 15 kg received 2 mL per meal .
The dose did not vary with age or sucrose intake .
A dose - response relationship was shown between the two higher and the two lower doses .
The two higher doses of sacrosidase were associated with significantly fewer total stools and higher proportions of patients having lower total symptom scores , the primary efficacy end - points .
In addition , higher doses of sacrosidase were associated with a significantly greater number of hard and formed stools as well as with fewer watery and soft stools , the secondary efficacy end - points .
Analysis of the overall symptomatic response as a function of age indicated that in CSID patients up to 3 years of age , 86 % became asymptomatic .
In patients over 3 years of age , 77 % became asymptomatic .
Thus , the therapeutic response did not differ significantly according to age .
A second study of similar design and execution as the first used 4 different dilutions of sacrosidase : 1 : 100 ( 90 I . U . / mL ) , 1 : 1000 ( 9 I . U . / mL ) , 1 : 10 , 000 ( 0 . 9 I . U . / mL ) , and 1 : 100 , 000 ( 0 . 09 I . U . / mL ) .
There were inconsistent results with regards to the primary efficacy parameters .
In both trials , however , patients showed a marked decrease in breath hydrogen output when they received sacrosidase in comparison to placebo .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucraid ® ( sacrosidase ) Oral Solution is indicated as oral replacement therapy of the genetically determined sucrase deficiency , which is part of congenital sucrase - isomaltase deficiency ( CSID ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients known to be hypersensitive to yeast , yeast products , glycerin ( glycerol ) , or papain .
WARNINGS Severe wheezing , 90 minutes after a second dose of sacrosidase , necessitated admission into the ICU for a 4 - year - old boy .
The wheezing was probably caused by sacrosidase .
He had asthma and was being treated with steroids .
A skin test for sacrosidase was positive .
Other serious events have not been linked to Sucraid .
PRECAUTIONS Care should be taken to administer initial doses of Sucraid near ( within a few minutes of travel ) a facility where acute hypersensitivity reactions can be adequately treated .
Alternatively , the patient may be tested for hypersensitivity to Sucraid through skin abrasion testing .
Should symptoms of hypersensitivity appear , discontinue medication and initiate symptomatic and supportive therapy .
Skin testing as a rechallenge has been used to verify hypersensitivity in one asthmatic child who displayed wheezing after oral sacrosidase .
GENERAL Although Sucraid provides replacement therapy for the deficient sucrase , it does not provide specific replacement therapy for the deficient isomaltase .
Therefore , restricting starch in the diet may still be necessary to reduce symptoms as much as possible .
The need for dietary starch restriction for patients using Sucraid should be evaluated in each patient .
It may sometimes be clinically inappropriate , difficult , or inconvenient to perform a small bowel biopsy or breath hydrogen test to make a definitive diagnosis of CSID .
If the diagnosis is in doubt , it may be warranted to conduct a short therapeutic trial ( e . g . , one week ) with Sucraid to assess response in a patient suspected of sucrase deficiency .
The effects of Sucraid have not been evaluated in patients with secondary ( acquired ) disaccharidase deficiencies .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS See Patient Package Insert .
Instruct patients to discard bottles of Sucraid 4 weeks after opening due to the potential for bacterial growth .
For the same reason , patients should be advised to rinse the measuring scoop with water after each use .
Administer Sucraid with water , milk , or infant formula .
Do not warm or heat the beverage or infant formula before or after addition of Sucraid .
Do not mix or consume Sucraid with fruit juice .
USE IN DIABETICS The use of Sucraid will enable the products of sucrose hydrolysis , glucose and fructose , to be absorbed .
This fact must be carefully considered in planning the diet of diabetic CSID patients using Sucraid .
LABORATORY TESTS The definitive test for diagnosis of CSID is the measurement of intestinal disaccharidases following small bowel biopsy .
Other tests used alone may be inaccurate : for example , the breath hydrogen test ( high incidence of false negatives ) or oral sucrose tolerance test ( high incidence of false positives ) .
Differential urinary disaccharide testing has been reported to show good agreement with small intestinal biopsy for diagnosis of CSID .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Neither drug - drug nor drug - food interactions are expected or have been reported with the use of Sucraid .
Do not mix or consume Sucraid with fruit juice , since acidity may reduce the enzyme activity .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term studies in animals with Sucraid have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential .
Studies to evaluate the effect of Sucraid on fertility or its mutagenic potential have not been performed .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sucraid .
Sucraid is not expected to cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or to affect reproductive capacity .
Sucraid should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS The Sucraid enzyme is broken down in the stomach and intestines , and the component amino acids and peptides are then absorbed as nutrients .
PEDIATRIC USE Sucraid has been used in patients as young as 5 months of age .
Evidence in one controlled trial in primarily pediatric patients shows that Sucraid is safe and effective for the treatment of the genetically acquired sucrase deficiency , which is part of CSID .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences with Sucraid in clinical trials were generally minor and were frequently associated with the underlying disease .
In clinical studies of up to 54 months duration , physicians treated a total of 52 patients with Sucraid .
The adverse experiences and respective number of patients reporting each event ( in parenthesis ) were as follows : abdominal pain ( 4 ) , vomiting ( 3 ) , nausea ( 2 ) , diarrhea ( 2 ) , constipation ( 2 ) , insomnia ( 1 ) , headache ( 1 ) , nervousness ( 1 ) , and dehydration ( 1 ) .
Note : diarrhea and abdominal pain can be a part of the clinical presentation of the genetically determined sucrase deficiency , which is part of congenital sucrase - isomaltase deficiency ( CSID ) .
One asthmatic child experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction ( wheezing ) probably related to sacrosidase ( see Warnings ) .
The event resulted in withdrawal of the patient from the trial but resolved with no sequelae .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with Sucraid has not been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage • Patients weighing 15 kg and less : The recommended dosage is 1 mL ( 8 , 500 International Units ) administered orally with each meal or snack .
• Patients weighing more than 15 kg : The recommended dosage is 2 mL ( 17 , 000 International Units ) administered orally with each meal or snack .
Preparation Instructions 1 mL ( 8 , 500 International Units ) dose for patients weighing 15 kg or less : • Multiple - Dose Bottle : Measure 1 scoop ( provided ) or 28 drops using the multiple - dose bottle in 60 mL of water , milk , or infant formula and mix well .
Rinse the measuring scoop with water after each use .
2 mL ( 17 , 000 International Units ) dose for patients weighing more than 15 kg : • Multiple - Dose Bottle : Measure 2 scoops ( provided ) or 56 drops using the multiple - dose bottle in 120 mL of water , milk , or infant formula and mix well .
Rinse the measuring scoop with water after each use .
• Single - Use Container : Empty the entire contents of the 2 mL single - use container in 120 mL of water , milk , or infant formula and mix well .
Administration Instructions • Administer half of the mixed solution at the beginning of the meal or snack and the other half during the meal or snack .
• Serve the beverage or infant formula cold or at room temperature .
Do not warm or heat the beverage or infant formula before or after addition of Sucraid .
• Administration of Sucraid with liquids other than water , milk , or infant formula has not been studied and is not recommended .
Do not mix or consume Sucraid with fruit juice .
HOW SUPPLIED 118 mL Multiple - Dose Bottle Sucraid ( sacrosidase ) Oral Solution is available in 118 mL ( 4 fluid ounces ) multiple - dose translucent plastic bottles , packaged two bottles per carton .
Each mL of solution contains 8 , 500 International Units of sacrosidase .
A 1 mL measuring scoop is provided with each bottle .
A full measuring scoop is 1 mL .
NDC # 67871 - 111 - 04 ( 2 x 118 mL multiple - dose bottles ) Store under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Discard four weeks after first opening due to the potential for bacterial growth .
Protect from heat and light .
2 mL Single - Use Container Sucraid ( sacrosidase ) Oral Solution is available in 2 mL , single - use containers that are packaged into a foil pouch .
Each 2 mL single - use container contains 17 , 000 International Units of sacrosidase .
Each foil pouch holds a card of 5 containers .
Five pouches are then packaged in a box ( 25 containers ) .
Six boxes are further packaged in a carton ( 150 containers ) .
NDC # 67871 - 111 - 07 ( 150 x 2 mL single - use containers ) Store under refrigeration , 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Single - use container can be removed from refrigeration and stored at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) for up to 3 days ( 72 hours ) .
Manufactured by : QOL Medical , LLC Vero Beach , FL 32963 U . S . License No . 2195 www . sucraid . com For questions call 1 - 866 - 469 - 3773 Rev < 05 / 22 > Part No . 0110 Instructions for Use SUCRAID ® ( Su - kreid ) ( sacrosidase ) oral solution 2 mL Single - Use Container Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking or giving SUCRAID to a child , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your or your child ’ s medical condition or treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important information you need to know before taking or giving SUCRAID : • The 2 mL single - use container is for a child and adult more than 33 pounds ( 15 kg ) .
• SUCRAID is supplied in 2 mL single - use containers in a foil pouch .
Each foil pouch holds 5 single - use containers .
Each container is one 2 mL SUCRAID dose .
• Your healthcare provider will decide the right dose of SUCRAID for you or your child .
Do not change the dose of SUCRAID without talking to your healthcare provider .
• SUCRAID can only be dissolved with cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula .
Do not put SUCRAID in warm or hot liquids .
Do not dissolve SUCRAID with fruit juice .
Do not give or take SUCRAID with fruit juice .
• Do not warm or heat the mixed solution before taking or giving SUCRAID .
• SUCRAID should be taken or given with each meal or snack .
Half of the SUCRAID dose should be taken at the beginning of each meal or snack .
Take or give the remaining SUCRAID dose during the meal or snack .
• Do not use the SUCRAID single - use container if the seal has been damaged .
Contact your pharmacist or healthcare provider if you cannot use the SUCRAID single - use container .
Supplies needed to take or give SUCRAID : • 1 SUCRAID 2 mL container • 4 ounces of cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula ( not included ) • Meal or snack ( not included ) • Spoon to mix ( not included ) How to take or give SUCRAID : Step 1 : Check the expiration date on the SUCRAID foil pouch .
Do not use SUCRAID if it is past the expiration date .
Remove 1 SUCRAID 2 mL container from a foil pouch .
Step 2 : Twist the cap to the left to remove it from the container .
See Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Squeeze all the SUCRAID solution in the container into 4 ounces of cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula .
See Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Mix your or your child ’ s prescribed dose in 4 ounces of cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula .
See Figure 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Take or give half of the mixed solution at the beginning of each meal or snack .
Take or give the remaining mixed solution during the meal or snack .
Throwing away ( disposal of ) SUCRAID : • Throw away expired or empty SUCRAID containers in your household trash .
How should I store SUCRAID ?
• Store the SUCRAID single - use container in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• The SUCRAID single - use container may be stored between 59 ° F to 77 ° F ( 15 ° to 25 ° C ) for up to 3 days .
• Protect SUCRAID from heat and light .
Keep SUCRAID and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by : QOL Medical , LLC Vero Beach , FL 32963 U . S . License No . 2195 For more information , go to www . sucraid . com or call 1 - 866 - 469 - 3773 .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : May 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use SUCRAID ® ( Su - kreid ) ( sacrosidase ) oral solution 118 mL Multiple - Dose Bottle Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking or giving SUCRAID to a child , and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your or your child ’ s medical condition or treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Important information you need to know before taking or giving SUCRAID : • Your healthcare provider will decide the right dose of SUCRAID for you or your child .
Do not change the dose of SUCRAID without talking to your healthcare provider .
• The dose of SUCRAID depends on body weight .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much SUCRAID you should take or give your child .
• The dose for a child 33 pounds ( 15 kg ) or less is 1 mL or 28 drops of SUCRAID in 2 ounces of water , milk , or infant formula .
• The dose for a child or adult more than 33 pounds ( 15 kg ) is 2 mL or 56 drops of SUCRAID in 4 ounces of water , milk , or infant formula .
• SUCRAID can only be dissolved with cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula .
Do not put SUCRAID in warm or hot liquids .
Do not dissolve SUCRAID with fruit juice .
Do not take or give SUCRAID with fruit juice .
• Do not warm or heat the mixed solution before taking or giving SUCRAID .
• Measure your dose or your child ’ s dose of SUCRAID using the measuring scoop that comes with the SUCRAID bottle .
Do not use a kitchen teaspoon or other measuring device .
• SUCRAID should be taken or given with each meal or snack .
Half of the SUCRAID dose should be taken or given at the beginning of each meal or snack .
Take or give the remaining SUCRAID dose during the meal or snack .
• Do not use the SUCRAID multiple - dose bottle if the seal has been damaged .
Contact your pharmacist or healthcare provider if you cannot use the SUCRAID multiple - dose bottle .
Supplies needed to take or give SUCRAID : • SUCRAID 118 mL multiple - dose bottle • 1 measuring scoop ( included in SUCRAID carton ) • 2 to 4 ounces of cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula ( not included ) • Meal or snack ( not included ) How to take or give SUCRAID : Step 1 : Check the expiration date on the SUCRAID bottle .
Do not use SUCRAID after the expiration date on the bottle has passed .
Step 2 : Write down the date the bottle is first opened in the space provided on the bottle label .
Step 3 : Each bottle of SUCRAID has a plastic screw cap that covers a dropper dispensing tip .
Remove the plastic screw cap by twisting it to the left .
Step 4 : Use the measuring scoop that comes in your SUCRAID carton to measure your or your child ’ s prescribed dose .
See Figure 1 .
Reseal the bottle after each use by replacing and twisting the plastic screw cap to the right until tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Mix your or your child ’ s prescribed dose in 2 ounces or 4 ounces of cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula as instructed by your healthcare provider .
See Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Take or give half of the mixed solution at the beginning of each meal or snack .
Take or give the remaining mixed solution during the meal or snack .
Step 7 : Rinse the measuring scoop with water after each use .
Throwing away ( disposal of ) SUCRAID : • Throw away ( discard ) the SUCRAID multiple - dose bottle and any remaining medicine in your household trash 4 weeks after first opening .
How should I store SUCRAID ?
• Store the SUCRAID multiple - dose bottle in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Protect SUCRAID from heat and light .
Keep SUCRAID and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by : QOL Medical , LLC Vero Beach , FL 32963 U . S . License No . 2195 For more information , go to www . sucraid . com or call 1 - 866 - 469 - 3773 .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : May 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information SUCRAID ® ( Su - kreid ) sacrosidase oral solution What is SUCRAID ?
SUCRAID is an oral replacement therapy for people who were born with a sucrase deficiency , which is part of congenital sucrase - isomaltase deficiency ( CSID ) .
People with this condition cannot digest certain sugars .
It is not known if SUCRAID is safe and effective in children under 5 months of age .
Do not take or give your child SUCRAID if you or your child : • are allergic to yeast , yeast products , glycerin ( glycerol ) , or papain .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in SUCRAID .
• have had a positive skin test for sacrosidase .
Before you take or give your child SUCRAID , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have diabetes .
SUCRAID can interact with the food in your diet and may change your blood sugar levels .
Your healthcare provider will tell you if your diet or diabetes medicines need to be changed .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if SUCRAID will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take SUCRAID • while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take or give SUCRAID ?
• See the detailed Instructions for Use that come with this Patient Information leaflet for instructions about the right way to take or give SUCRAID .
• SUCRAID should be taken or given exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Do not change the dose of SUCRAID without talking to your healthcare provider .
• SUCRAID comes in a 118 mL multiple - dose bottle or a 2 mL single - use container .
Your healthcare provider will decide which type of SUCRAID is best for you to use at home .
• The dose of SUCRAID depends on body weight .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much SUCRAID you should take or give your child .
• The dose for a child 33 pounds ( 15 kg ) or less is 1 mL or 28 drops of SUCRAID in 2 ounces of water , milk , or infant formula .
• The dose for a child or adult more than 33 pounds ( 15 kg ) is 2 mL or 56 drops of SUCRAID in 4 ounces of water , milk , or infant formula .
• SUCRAID can only be dissolved in cold or room temperature water , milk , or infant formula .
Do not put SUCRAID in warm or hot liquids .
• Do not dissolve SUCRAID with fruit juice .
Do not take or give SUCRAID with fruit juice .
• Do not warm or heat the mixed solution before taking or giving SUCRAID .
• Measure your dose or your child ’ s dose of SUCRAID using the measuring scoop that comes with the SUCRAID bottle .
Do not use a kitchen teaspoon or other measuring device .
• SUCRAID should be taken or given with each meal or snack .
Half of the SUCRAID dose should be taken at the beginning of each meal or snack .
Take or give the remaining SUCRAID dose during the meal or snack .
• Rinse the measuring scoop with water after each use .
• SUCRAID does not break down some sugars found in foods that have starch , such as wheat , rice , and potatoes .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to avoid eating foods with starch .
What are the possible side effects of SUCRAID ?
SUCRAID may cause serious side effects , including : • Severe allergic reaction can happen in some people taking SUCRAID .
Symptoms of a severe allergic reaction include : • difficulty breathing • swelling of the face , lips , mouth , or tongue • wheezing Your healthcare provider may need to monitor you or your child carefully when first starting treatment with SUCRAID .
Get medical help right away and tell your healthcare provider as soon as possible if you or your child have any of the symptoms listed above .
Other side effects of SUCRAID may include : • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • nausea • constipation • headache • dehydration • vomiting • diarrhea • difficulty sleeping • nervousness These are not all of the possible side effects of SUCRAID .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store SUCRAID ?
• Store the SUCRAID multiple - dose bottle and 2 mL single - use container in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• The SUCRAID single - use container may be stored between 59 ° F to 77 ° F ( 15 ° to 25 ° C ) for up to 3 days .
• Protect SUCRAID from heat and light .
Keep SUCRAID and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of SUCRAID .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use SUCRAID for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SUCRAID to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about SUCRAID that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in SUCRAID ?
Active ingredient : sacrosidase .
Inactive ingredients : Citric acid , glycerol , sodium hydroxide , and water .
Manufactured by : QOL Medical , LLC Vero Beach , FL 32963 U . S . License No . 2195 For more information , go to www . sucraid . com or call 1 - 866 - 469 - 3773 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : May 2022 118 mL Multi - dose bottle Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bottle label : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 mL Single - use container Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pouch : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Single - use container : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
