In each 5 mL Dextromethorphan HBr - 5 mg Guaifenesin - 75 mg Phenylephrine HCl - 2 . 5 mg Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses • temporary relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritations as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make cough more productive • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold Warnings Do not use if your child is taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if your child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargment of prostate gland • a cough with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Ask a doctor before use if your child is • taking sedatives , tranquilizers or drugs for depression or MAOI drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if your child gets • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • cough lasts for more than 7 days , comes back or occurs with a fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek advice of a doctor or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hour Age Dose Children 6 to under 12 years of age Take 2 teaspoonful ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours Children 2 to under 6 years of age Take 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours Children under 2 years of age Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients : artificial and natural flavor , citric acid , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , and sucralose .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 595 - 5598 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
