TEP Sealed with printed neckband for your protection Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallowchildren unmder 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ⁰ - 77 ⁰ F ) Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , flavor , sodium citrate , yellow 10 , green 3 ADA Council Statement The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of Signature Care Spring Mint Antiseptic Mouthwash is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY BETTER LIVING BRANDS LLC P . O . BOX 99 , PLEASANTON , CA 94566 - 0009 1 - 888 - 723 - 3929 www . betterlivingbrandsLLC . com OUR PROMISE QUALITY & SATISFACTION 100 % GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK principal display panel Signature Care Quality Guaranteed ANTISEPTIC Mouthwash antigingivitis / antiplaque Spring Mint Fights Plaque & Gingivitis ADA Accepted American Dental Association Compare to the active ingrdients of Listerine 1 . 5 L ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
