DESCRIPTION AMRIX ® ( Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ) is a skeletal muscle relaxant which relieves muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
The active ingredient in AMRIX extended - release capsules is cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride , USP .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride ( HCl ) is a white , crystalline tricyclic amine salt with the empirical formula C20H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 311 . 9 .
It has a melting point of 217 ° C , and a pKa of 8 . 47 at 25 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water and alcohol , sparingly soluble in isopropanol , and insoluble in hydrocarbon solvents .
If aqueous solutions are made alkaline , the free base separates .
Cyclobenzaprine HCl is designated chemically as 3 - ( 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cyclohepten - 5 - ylidene ) - N , N - dimethyl - 1 - propanamine hydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMRIX extended - release capsules for oral administration are supplied in 15 and 30 mg strengths .
AMRIX capsules contain the following inactive ingredients : diethyl phthalate NF , ethylcellulose NF ( Ethocel Standard 10 Premium ) , gelatin , Opadry ® Clear YS - 1 - 7006 , sugar spheres NF ( 20 - 25 mesh ) , and titanium dioxide .
AMRIX 15 mg capsules also contain D & C yellow # 10 , FD & C green # 3 , and FD & C red # 40 .
AMRIX 30 mg capsules also contain FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C blue # 2 , FD & C red # 40 , and FD & C yellow # 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclobenzaprine relieves skeletal muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
Cyclobenzaprine has not been shown to be effective in muscle spasm due to central nervous system disease .
In animal models , cyclobenzaprine reduced or abolished skeletal muscle hyperactivity .
Animal studies indicate that cyclobenzaprine does not act at the neuromuscular junction or directly on skeletal muscle .
Such studies show that cyclobenzaprine acts primarily within the central nervous system at the brain stem as opposed to the spinal cord level , although an overlapping action on the latter may contribute to its overall skeletal muscle relaxant activity .
Evidence suggests that the net effect of cyclobenzaprine is a reduction of tonic somatic motor activity , influencing both gamma ( γ ) and alpha ( α ) motor systems .
Pharmacological studies in animals demonstrated a similarity between the effects of cyclobenzaprine and the structurally related tricyclic antidepressants , including reserpine antagonism , norepinephrine potentiation , potent peripheral and central anticholinergic effects , and sedation .
Cyclobenzaprine caused slight to moderate increase in heart rate in animals .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a single - dose study comprised of healthy adult males ( n = 15 ) , the dose adjusted ratios of the arithmetic means of AUC0 - 168 and AUC0 - ∞ indicated that exposure of the AMRIX 30 mg was about 16 % and 10 % higher than that of AMRIX 15 mg , respectively .
The dose - adjusted ratios of the arithmetic means of Cmax indicated that the peak plasma concentration of AMRIX 30 mg was about 20 % higher than that of AMRIX 15 mg .
The half - lives and time to peak plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration were similar for both AMRIX 15 mg and 30 mg .
These data are summarized below .
Table 1 : Summary of Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Adult SubjectsSD = standard deviation Parameter Mean ± SD AMRIX 15 mg ( N = 15 ) AMRIX 30 mg ( N = 14 ) AUC0 - 168 ( ng • hr / mL ) 318 . 3 ± 114 . 7 736 . 6 ± 259 . 4 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng • hr / mL ) 354 . 1 ± 119 . 8 779 . 9 ± 277 . 6 Cmax ( ng / mL ) 8 . 3 ± 2 . 2 19 . 9 ± 5 . 9 Tmax ( hrs ) 8 . 1 ± 2 . 9 7 . 1 ± 1 . 6 t1 / 2 ( hrs ) 33 . 4 ± 10 . 3 32 . 0 ± 10 . 1 A food effect study conducted in healthy adult subjects ( n = 15 ) utilizing a single dose of AMRIX 30 mg demonstrated a statistically significant increase in bioavailability when AMRIX 30 mg was given with food relative to the fasted state .
There was a 35 % increase in peak plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration ( Cmax ) and a 20 % increase in exposure ( AUC0 - 168 and AUC0 - ∞ ) in the presence of food .
No effect , however , was noted in Tlag , Tmax , or the shape of the mean plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration versus time profile .
Cyclobenzaprine in plasma was first detectable in both the fed and fasted states at 1 . 5 hours .
In a multiple - dose study utilizing AMRIX 30 mg administered once daily for 7 days in a group of healthy adult volunteers ( n = 35 ) a 2 . 5 - fold accumulation of plasma cyclobenzaprine levels was noted at steady - state .
Metabolism and Elimination Cyclobenzaprine is extensively metabolized and is excreted primarily as glucuronides via the kidney .
Cytochromes P - 450 3A4 , 1A2 , and , to a lesser extent , 2D6 , mediate N - demethylation , one of the oxidative pathways for cyclobenzaprine .
Cyclobenzaprine has an elimination half - life of 32 hours ( range 8 - 37 hours ; n = 18 ) ; plasma clearance is 0 . 7 L / min following single dose administration of AMRIX .
Special Populations Elderly Although there were no notable differences in Cmax or Tmax , cyclobenzaprine plasma AUC is increased by 40 % and the plasma half - life of cyclobenzaprine is prolonged in elderly subjects greater than 65 years of age ( 50 hours ) after dosing with AMRIX compared to younger subjects ( 32 hours ) .
Pharmacokinetic characteristics of cyclobenzaprine following multiple - dose administration of AMRIX in the elderly were not evaluated .
Table 2 : Summary of Pharmacokinetic Parameters of AMRIX 30 mg Extended - Release Capsules , By Age Group * Measured over the entire 24 hour period SD = standard deviation Parameter Mean ± SD AMRIX 30 mg QD 18 to 45 years ( N = 18 ) 65 to 75 years ( N = 17 ) AUC0 - 168 ( ng • hr / mL ) 715 . 1 ± 264 . 2 945 . 9 ± 255 . 2 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng • hr / mL ) 751 . 2 ± 271 . 5 1055 . 2 ± 301 . 9 Cmax ( ng / mL ) * 19 . 2 ± 5 . 6 19 . 2 ± 5 . 1 Tmax ( hrs ) * 6 . 8 ± 1 . 9 8 . 5 ± 2 . 3 t1 / 2 ( hrs ) 32 . 4 ± 8 . 1 49 . 0 ± 8 . 3 Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of immediate - release cyclobenzaprine in 16 subjects with hepatic impairment ( 15 mild , 1 moderate per Child - Pugh score ) , both AUC and Cmax were approximately double the values seen in the healthy control group .
The pharmacokinetics of cyclobenzaprine in subjects with severe hepatic impairment is not known .
CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy was assessed in two double - blind , parallel - group , placebo - controlled studies of identical design of AMRIX 15 mg and 30 mg taken once daily in patients with muscle spasms associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
There were significant differences in the primary efficacy analysis , the patient ’ s rating of medication helpfulness , between the AMRIX 15 mg group and the placebo group at Days 4 and 14 in one study and between the AMRIX 30 mg group and the placebo group at Day 4 in the second study .
Table 3 : Subject ’ s Rating of Medication Helpfulness - Study 1105 Day 4 Day 14 Number of Subjects ( % ) Number of Subjects ( % ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) AMRIX 30 mg ( N = 64 ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) AMRIX 30 mg ( N = 64 ) Excellent 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) 3 ( 4 . 7 % ) 12 ( 18 . 8 % ) 15 ( 23 . 4 % ) Very Good 5 ( 7 . 8 % ) 13 ( 20 . 3 % ) 9 ( 14 . 1 % ) 19 ( 29 . 7 % ) Good 15 ( 23 . 4 % ) 22 ( 34 . 4 % ) 10 ( 15 . 6 % ) 15 ( 23 . 4 % ) Fair 24 ( 37 . 5 % ) 20 ( 31 . 3 % ) 16 ( 25 . 0 % ) 10 ( 15 . 6 % ) Poor 10 ( 15 . 6 % ) 5 ( 7 . 8 % ) 9 ( 14 . 1 % ) 4 ( 6 . 3 % ) Missing 9 ( 14 . 1 % ) 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) 8 ( 12 . 5 % ) 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) Table 4 : Subject ' s Rating of Medication Helpfulness - Study 1106 Day 4 Day 14 Number of Subjects ( % ) Number of Subjects ( % ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) AMRIX 15 mg ( N = 63 ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) AMRIX 15 mg ( N = 63 ) Excellent 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) 2 ( 3 . 2 % ) 10 ( 15 . 6 % ) 13 ( 20 . 6 % ) Very Good 10 ( 15 . 6 % ) 12 ( 19 . 0 % ) 12 ( 18 . 8 % ) 21 ( 33 . 3 % ) Good 14 ( 21 . 9 % ) 21 ( 33 . 3 % ) 13 ( 20 . 3 % ) 9 ( 14 . 3 % ) Fair 16 ( 25 . 0 % ) 17 ( 27 . 0 % ) 14 ( 21 . 9 % ) 10 ( 15 . 9 % ) Poor 19 ( 29 . 7 % ) 6 ( 9 . 5 % ) 12 ( 18 . 8 % ) 5 ( 7 . 9 % ) Missing 4 ( 6 . 3 % ) 5 ( 17 . 9 % ) 3 ( 4 . 7 % ) 5 ( 7 . 9 % ) In addition , one of the two studies demonstrated significant differences between the AMRIX 30 mg group and the placebo group in terms of patient - rated relief from local pain due to muscle spasm at Day 4 and Day 8 , in subject - rated restriction of movement at Day 4 and Day 8 , and in patient - rated global impression of change at Day 4 , Day 8 , and Day 14 .
There were no significant treatment differences between the AMRIX treatment groups and the placebo group in physician ' s global assessment , in subject - rated restriction in activities of daily living , or quality of night - time sleep .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE AMRIX is indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Improvement is manifested by relief of muscle spasm and its associated signs and symptoms , namely , pain , tenderness , and limitation of motion .
AMRIX should be used only for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted .
AMRIX has not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease or in children with cerebral palsy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
• Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
• Hyperpyretic crisis seizures and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine ( or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants ) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs .
• During the acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction , and in patients with arrhythmias , heart block conduction disturbances , or congestive heart failure .
• Hyperthyroidism .
WARNINGS AMRIX is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants , e . g . , amitriptyline and imipramine .
In short term studies for indications other than muscle spasm associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions , and usually at doses somewhat greater than those recommended for skeletal muscle spasm , some of the more serious central nervous system reactions noted with the tricyclic antidepressants have occurred ( see WARNINGS , below , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to produce arrhythmias , sinus tachycardia , prolongation of the conduction time leading to myocardial infarction and stroke .
AMRIX may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
As a result of a two - fold higher cyclobenzaprine plasma levels in subjects with mild hepatic impairment , as compared to healthy subjects , following administration of immediate - release cyclobenzaprine and because there is limited dosing flexibility with AMRIX , use of AMRIX is not recommended in subjects with mild , moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
As a result of a 40 % increase in cyclobenzaprine plasma levels and a 56 % increase in plasma half - life following administration of AMRIX in elderly subjects as compared to young adults , use of AMRIX is not recommended in elderly .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of its atropine - like action , AMRIX should be used with caution in patients with a history of urinary retention , angle - closure glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and in patients taking anticholinergic medication .
Information for Patients AMRIX , especially when used with alcohol or other CNS depressants , may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions AMRIX may have life - threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
AMRIX may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
Tricyclic antidepressants may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similarly acting compounds .
Tricyclic antidepressants may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking tramadol ( ULTRAM ® [ tramadol HCl tablets , Ortho - McNeil Pharmaceutical ] or ULTRACET ® [ tramadol HCl and acetaminophen tablets , Ortho - McNeil Pharmaceutical ] ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In rats treated with cyclobenzaprine for up to 67 weeks at doses of approximately 5 to 40 times the maximum recommended human dose , pale , sometimes enlarged , livers were noted and there was a dose - related hepatocyte vacuolation with lipidosis .
In the higher dose groups , this microscopic change was seen after 26 weeks and even earlier in rats that died prior to 26 weeks ; at lower doses , the change was not seen until after 26 weeks .
Cyclobenzaprine did not affect the onset , incidence , or distribution of neoplasia in an 81 - week study in the mouse or in a 105 - week study in the rat .
At oral doses of up to 10 times the human dose , cyclobenzaprine did not adversely affect the reproductive performance or fertility of male or female rats .
Cyclobenzaprine did not demonstrate mutagenic activity in the male mouse at dose levels of up to 20 times the human dose .
A battery of mutagenicity tests using bacterial and mammalian systems for point mutations and cytogenic effects have provided no evidence for a mutagenic potential for cyclobenzaprine .
An in vivo mouse bone micronucleus assay , an assessment of chromosomal aberrations ( Chinese hamster ovary ) , and a mammalian microsome reverse mutation assay were negative .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits at doses up to 20 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cyclobenzaprine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because cyclobenzaprine is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants , some of which are known to be excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AMRIX is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of AMRIX has not been studied in pediatric patients .
Use in the Elderly The plasma concentration and half - life of cyclobenzaprine are substantially increased in the elderly when compared to the general patient population ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , Special Populations , Elderly ) .
Accordingly , AMRIX should not be used in the elderly .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in the two 14 - day clinical efficacy trials and in the 7 - day repeat - dose pharmacokinetic study are presented in Tables 5 and 6 , respectively .
Table 5 : Incidence of the Most Common Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 3 % of Subjects in Any Treatment Group in the Two Phase 3 , Double - Blind AMRIX Trials AMRIX 15 mg N = 127 AMRIX 30 mg N = 126 Placebo N = 128 Dry mouth 6 % 14 % 2 % Dizziness 3 % 6 % 2 % Fatigue 3 % 3 % 2 % Constipation 1 % 3 % 0 % Somnolence 1 % 2 % 0 % Nausea 3 % 3 % 1 % Dyspepsia 0 % 4 % 1 % Table 6 : Incidence of the Most Common Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 3 % of Subjects in Any Treatment Group in the Seven - Day Pharmacokinetic Study of AMRIX AMRIX 30 mg N = 36 Somnolence 100 % Dry mouth 58 % Headache NOS 17 % Dizziness 19 % Vision blurred 3 % Nausea 8 % Dysgeusia 6 % Palpitations 6 % Tremor 6 % Dry throat 8 % Acne NOS 6 % Disturbance in attention 6 % Insomnia 0 In a postmarketing surveillance program ( 7607 patients treated with cyclobenzaprine 10 mg TID ) , the adverse reactions reported most frequently were drowsiness , dry mouth , and dizziness .
The incidence of these common adverse reactions was lower in the surveillance program than in the controlled clinical studies : Table 7 : Most Common Adverse Reactions from Postmarketing Surveillance Program Clinical Studies cyclobenzaprine 10 mg TID Surveillance Program cyclobenzaprine 10 mg TID Drowsiness 39 % 16 % Dry mouth 27 % 7 % Dizziness 11 % 3 % Among the less frequent adverse reactions , there was no appreciable difference in incidence in controlled clinical studies or in the surveillance program .
Adverse reactions which were reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : fatigue / tiredness , asthenia , nausea , constipation , dyspepsia , unpleasant taste , blurred vision , headache , nervousness , and confusion .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience or with an incidence of less than 1 % of patients in clinical trials with the 10 mg TID tablet : Body as a Whole : Syncope ; malaise .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia ; arrhythmia ; vasodilatation ; palpitation ; hypotension .
Digestive : Vomiting ; anorexia ; diarrhea ; gastrointestinal pain ; gastritis ; thirst ; flatulence ; edema of the tongue ; abnormal liver function and rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice , and cholestasis .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis ; angioedema ; pruritus ; facial edema ; urticaria ; rash .
Musculoskeletal : Local weakness .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Seizures , ataxia ; vertigo ; dysarthria ; tremors ; hypertonia ; convulsions ; muscle twitching ; disorientation ; insomnia ; depressed mood ; abnormal sensations ; anxiety ; agitation ; psychosis , abnormal thinking and dreaming ; hallucinations ; excitement ; paresthesia ; diplopia .
Skin : Sweating .
Special Senses : Ageusia ; tinnitus .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency and / or retention .
Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions , reported rarely for cyclobenzaprine under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established or reported for other tricyclic drugs , are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians : Body as a Whole : Chest pain ; edema .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension ; myocardial infarction ; heart block ; stroke .
Digestive : Paralytic ileus , tongue discoloration ; stomatitis ; parotid swelling .
Endocrine : Inappropriate ADH syndrome .
Hematic and Lymphatic : Purpura ; bone marrow depression ; leukopenia ; eosinophilia ; thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic , Nutritional and Immune : Elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels ; weight gain or loss .
Musculoskeletal : Myalgia .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Decreased or increased libido ; abnormal gait ; delusions ; aggressive behavior ; paranoia ; peripheral neuropathy ; Bell ’ s palsy ; alteration in EEG patterns ; extrapyramidal symptoms .
Respiratory : Dyspnea .
Skin : Photosensitization ; alopecia .
Urogenital : Impaired urination ; dilatation of urinary tract ; impotence ; testicular swelling ; gynecomastia ; breast enlargement ; galactorrhea .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic drugs require that certain withdrawal symptoms be considered when AMRIX is administered , even though they have not been reported to occur with this drug .
Abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged administration rarely may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
These are not indicative of addiction .
OVERDOSAGE Although rare , deaths may occur from overdosage with AMRIX .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate cyclobenzaprine overdose .
As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity may develop rapidly after cyclobenzaprine overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
The acute oral LD50 of cyclobenzaprine is approximately 338 and 425 mg / kg in mice and rats , respectively .
Manifestations The most common effects associated with cyclobenzaprine overdose are drowsiness and tachycardia .
Less frequent manifestations include tremor , agitation , coma , ataxia , hypertension , slurred speech , confusion , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , and hallucinations .
Rare but potentially critical manifestations of overdose are cardiac arrest , chest pain , cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , seizures , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of cyclobenzaprine toxicity .
Other potential effects of overdosage include any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Management General As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
In order to protect against the rare but potentially critical manifestations described above , obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line , and initiate gastric decontamination .
Observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is required .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Dialysis is probably of no value because of low plasma concentrations of the drug .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of an overdose with AMRIX should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage and emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Serum alkalinization , to a pH of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 , using intravenous sodium bicarbonate and hyperventilation ( as needed ) , should be instituted for patients with dysrhythmias and / or QRS widening .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mmHg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium , or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines or , if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in close consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of child and adult overdosage are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adult dose for most patients is one ( 1 ) AMRIX 15 mg capsule taken once daily .
Some patients may require up to 30 mg / day , given as one ( 1 ) AMRIX 30 mg capsule taken once daily or as two ( 2 ) AMRIX 15 mg capsules taken once daily .
It is recommended that doses be taken at approximately the same time each day .
Use of AMRIX for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Dosage Considerations for Special Patient Populations : AMRIX should not be used in the elderly or in patients with impaired hepatic function .
( see WARNINGS ) HOW SUPPLIED AMRIX extended - release capsules are available in 30 mg strengths , packaged in bottles of 60 capsules .
AMRIX 30 mg capsules ( NDC 21695 - 953 - 60 ) are blue / orange and are embossed in white ink with “ 30 mg ” on the body , and Cephalon “ C ” logo , “ Cephalon ” , and a dashed band on the cap .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Distributed by : Cephalon , Inc .
Frazer , PA 19355 Manufactured by : Eurand Inc .
Vandalia , Ohio 45377 AMRIX is a trademark of Cephalon , Inc . or its affiliates .
U . S . Patent No . 7 , 387 , 793 © 2004 , 2006 , 2007 , 2008 Cephalon , Inc . , or its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
PI - 40018 - 01 Revised December 2008 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
