Drug Facts Active ingredients Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain Warnings For external use only Do not use if pouch is damaged or opened .
Do not use • More than 1 patch on your body at a time or on cut , irritated or swollen skin • On puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor When using this product • Use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this pouch • Rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • Do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • Do not allow contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug products that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • You experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years : • Clean and dry affected area • Carefully remove backing film from patch • Apply one patch to affected area • Do not use more than 2 patches in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor .
Children under 12 years : Ask a doctor .
How to apply [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pull backing to separate it in the middle .
• Carefully remove one portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area .
• Once exposed portion of patch is positioned , remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate , glycerol , kaolin , methylparaben , polyacrylic acid , propylene glycol , propylparaben , pvp , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , tween 80 , water LONGER LASTING PAIN RELIEF LIDOCAINE PATCH √ For back , neck , leg & arm pain relieving ointment on a breathable adhesive pad 1 Patch | 3 - 15 / 16 ” x 5 - 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) Questions / Comments ?
www . flanax . com Call 1 888 779 2877 9 AM - 5 PM EST Distributed by : Belmora LLC 2011 Crystal Dr . Suite 400 , Arlington , VA 22202 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
