Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves mild to moderate aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with muscle soreness , strains , sprains , arthritis , simple backache , muscle stiffness , bruises .
Warnings Do not use on the face or rashes , on wounds or damaged skin , in the eyes , mouth , or other mucous membranes , on genitals , with a heating pad , any patch from a pouch that has been opened for 7 or more days .
Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to topical products , you are taking a diuretic , you have high blood pressure , heart disease , kidney disease , or you are pregnant .
When using this product wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and consult your physician if rash , irritation , or itching develops , or condition worsens .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a doctor before use while breastfeeding and during the first 6 months of pregnancy .
Do not use during the last 3 months of pregnancy because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
For external use only Keep out of reach of children .
If product is put in mouth , get medical help of contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Package is not child resistant .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together .
Directions Adults and children 12 years and over : apply 1 to 2 patches to the affected area of intact skin .
Lidocanna should be removed after 12 hours of continuous use and remain off for at least 12 hours .
Inactive ingredients Cannabidiol , eucalyptus oil , glycerin , glycol dihydroxy aluminum , lavender oil , peppermint oil , polyacrylic acid , propyl p - hydroxybenzoate , propylene glycol , tartaric acid , water Other information Some individuals may not experience pain relief until several minutes or hours after applying the patch .
Store in a cool , dry place .
Protect the product from excessive moisture or sunlight .
Store at 67 - 77 ° F ( 19 - 25 ° C ) .
Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
