DESCRIPTION Cephalexin , USP is a semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic intended for oral administration .
It is 7 - ( D - α - Amino - α - phenylacetamido ) - 3 - methyl - 3 - cephem - 4 - carboxylic acid monohydrate .
Cephalexin has the molecular formula C16H17N3O4S • H2O and the molecular weight is 365 . 41 .
Cephalexin has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The nucleus of cephalexin is related to that of other cephalosporin antibiotics .
The compound is a zwitterion ; i . e . , the molecule contains both a basic and an acidic group .
The isoelectric point of cephalexin in water is approximately 4 . 5 to 5 .
The crystalline form of cephalexin which is available is a monohydrate .
It is a white crystalline solid having a bitter taste .
Solubility in water is low at room temperature ; 1 or 2 mg / mL may be dissolved readily , but higher concentrations are obtained with increasing difficulty .
The cephalosporins differ from penicillins in the structure of the bicyclic ring system .
Cephalexin has a D - phenylglycyl group as substituent at the 7 - amino position and an unsubstituted methyl group at the 3 - position .
Each capsule contains cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg ( 720 μmol ) or 500 mg ( 1439 μmol ) of cephalexin .
The capsules also contain the following inactive ingredients : Croscarmellose Sodium , D & C Yellow No . 10 , F D & C Blue No . 1 , F D & C Yellow No . 6 , Gelatin , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Titanium Dioxide .
Ink constituents are : Black Iron Oxide , Butyl Alcohol , Dehydrated Alcohol , Isopropyl Alcohol , Potassium Hydroxide , Propylene Glycol , Shellac and Strong Ammonia Solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Human Pharmacology Cephalexin is acid stable and may be given without regard to meals .
It is rapidly absorbed after oral administration .
Following doses of 250 mg , 500 mg , and 1 g , average peak serum levels of approximately 9 , 18 , and 32 mcg / mL respectively were obtained at 1 hour .
Measurable levels were present 6 hours after administration .
Cephalexin is excreted in the urine by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion .
Studies showed that over 90 % of the drug was excreted unchanged in the urine within 8 hours .
During this period , peak urine concentrations following the 250 - mg , 500 - mg , and 1 - g doses were approximately 1000 , 2200 , and 5000 mcg / mL respectively .
Microbiology In vitro tests demonstrate that the cephalosporins are bactericidal because of their inhibition of cell - wall synthesis .
Cephalexin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobes , Gram - positive : Staphylococcus aureus ( including penicillinase - producing strains ) Staphylococcus epidermidis ( penicillin - susceptible strains ) Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes Aerobes , Gram - negative : Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella pneumoniae Moraxella ( Branhamella ) catarrhalis Proteus mirabilis Note - Methicillin - resistant staphylococci and most strains of enterococci ( Enterococcus faecalis [ formerly Streptococcus faecalis ] ) are resistant to cephalosporins , including cephalexin .
It is not active against most strains of Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , and Proteus vulgaris .
It has no activity against Pseudomonas spp .
or Acinetobacter calcoaceticus .
Susceptibility Tests Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure1 that has been recommended for use with disks to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to cephalexin uses the 30 - mcg cephalothin disk .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for cephalexin .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test with a 30 - mcg cephalothin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 ( S ) Susceptible 15 - 17 ( I ) Intermediate ≤ 14 ( R ) Resistant A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited by usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in blood .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in the blood are unlikely to be inhibitory and that other therapy should be selected .
Measurement of MIC or MBC and achieved antimicrobial compound concentrations may be appropriate to guide therapy in some infections .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section for information on drug concentrations achieved in infected body sites and other pharmacokinetic properties of this antimicrobial drug product . )
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms .
The 30 - mcg cephalothin disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) E . coli ATCC 25922 15 - 21 S . aureus ATCC 25923 29 - 37 Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods that are used to determine MICs provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure uses a standardized dilution method2 ( broth , agar , microdilution ) or equivalent with cephalothin powder .
The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 ( S ) Susceptible 6 ( I ) Intermediate ≥ 32 ( R ) Resistant Interpretation should be as stated above for results using diffusion techniques .
As with standard diffusion techniques , dilution methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms .
Standard cephalothin powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) E . coli ATCC 25922 4 - 16 S . aureus ATCC 29213 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of the following infections when caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms : Respiratory tract infections caused by S . pneumoniae and S . pyogenes ( Penicillin is the usual drug of choice in the treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cephalexin is generally effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , substantial data establishing the efficacy of cephalexin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available at present . )
Otitis media due to S . pneumoniae , H . influenzae , staphylococci , streptococci , and M . catarrhalis Skin and skin structure infections caused by staphylococci and / or streptococci Bone infections caused by staphylococci and / or P . mirabilis Genitourinary tract infections , including acute prostatitis , caused by E . coli , P . mirabilis , and K . pneumoniae Note - Culture and susceptibility tests should be initiated prior to and during therapy .
Renal function studies should be performed when indicated .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin capsules , USP and other antibacterial drugs , cephalexin capsules , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cephalexin is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE CEPHALEXIN THERAPY IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEPHALOSPORINS AND PENICILLIN . CEPHALOSPORIN C DERIVATIVES SHOULD BE GIVEN CAUTIOUSLY TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
There is some clinical and laboratory evidence of partial cross - allergenicity of the penicillins and the cephalosporins .
Patients have been reported to have had severe reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) to both drugs .
Any patient who has demonstrated some form of allergy , particularly to drugs , should receive antibiotics cautiously .
No exception should be made with regard to cephalexin .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including cephalexin , and may range from mild to life threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , appropriate therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis .
Usage in Pregnancy : Safety of this product for use during pregnancy has not been established .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing cephalexin capsules , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Patients should be followed carefully so that any side effects or unusual manifestations of drug idiosyncrasy may be detected .
If an allergic reaction to cephalexin occurs , the drug should be discontinued and the patient treated with the usual agents ( e . g . , epinephrine or other pressor amines , antihistamines , or corticosteroids ) .
Prolonged use of cephalexin may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Positive direct Coombs ' tests have been reported during treatment with the cephalosporin antibiotics .
In hematologic studies or in transfusion cross - matching procedures when antiglobulin tests are performed on the minor side or in Coombs ' testing of newborns whose mothers have received cephalosporin antibiotics before parturition , it should be recognized that a positive Coombs ' test may be due to the drug .
Cephalexin should be administered with caution in the presence of markedly impaired renal function .
Under such conditions , careful clinical observation and laboratory studies should be made because safe dosage may be lower than that usually recommended .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
As a result of administration of cephalexin , a false - positive reaction of glucose in the urine may occur .
This has been observed with Benedict ' s and Fehling ' s solutions and also with Clinitest ® tablets .
Broad - spectrum antibiotics should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including cephalexin capsules , USP should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cephalexin capsules , USP is prescribed to treat bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cephalexin capsules , USP or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Drug Interactions Metformin : In healthy subjects given single 500 mg doses of cephalexin and metformin , plasma metformin Cmax and AUC increased by an average of 34 % and 24 % , respectively , and metformin renal clearance decreased by 14 % .
No information is available about the interaction of cephalexin and metformin following multiple doses of either drug .
Although not observed in this study , adverse effects could potentially arise from co - administration of cephalexin and metformin by inhibition of tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter systems .
Accordingly , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin .
Probenecid : As with other ß - lactams , the renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid .
Usage in Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category B The daily oral administration of cephalexin to rats in doses of 250 or 500 mg / kg prior to and during pregnancy , or to rats and mice during the period of organogenesis only , had no adverse effect on fertility , fetal viability , fetal weight , or litter size .
Note that the safety of cephalexin during pregnancy in humans has not been established .
Cephalexin showed no enhanced toxicity in weanling and newborn rats as compared with adult animals .
Nevertheless , because the studies in humans cannot rule out the possibility of harm , cephalexin should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers The excretion of cephalexin in the milk increased up to 4 hours after a 500 - mg dose ; the drug reached a maximum level of 4 mcg / mL , then decreased gradually , and had disappeared 8 hours after administration .
Caution should be exercised when cephalexin is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Of the 701 subjects in 3 published clinical studies of cephalexin , 433 ( 62 % ) were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal : Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis may appear either during or after antibiotic treatment .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
The most frequent side effect has been diarrhea .
It was very rarely severe enough to warrant cessation of therapy .
Dyspepsia , gastritis , and abdominal pain have also occurred .
As with some penicillins and some other cephalosporins , transient hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice have been reported rarely .
Hypersensitivity : Allergic reactions in the form of rash , urticaria , angioedema , and , rarely , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , or toxic epidermal necrolysis have been observed .
These reactions usually subsided upon discontinuation of the drug .
In some of these reactions , supportive therapy may be necessary .
Anaphylaxis has also been reported .
Other reactions have included genital and anal pruritus , genital moniliasis , vaginitis and vaginal discharge , dizziness , fatigue , headache , agitation , confusion , hallucinations , arthralgia , arthritis , and joint disorder .
Reversible interstitial nephritis has been reported rarely .
Eosinophilia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and slight elevations in AST and ALT have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms : Symptoms of oral overdose may include nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , and hematuria .
If other symptoms are present , it is probably secondary to an underlying disease state , an allergic reaction , or toxicity due to ingestion of a second medication .
Treatment : To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Unless 5 to 10 times the normal dose of cephalexin has been ingested , gastrointestinal decontamination should not be necessary .
Protect the patient ' s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
Meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ' s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ' s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of cephalexin ; however , it would be extremely unlikely that one of these procedures would be indicated .
The oral median lethal dose of cephalexin in rats is > 5000 mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cephalexin is administered orally .
Adults : The adult dosage ranges from 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses .
The usual adult dose is 250 mg every 6 hours .
For the following infections , a dosage of 500 mg may be administered every 12 hours : streptococcal pharyngitis , skin and skin structure infections , and uncomplicated cystitis in patients over 15 years of age .
Cystitis therapy should be continued for 7 to 14 days .
For more severe infections or those caused by less susceptible organisms , larger doses may be needed .
If daily doses of cephalexin greater than 4 g are required , parenteral cephalosporins , in appropriate doses , should be considered .
Pediatric Patients : The usual recommended daily dosage for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg / kg in divided doses .
For streptococcal pharyngitis in patients over 1 year of age and for skin and skin structure infections , the total daily dose may be divided and administered every 12 hours .
In severe infections , the dosage may be doubled .
In the therapy of otitis media , clinical studies have shown that a dosage of 75 to 100 mg / kg / day in 4 divided doses is required .
In the treatment of ß - hemolytic streptococcal infections , a therapeutic dosage of cephalexin should be administered for at least 10 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Cephalexin capsules , USP are available in : The 250 mg capsules are white opaque body imprinted with “ KLX ” in black ink and green opaque cap imprinted with “ 140 ” in black ink .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 42043 - 140 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 42043 - 140 - 05 The 500 mg capsules are light green opaque body imprinted with “ KLX ” in black ink and green opaque cap imprinted with “ 141 ” in black ink .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 42043 - 141 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 42043 - 141 - 05 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards : Performance standards for antimicrobial disk susceptibility tests - 5 th ed .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A5 , Vol . 13 , No . 24 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , 1993 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards : Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically - 3 rd ed .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A3 , Vol . 13 , No . 25 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , 1993 .
Distributed by : Distributed By : Strategic Pharmaceutical Solutions , Inc .
DBA VetSource Portland , OR 97230 ( VetSource Rev . 07 - 2010 ) Cephalexin Capsules , USP 250 mg NDC : 49364 - 110 - 45 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cephalexin Capsules , USP 500 mg NDC : 49364 - 111 - 45 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
