Rx only WARNING Severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with isoniazid therapy has been reported and may occur or may develop even after many months of treatment .
The risk of developing hepatitis is age related .
Approximate case rates by age are : less than 1 per 1 , 000 for persons under 20 years of age , 3 per 1 , 000 for persons in the 20 to 34 year age group , 12 per 1 , 000 for persons in the 35 to 49 year age group , 23 per 1 , 000 for persons in the 50 to 64 year age group and 8 per 1 , 000 for persons over 65 years of age .
The risk of hepatitis is increased with daily consumption of alcohol .
Precise data to provide a fatality rate for isoniazid - related hepatitis is not available ; however , in a U . S . Public Health Service Surveillance Study of 13 , 838 persons taking isoniazid , there were 8 deaths among 174 cases of hepatitis .
Therefore , patients given isoniazid should be carefully monitored and interviewed at monthly intervals .
For persons 35 and older , in addition to monthly symptom reviews , hepatic enzymes ( specifically , AST and ALT [ formerly SGOT and SGPT , respectively ] ) should be measured prior to starting isoniazid therapy and periodically throughout treatment .
Isoniazid - associated hepatitis usually occurs during the first three months of treatment .
Usually , enzyme levels return to normal despite continuance of drug , but in some cases progressive liver dysfunction occurs .
Other factors associated with an increased risk of hepatitis include daily use of alcohol , chronic liver disease and injection drug use .
A recent report suggests an increased risk of fatal hepatitis associated with isoniazid among women , particularly black and Hispanic women .
The risk may also be increased during the post partum period .
More careful monitoring should be considered in these groups , possibly including more frequent laboratory monitoring .
If abnormalities of liver function exceed three to five times the upper limit of normal , discontinuation of isoniazid should be strongly considered .
Liver function tests are not a substitute for a clinical evaluation at monthly intervals or for the prompt assessment of signs or symptoms of adverse reactions occurring between regularly scheduled evaluations .
Patients should be instructed to immediately report signs or symptoms consistent with liver damage or other adverse effects .
These include any of the following : unexplained anorexia , nausea , vomiting , dark urine , icterus , rash , persistent paresthesias of the hands and feet , persistent fatigue , weakness or fever of greater than 3 days duration and / or abdominal tenderness , especially right upper quadrant discomfort .
If these symptoms appear or if signs suggestive of hepatic damage are detected , isoniazid should be discontinued promptly , since continued use of the drug in these cases has been reported to cause a more severe form of liver damage .
Patients with tuberculosis who have hepatitis attributed to isoniazid should be given appropriate treatment with alternative drugs .
If isoniazid must be reinstituted , it should be reinstituted only after symptoms and laboratory abnormalities have cleared .
The drug should be restarted in very small and gradually increasing doses and should be withdrawn immediately if there is any indication of recurrent liver involvement .
Preventive treatment should be deferred in persons with acute hepatic diseases .
DESCRIPTION Isoniazid , USP is an antibacterial available as 100 mg and 300 mg tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet also contains as inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydrogenated vegetable oil , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized corn starch and talc .
Isoniazid , USP is chemically known as isonicotinyl hydrazine or isonicotinic acid hydrazide .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C6H7N3O M . W . 137 . 14 Isoniazid , USP is odorless , and occurs as a colorless or white crystalline powder or as white crystals .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol and slightly soluble in chloroform and in ether .
Isoniazid , USP is slowly affected by exposure to air and light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Within 1 to 2 hours after oral administration , isoniazid produces peak blood levels which decline to 50 percent or less within 6 hours .
It diffuses readily into all body fluids ( cerebrospinal , pleural and ascitic fluids ) , tissues , organs and excreta ( saliva , sputum and feces ) .
The drug also passes through the placental barrier and into milk in concentrations comparable to those in the plasma .
From 50 to 70 percent of a dose of isoniazid is excreted in the urine in 24 hours .
Isoniazid is metabolized primarily by acetylation and dehydrazination .
The rate of acetylation is genetically determined .
Approximately 50 percent of Blacks and Caucasians are “ slow inactivators ” and the rest are “ rapid inactivators ” ; the majority of Eskimos and Orientals are “ rapid inactivators . ”
The rate of acetylation does not significantly alter the effectiveness of isoniazid .
However , slow acetylation may lead to higher blood levels of the drug and , thus , to an increase in toxic reactions .
Pyridoxine ( vitamin B6 ) deficiency is sometimes observed in adults with high doses of isoniazid and is considered probably due to its competition with pyridoxal phosphate for the enzyme apotryptophanase .
Mechanism of Action Isoniazid inhibits the synthesis of mycoloic acids , an essential component of the bacterial cell wall .
At therapeutic levels isoniazid is bactericidal against actively growing intracellular and extracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis organisms .
Resistance Resistance to isoniazid occurs because of mutations in the katG , inhA , kasA and ahpC genes .
Resistance in M . tuberculosis develops rapidly when isoniazid monotherapy is administered .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isoniazid tablets are recommended for all forms of tuberculosis in which organisms are susceptible .
However , active tuberculosis must be treated with multiple concomitant anti - tuberculosis medications to prevent the emergence of drug resistance .
Single - drug treatment of active tuberculosis with isoniazid or any other medication , is inadequate therapy .
Isoniazid tablets are recommended as preventive therapy for the following groups , regardless of age .
( Note : the criterion for a positive reaction to a skin test ( in millimeters of induration ) for each group is given in parenthesis ) : • Persons with human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection ( greater than or equal to 5 mm ) and persons with risk factors for HIV infection whose HIV infection status is unknown but who are suspected of having HIV infection .
Preventive therapy may be considered for HIV infected persons who are tuberculin - negative but belong to groups in which the prevalence of tuberculosis infection is high .
Candidates for preventive therapy who have HIV infection should have a minimum of 12 months of therapy .
• Close contacts of persons with newly diagnosed infectious tuberculosis ( greater than or equal to 5 mm ) .
In addition , tuberculin - negative ( less than 5 mm ) children and adolescents who have been close contacts of infectious persons within the past 3 months are candidates for preventive therapy until a repeat tuberculin skin test is done 12 weeks after contact with the infectious source .
If the repeat skin test is positive ( greater than 5 mm ) , therapy should be continued .
• Recent converters , as indicated by a tuberculin skin test ( greater than or equal to 10 mm increase within a 2 - year period for those less than 35 years old ; greater than or equal to 15 mm increase for those greater than or equal to 35 years of age ) .
All infants and children younger than 4 years of age with a greater than 10 mm skin test are included in this category .
• Persons with abnormal chest radiographs that show fibrotic lesions likely to represent old healed tuberculosis ( greater than or equal to 5 mm ) .
Candidates for preventive therapy who have fibrotic pulmonary lesions consistent with healed tuberculosis or who have pulmonary silicosis should have 12 months of isoniazid or 4 months of isoniazid and rifampin , concomitantly .
• Intravenous drug users known to be HIV - seronegative ( greater than 10 mm ) .
• Persons with the following medical conditions that have been reported to increase the risk of tuberculosis ( greater than or equal to 10 mm ) : silicosis ; diabetes mellitus ; prolonged therapy with adrenocorticosteroids ; immunosuppressive therapy ; some hematologic and reticuloendothelial diseases , such as leukemia or Hodgkin ’ s disease ; end - stage renal disease ; clinical situations associated with substantial rapid weight loss or chronic undernutrition ( including : intestinal bypass surgery for obesity , the postgastrectomy state [ with or without weight loss ] , chronic peptic ulcer disease , chronic malabsorption syndromes and carcinomas of the oropharynx and upper gastrointestinal tract that prevent adequate nutritional intake ) .
Candidates for preventive therapy who have fibrotic pulmonary lesions consistent with healed tuberculosis or who have pulmonary silicosis should have 12 months of isoniazid or 4 months of isoniazid and rifampin , concomitantly .
Additionally , in the absence of any of the above risk factors , persons under the age of 35 with a tuberculin skin test reaction of 10 mm or more are also appropriate candidates for preventive therapy if they are a member of any of the following high - incidence groups : • Foreign - born persons from high - prevalence countries who never received BCG vaccine .
• Medically underserved low - income populations , including high - risk racial or ethnic minority populations , especially blacks , Hispanics and Native Americans .
• Residents of facilities for long - term care ( e . g . , correctional institutions , nursing homes and mental institutions ) .
Children who are less than 4 years old are candidates for isoniazid preventive therapy if they have greater than 10 mm induration from a PPD Mantoux tuberculin skin test .
Finally , persons under the age of 35 who a ) have none of the above risk factors ( 1 to 6 ) ; b ) belong to none of the high - incidence groups ; and c ) have a tuberculin skin test reaction of 15 mm or more , are appropriate candidates for preventive therapy .
The risk of hepatitis must be weighed against the risk of tuberculosis in positive tuberculin reactors over the age of 35 .
However , the use of isoniazid is recommended for those with the additional risk factors listed above ( 1 to 6 ) and on an individual basis in situations where there is likelihood of serious consequences to contacts who may become infected .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Isoniazid is contraindicated in patients who develop severe hypersensitivity reactions , including drug - induced hepatitis ; previous isoniazid - associated hepatic injury ; severe adverse reactions to isoniazid such as drug fever , chills , arthritis ; and acute liver disease of any etiology .
WARNINGS See the boxed warning .
PRECAUTIONS General All drugs should be stopped and an evaluation made at the first sign of a hypersensitivity reaction .
If isoniazid therapy must be reinstituted , the drug should be given only after symptoms have cleared .
The drug should be restarted in very small and gradually increasing doses and should be withdrawn immediately if there is any indication of recurrent hypersensitivity reaction .
Use of isoniazid should be carefully monitored in the following : • Daily users of alcohol .
Daily ingestion of alcohol may be associated with a higher incidence of + isoniazid hepatitis .
• Patients with active chronic liver disease or severe renal dysfunction .
• Age greater than 35 .
• Concurrent use of any chronically administered medication .
• History of previous discontinuation of isoniazid .
• Existence of peripheral neuropathy or conditions predisposing to neuropathy .
• Pregnancy .
• Injection drug use .
• Women belonging to minority groups , particularly in the postpartum period .
• HIV seropositive patients .
Laboratory Tests Because there is a higher frequency of isoniazid associated hepatitis among certain patient groups , including Age greater than 35 , daily users of alcohol , chronic liver disease , injection drug use and women belonging to minority groups , particularly in the post - partum period , transaminase measurements should be obtained prior to starting and monthly during preventative therapy or more frequently as needed .
If any of the values exceed three to five times the upper limit of normal , isoniazid should be temporarily discontinued and consideration given to restarting therapy .
Drug Interactions Food Isoniazid should not be administered with food .
Studies have shown that the bioavailability of isoniazid is reduced significantly when administered with food .
Tyramine - and histamine - containing foods should be avoided in patients receiving isoniazid .
Because isoniazid has some monoamine oxidase inhibiting activity , an interaction with tyramine - containing foods ( cheese , red wine ) may occur .
Diamine oxidase may also be inhibited , causing exaggerated response ( e . g . , headache , sweating , palpitations , flushing , hypotension ) to foods containing histamine ( e . g . , skipjack , tuna , other tropical fish ) .
Acetaminophen A report of severe acetaminophen toxicity was reported in a patient receiving isoniazid .
It is believed that the toxicity may have resulted from a previously unrecognized interaction between isoniazid and acetaminophen and a molecular basis for this interaction has been proposed .
However , current evidence suggests that isoniazid does induce P - 450IIE1 , a mixed - function oxidase enzyme that appears to generate the toxic metabolites , in the liver .
Furthermore it has been proposed that isoniazid resulted in induction of P - 450IIE1 in the patient ’ s liver which , in turn , resulted in a greater proportion of the ingested acetaminophen being converted to the toxic metabolites .
Studies have demonstrated that pretreatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in rats1 , 2 .
Carbamazepine Isoniazid is known to slow the metabolism of carbamazepine and increase its serum levels .
Carbamazepine levels should be determined prior to concurrent administration with isoniazid , signs and symptoms of carbamazepine toxicity should be monitored closely and appropriate dosage adjustment of the anticonvulsant should be made3 .
Ketoconazole Potential interaction of ketoconazole and isoniazid may exist .
When ketoconazole is given in combination with isoniazid and rifampin the AUC of ketoconazole is decreased by as much as 88 percent after 5 months of concurrent isoniazid and rifampin therapy4 .
Phenytoin Isoniazid may increase serum levels of phenytoin .
To avoid phenytoin intoxication , appropriate adjustment of the anticonvulsant should be made5 , 6 .
Theophylline A recent study has shown that concomitant administration of isoniazid and theophylline may cause elevated plasma levels of theophylline and in some instances a slight decrease in the elimination of isoniazid .
Since the therapeutic range of theophylline is narrow , theophylline serum levels should be monitored closely and appropriate dosage adjustments of theophylline should be made7 .
Valproate A recent case study has shown a possible increase in the plasma level of valproate when co - administered with isoniazid .
Plasma valproate concentration should be monitored when isoniazid and valproate are co - administered and appropriate dosage adjustments of valproate should be made5 .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis Isoniazid has been shown to induce pulmonary tumors in a number of strains of mice .
Isoniazid has not been shown to be carcinogenic in humans .
( Note : a diagnosis of mesothelioma in a child with prenatal exposure to isoniazid and no other apparent risk factors has been reported ) .
Isoniazid has been found to be weakly mutagenic in strains TA 100 and TA 1535 of Salmonella typhimurium ( Ames assay ) without metabolic activation .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Isoniazid has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rats and rabbits when given orally during pregnancy .
Isoniazid was not teratogenic in reproduction studies in mice , rats and rabbits .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Isoniazid should be used as a treatment for active tuberculosis during pregnancy because the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The benefit of preventive therapy also should be weighed against a possible risk to the fetus .
Preventive therapy generally should be started after delivery to prevent putting the fetus at risk of exposure ; the low levels of isoniazid in breast milk do not threaten the neonate .
Since isoniazid is known to cross the placental barrier , neonates of isoniazid treated mothers should be carefully observed for any evidence of adverse effects .
Nonteratogenic Effects Since isoniazid is known to cross the placental barrier , neonates of isoniazid - treated mothers should be carefully observed for any evidence of adverse effects .
Nursing Mothers The small concentrations of isoniazid in breast milk do not produce toxicity in the nursing newborn ; therefore , breast feeding should not be discouraged .
However , because levels of isoniazid are so low in breast milk , they cannot be relied upon for prophylaxis or therapy of nursing infants .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent reactions are those affecting the nervous system and the liver .
Nervous System Reactions Peripheral neuropathy is the most common toxic effect .
It is dose - related , occurs most often in the malnourished and in those predisposed to neuritis ( e . g . , alcoholics and diabetics ) and is usually preceded by paresthesias of the feet and hands .
The incidence is higher in “ slow inactivators ” .
Other neurotoxic effects , which are uncommon with conventional doses , are convulsions , toxic encephalopathy , optic neuritis and atrophy , memory impairment and toxic psychosis .
Hepatic Reactions See boxed warning .
Elevated serum transaminase ( SGOT ; SGPT ) , bilirubinemia , bilirubinuria , jaundice and occasionally severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis .
The common prodromal symptoms of hepatitis are anorexia , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , malaise and weakness .
Mild hepatic dysfunction , evidenced by mild and transient elevation of serum transaminase levels occurs in 10 to 20 percent of patients taking isoniazid .
This abnormality usually appears in the first 1 to 3 months of treatment but can occur at any time during therapy .
In most instances , enzyme levels return to normal and generally , there is no necessity to discontinue medication during the period of mild serum transaminase elevation .
In occasional instances , progressive liver damage occurs , with accompanying symptoms .
If the SGOT value exceeds three to five times the upper limit of normal , discontinuation of the isoniazid should be strongly considered .
The frequency of progressive liver damage increases with age .
It is rare in persons under 20 , but occurs in up to 2 . 3 percent of those over 50 years of age .
Gastrointestinal Reactions Nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , and pancreatitis .
Hematologic Reactions Agranulocytosis ; hemolytic , sideroblastic or aplastic anemia , thrombocytopenia ; and eosinophilia .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Fever , skin eruptions ( morbilliform , maculopapular , purpuric or exfoliative ) , lymphadenopathy , vasculitis , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and drug reaction with eosinophilia syndrome ( DRESS ) .
Metabolic and Endocrine Reactions Pyridoxine deficiency , pellagra , hyperglycemia , metabolic acidosis and gynecomastia .
Miscellaneous Reactions Rheumatic syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus - like syndrome .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Isoniazid overdosage produces signs and symptoms within 30 minutes to 3 hours after ingestion .
Nausea , vomiting , dizziness , slurring of speech , blurring of vision and visual hallucinations ( including bright colors and strange designs ) are among the early manifestations .
With marked overdosage , respiratory distress and CNS depression , progressing rapidly from stupor to profound coma , are to be expected , along with severe , intractable seizures .
Severe metabolic acidosis , acetonuria and hyperglycemia are typical laboratory findings .
Treatment Untreated or inadequately treated cases of gross isoniazid overdosage , 80 mg / kg to 150 mg / kg , can cause neurotoxicity6 and terminate fatally , but good response has been reported in most patients brought under adequate treatment within the first few hours after drug ingestion .
For the Asymptomatic Patient Absorption of drugs from the GI tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal .
Gastric emptying should also be employed in the asymptomatic patient .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing these procedures .
Patients who acutely ingest greater than 80 mg / kg should be treated with intravenous pyridoxine on a gram per gram basis equal to the isoniazid dose .
If an unknown amount of isoniazid is ingested , consider an initial dose of 5 grams of pyridoxine given over 30 to 60 minutes in adults or 80 mg / kg of pyridoxine in children .
For the Symptomatic Patient Ensure adequate ventilation , support cardiac output and protect the airway while treating seizures and attempting to limit absorption .
If the dose of isoniazid is known , the patient should be treated initially with a slow intravenous bolus of pyridoxine , over 3 to 5 minutes , on a gram per gram basis , equal to the isoniazid dose .
If the quantity of isoniazid ingestion is unknown , then consider an initial intravenous bolus of pyridoxine of 5 grams in the adult or 80 mg / kg in the child .
If seizures continue , the dosage of pyridoxine may be repeated .
It would be rare that more than 10 grams of pyridoxine would need to be given .
The maximum safe dose for pyridoxine in isoniazid intoxication is not known .
If the patient does not respond to pyridoxine , diazepam may be administered .
Phenytoin should be used cautiously , because isoniazid interferes with the metabolism of phenytoin .
General Obtain blood samples for immediate determination of gases , electrolytes , BUN , glucose , etc . ; type and cross - match blood in preparation for possible hemodialysis .
Rapid Control of Metabolic Acidosis Patients with this degree of INH intoxication are likely to have hypoventilation .
The administration of sodium bicarbonate under these circumstances can cause exacerbation of hypercarbia .
Ventilation must be monitored carefully , by measuring blood carbon dioxide levels and supported mechanically , if there is respiratory insufficiency .
Dialysis Both peritoneal and hemodialysis have been used in the management of isoniazid overdosage .
These procedures are probably not required if control of seizures and acidosis is achieved with pyridoxine , diazepam and bicarbonate .
Along with measures based on initial and repeated determination of blood gases and other laboratory tests as needed , utilize meticulous respiratory and other intensive care to protect against hypoxia , hypotension , aspiration , pneumonitis , etc .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( See also INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) NOTE For preventive therapy of tuberculous infection and treatment of tuberculosis , it is recommended that physicians be familiar with the following publications : ( 1 ) the recommendations of the Advisory Council for the Elimination of Tuberculosis , published in the MMWR : vol 42 ; RR - 4 , 1993 and ( 2 ) Treatment of Tuberculosis and Tuberculosis Infection in Adults and Children , American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine : vol 149 ; 1359 - 1374 , 1994 .
For Treatment of Tuberculosis Isoniazid is used in conjunction with other effective anti - tuberculous agents .
Drug susceptibility testing should be performed on the organisms initially isolated from all patients with newly diagnosed tuberculosis .
If the bacilli becomes resistant , therapy must be changed to agents to which the bacilli are susceptible .
Usual Oral Dosage ( depending on the regimen used ) : Adults 5 mg / kg up to 300 mg daily in a single dose ; or 15 mg / kg up to 900 mg / day , two or three times / week Children 10 mg / kg to 15 mg / kg up to 300 mg daily in a single dose ; or 20 mg / kg to 40 mg / kg up to 900 mg / day , two or three times / week Patients with Pulmonary Tuberculosis Without HIV Infection There are 3 regimen options for the initial treatment of tuberculosis in children and adults : Option 1 Daily isoniazid , rifampin and pyrazinamide for 8 weeks followed by 16 weeks of isoniazid and rifampin daily or 2 to 3 times weekly .
Ethambutol or streptomycin should be added to the initial regimen until sensitivity to isoniazid and rifampin is demonstrated .
The addition of a fourth drug is optional if the relative prevalence of isoniazid - resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates in the community is less than or equal to four percent .
Option 2 Daily isoniazid , rifampin , pyrazinamide and streptomycin or ethambutol for 2 weeks followed by twice weekly administration of the same drugs for 6 weeks , subsequently twice weekly isoniazid and rifampin for 16 weeks .
Option 3 Three times weekly with isoniazid , rifampin , pyrazinamide and ethambutol or streptomycin for 6 months .
* All regimens given twice weekly or 3 times weekly should be administered by directly observed therapy [ see also Directly Observed Therapy ( DOT ) ] .
The above treatment guidelines apply only when the disease is caused by organisms that are susceptible to the standard antituberculous agents .
Because of the impact of resistance to isoniazid and rifampin on the response to therapy , it is essential that physicians initiating therapy for tuberculosis be familiar with the prevalence of drug resistance in their communities .
It is suggested that ethambutol not be used in children whose visual acuity cannot be monitored .
Patients with Pulmonary Tuberculosis and HIV Infection The response of the immunologically impaired host to treatment may not be as satisfactory as that of a person with normal host responsiveness .
For this reason , therapeutic decisions for the impaired host must be individualized .
Since patients co - infected with HIV may have problems with malabsorption , screening of antimycobacterial drug levels , especially in patients with advanced HIV disease , may be necessary to prevent the emergence of MDRTB .
Patients with Extra Pulmonary Tuberculosis The basic principles that underlie the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis also apply to extra pulmonary forms of the disease .
Although there have not been the same kinds of carefully conducted controlled trials of treatment of extra pulmonary tuberculosis as for pulmonary disease , increasing clinical experience indicates that a 6 to 9 month short - course regimen is effective .
Because of the insufficient data , miliary tuberculosis , bone / joint tuberculosis and tuberculous meningitis in infants and children should receive 12 month therapy .
Bacteriologic evaluation of extra pulmonary tuberculosis may be limited by the relative inaccessibility of the sites of disease .
Thus , response to treatment often must be judged on the basis of clinical and radiographic findings .
The use of adjunctive therapies such as surgery and corticosteroids is more commonly required in extra pulmonary tuberculosis than in pulmonary disease .
Surgery may be necessary to obtain specimens for diagnosis and to treat such processes as constrictive pericarditis and spinal cord compression from Pott ’ s Disease .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be of benefit in preventing cardiac constriction from tuberculous pericarditis and in decreasing the neurologic sequelae of all stages of tuberculosis meningitis , especially when administered early in the course of the disease .
Pregnant Women with Tuberculosis The options listed above must be adjusted for the pregnant patient .
Streptomycin interferes with in utero development of the ear and may cause congenital deafness .
Routine use of pyrazinamide is also not recommended in pregnancy because of inadequate teratogenicity data .
The initial treatment regimen should consist of isoniazid and rifampin .
Ethambutol should be included unless primary isoniazid resistance is unlikely ( isoniazid resistance rate documented to be less than 4 % ) .
Treatment of Patients with Multi - Drug Resistant Tuberculosis ( MDRTB ) Multiple - drug resistant tuberculosis ( i . e . , resistance to at least isoniazid and rifampin ) presents difficult treatment problems .
Treatment must be individualized and based on susceptibility studies .
In such cases , consultation with an expert in tuberculosis is recommended .
Directly Observed Therapy ( DOT ) A major cause of drug - resistant tuberculosis is patient noncompliance with treatment .
The use of DOT can help assure patient compliance with drug therapy .
DOT is the observation of the patient by a health care provider or other responsible person as the patient ingests anti - tuberculosis medications .
DOT can be achieved with daily , twice weekly or thrice weekly regimens and is recommended for all patients .
For Preventative Therapy of Tuberculosis Before isoniazid preventive therapy is initiated , bacteriologically positive or radiographically progressive tuberculosis must be excluded .
Appropriate evaluations should be performed if extra pulmonary tuberculosis is suspected .
Adults over 30 kg : 300 mg per day in a single dose .
Infants and Children : 10 mg / kg ( up to 300 mg daily ) in a single dose .
In situations where adherence with daily preventative therapy cannot be assured , 20 mg / kg to 30 mg / kg ( not to exceed 900 mg ) twice weekly under the direct observation of a health care worker at the time of administration8 .
Continuous administration of isoniazid for a sufficient period is an essential part of the regimen because relapse rates are higher if chemotherapy is stopped prematurely .
In the treatment of tuberculosis , resistant organisms may multiply and the emergence of resistant organisms during the treatment may necessitate a change in the regimen .
For following patient compliance : the Potts - Cozart test9 , a simple colorimetric6 method of checking for isoniazid in the urine , is a useful tool for assuring patient compliance , which is essential for effective tuberculosis control .
Additionally , isoniazid test strips are also available to check patient compliance .
Concomitant administration of pyridoxine ( B6 ) is recommended in the malnourished and in those predisposed to neuropathy ( e . g . , alcoholics and diabetics ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0370 NDC : 50090 - 0370 - 1 100 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0370 - 3 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0370 - 0 50 TABLET in a BOTTLE Isoniazid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
