WARNING : LIFE THREATENING PROARRHYTHMIA To minimize the risk of drug - induced arrhythmia , initiate or reinitiate oral sotalol in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring .
Sotalol can cause life threatening ventricular tachycardia associated with QT interval prolongation .
If the QT interval prolongs to 500 msec or greater , reduce the dose , lengthen the dosing interval , or discontinue the drug .
Calculate creatinine clearance to determine appropriate dosing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
WARNING : LIFE THREATENING PROARRHYTHMIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Sotalol can cause life threatening ventricular tachycardia associated with QT interval prolongation .
• • If the QT interval prolongs to 500 msec or greater , reduce the dose , lengthen the dosing interval , or discontinue the drug .
• • Initiate or reinitiate in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring .
• • Adjust the dosing interval based on creatinine clearance .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for : • • the treatment of life threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1 . 1 ) • • the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter ( AFIB / AFL ) ( 1 . 2 ) Limitations of Use • • Avoid use in patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contraction ( 1 . 1 ) • • Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB / AFL ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Life - Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of life - threatening , documented ventricular arrhythmias , such as sustained ventricular tachycardia ( VT ) .
Limitation of Use : Sotalol hydrochloride tablets may not enhance survival in patients with ventricular arrhythmias .
Because of the proarrhythmic effects of sotalol hydrochloride tablets , including a 1 . 5 to 2 % rate of Torsade de Pointes ( TdP ) or new ventricular tachycardia / fibrillation ( VT / VF ) in patients with either non - sustained ventricular tachycardia ( NSVT ) or supraventricular arrhythmias ( SVT ) , its use in patients with less severe arrhythmias , even if the patients are symptomatic , is generally not recommended .
Avoid treatment of patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contractions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation / Atrial Flutter ( AFIB / AFL ) Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm ( delay in time to recurrence of AFIB / AFL ) in patients with symptomatic AFIB / AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm .
Limitation of Use : Because sotalol hydrochloride tablets can cause life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias , reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB / AFL is highly symptomatic .
Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed ( by Valsalva maneuver , for example ) should usually not be given sotalol hydrochloride tablets .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Sotalol hydrochloride tablets : Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily .
Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg / day , every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2 . 2 ) • • Pediatrics : Dosage depends on age ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride tablets and monitor carefully for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half - lives if the patient ' s clinical condition permits [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Hospitalize patients initiated or re - initiated on sotalol for at least 3 days or until steady - state drug levels are achieved , in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring .
Initiate oral sotalol therapy in the presence of personnel trained in the management of serious arrhythmias .
Perform a baseline ECG to determine the QT interval and measure and normalize serum potassium and magnesium levels before initiating therapy .
Measure serum creatinine and calculate an estimated creatinine clearance in order to establish the appropriate dosing interval ( insert cross ref to renal dosing ) .
Continually monitor patients with each uptitration in dose , until they reach steady state .
Determine QTc 2 to 4 hours after every dose .
Discharge patients on sotalol therapy from an in - patient setting with an adequate supply of sotalol to allow uninterrupted therapy until the patient can fill a sotalol prescription .
Advise patients who miss a dose to take the next dose at the usual time .
Do not double the dose or shorten the dosing interval .
2 . 2 Adult Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmias The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily .
This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc < 500 msec [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Continually monitor patients until steady state blood levels are achieved .
In most patients , a therapeutic response is obtained at a total daily dose of 160 to 320 mg / day , given in two or three divided doses ( because of the long terminal elimination half - life of sotalol , dosing more than a two times a day is usually not necessary ) .
Oral doses as high as 480 to 640 mg / day have been utilized in patients with refractory life - threatening arrhythmias .
2 . 3 Adult Dose for Prevention of Recurrence of AFIB / AFL The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily .
This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc < 500 msec [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Continually monitor patients until steady state blood levels are achieved .
Most patients will have satisfactory response with 120 mg twice daily .
Initiation of sotalol in patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml / min or QTc > 450 is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
2 . 4 Pediatric Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmias or AFIB / AFL Use the same precautionary measures for children as you would use for adults when initiating and re - initiating sotalol treatment .
For children aged about 2 years and older For children aged about 2 years and older , with normal renal function , doses normalized for body surface area are appropriate for both initial and incremental dosing .
Since the Class III potency in children is not very different from that in adults , reaching plasma concentrations that occur within the adult dose range is an appropriate guide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) ] .
From pediatric pharmacokinetic data the following is recommended : For initiation of treatment , 30 mg / m2 three times a day ( 90 mg / m2 total daily dose ) is approximately equivalent to the initial 160 mg total daily dose for adults .
Subsequent titration to a maximum of 60 mg / m2 ( approximately equivalent to the 360 mg total daily dose for adults ) can then occur .
Titration should be guided by clinical response , heart rate and QTc , with increased dosing being preferably carried out in - hospital .
At least 36 hours should be allowed between dose increments to attain steady - state plasma concentrations of sotalol in patients with age - adjusted normal renal function .
For children aged about 2 years or younger For children aged about 2 years or younger , the above pediatric dosage should be reduced by a factor that depends heavily upon age , as shown in the following graph , age plotted on a logarithmic scale in months .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For a child aged 20 months , the dosing suggested for children with normal renal function aged 2 years or greater should be multiplied by about 0 . 97 ; the initial starting dose would be ( 30 X 0 . 97 ) = 29 . 1 mg / m2 , administered three times daily .
For a child aged 1 month , the starting dose should be multiplied by 0 . 68 ; the initial starting dose would be ( 30 X 0 . 68 ) = 20 mg / m2 , administered three times daily .
For a child aged about 1 week , the initial starting dose should be multiplied by 0 . 3 ; the starting dose would be ( 30 X 0 . 3 ) = 9 mg / m2 .
Use similar calculations for dose titration .
Since the half - life of sotalol decreases with decreasing age ( below about 2 years ) , time to steady - state will also increase .
Thus , in neonates the time to steady - state may be as long as a week or longer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults Use of sotalol in any age group with decreased renal function should be at lower doses or increased intervals between doses .
It will take much longer to reach steady - state with any dose and / or frequency of administration .
Closely monitor heart rate and QTc .
Dose escalations in renal impairment should be done after administration of at least 5 doses at appropriate intervals ( Table 1 ) .
Sotalol is partly removed by dialysis ; specific advice is unavailable on dosing patients on dialysis .
The initial dose of 80 mg and subsequent doses should be administered at the intervals listed in Table 1 or Table 2 .
Table 1 : Dosing Intervals for treatment of Ventricular Arrhythmias in renal impairment Creatinine Clearance mL / min Dosing Interval ( hours ) > 60 12 30 to 59 24 10 to 29 36 to 48 < 10 Dose should be individualized Table 2 : Dosing Intervals for treatment of AFIB / AFL in renal impairment Creatinine Clearance mL / min Dosing Interval ( hours ) > 60 12 40 to 59 24 < 40 Contraindicated 2 . 6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride syrup 5 mg / mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0 . 1 % sodium benzoate ( Syrup , NF ) as follows : • 1 .
Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup .
• 2 .
Transfer the syrup to a 6 - ounce amber plastic ( polyethylene terephthalate [ PET ] ) prescription bottle .
An oversized bottle is used to allow for a headspace , so that there will be more effective mixing during shaking of the bottle .
• 3 .
Add five ( 5 ) sotalol hydrochloride 120 mg tablets to the bottle .
These tablets are added intact ; it is not necessary to crush the tablets .
The addition of the tablets can also be done first .
The tablets can also be crushed if preferred .
If the tablets are crushed , care should be taken to transfer the entire quantity of tablet powder into the bottle containing the syrup .
• 4 .
Shake the bottle to wet the entire surface of the tablets .
If the tablets have been crushed , shake the bottle until the endpoint is achieved .
• 5 .
Allow the tablets to hydrate for at least two hours .
• 6 .
After at least two hours have elapsed , shake the bottle intermittently over the course of at least another two hours until the tablets are completely disintegrated .
The tablets can be allowed to hydrate overnight to simplify the disintegration process .
The endpoint is achieved when a dispersion of fine particles in the syrup is obtained .
This compounding procedure results in a solution containing 5 mg / mL of sotalol hydrochloride .
The fine solid particles are the water - insoluble inactive ingredients of the tablets .
Stability studies indicate that the suspension is stable for three months when stored at 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and ambient humidity .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP , 80 mg are available as light blue , oval - shaped tablets that are scored on one side and debossed with the numbers “ 93 ” and “ 61 ” on each side of the score , and plain on the other side .
Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP , 120 mg are available as light blue , oval - shaped tablets that are scored on one side and debossed with the numbers “ 93 ” and “ 1060 ” on each side of the score , and plain on the other side .
Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP , 160 mg are available as light blue , oval - shaped tablets that are scored on one side and debossed with the numbers “ 93 ” and “ 62 ” on each side of the score , and plain on the other side .
Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP , 240 mg are available as light blue , oval - shaped tablets that are scored on one side and debossed with the numbers “ 93 ” and “ 63 ” on each side of the score , and plain on the other side .
80 mg , 120 mg , 160 mg , and 240 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • • Sinus bradycardia , sick sinus syndrome , second and third degree AV block , unless a functioning pacemaker is present • • Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes • • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure • • Serum potassium < 4 mEq / L • • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions • • Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB / AFL , sotalol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with : • • Baseline QT interval > 450 ms • • Creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min For the treatment of AFIB / AFL or ventricular arrhythmias • • Sinus bradycardia , 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block , sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) • • Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome , ( 4 ) • • Serum potassium < 4 mEq / L ( 4 ) • • Cardiogenic shock , decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) • • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB / AFL also contraindicated for : • • QT interval > 450 ms ( 4 ) • • Creatine clearance < 40 ml / min ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • QT prolongation , bradycardia , AV block , hypotension , worsening heart failure : Reduce dose or discontinue ( 5 . 1 ) • • Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy : Do not abruptly discontinue ( 5 . 5 ) • • Correct any electrolyte disturbances ( 5 . 1 ) • • May mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia in diabetic patients ; monitor ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 QT Prolongation and Proarrhythmia Sotalol hydrochloride can cause serious and potentially fatal ventricular arrhythmias such as sustained VT / VF , primarily Torsade de Pointes ( TdP ) type ventricular tachycardia , a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia associated with QT interval prolongation .
Factors such as reduced creatinine clearance , female sex , higher doses , reduced heart rate and history of sustained VT / VF or heart failure increase the risk of TdP .
The risk of TdP can be reduced by adjustment of the sotalol dose according to creatinine clearance and by monitoring the ECG for excessive increases in the QT interval [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride , as these conditions can exaggerate the degree of QT prolongation , and increase the potential for Torsade de Pointes .
Special attention should be given to electrolyte and acid - base balance in patients experiencing severe or prolonged diarrhea or patients receiving concomitant diuretic drugs .
Proarrhythmic events must be anticipated not only on initiating therapy , but with every upward dose adjustment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In general , do not use sotalol with other drugs known to cause QT prolongation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Bradycardia / Heart Block / Sick Sinus Syndrome Sinus bradycardia ( heart rate less than 50 bpm ) occurred in 13 % of patients receiving sotalol in clinical trials , and led to discontinuation in about 3 % of patients .
Bradycardia itself increases the risk of Torsade de Pointes .
Sinus pause , sinus arrest and sinus node dysfunction occur in less than 1 % of patients .
The incidence of 2 nd - or 3 rd - degree AV block is approximately 1 % .
Sotalol hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with sick sinus syndrome because it may cause sinus bradycardia , sinus pauses or sinus arrest .
5 . 3 Hypotension Sotalol produces significant reductions in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures and may result in hypotension .
Monitor hemodynamics in patients with marginal cardiac compensation .
5 . 4 Heart Failure New onset or worsening heart failure may occur during initiation or uptitration of sotalol because of its beta - blocking effects .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of heart failure and discontinue treatment if symptoms occur .
5 . 5 Cardiac Ischemia after Abrupt Discontinuation Following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta adrenergic blockers , exacerbations of angina pectoris and myocardial infarction may occur .
When discontinuing chronically administered sotalol hydrochloride , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , gradually reduce the dosage over a period of 1 to 2 weeks , if possible , and monitor the patient .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary ischemia develops , treat appropriately ( consider use of an alternative beta blocker ) .
Warn patients not to interrupt therapy without their physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease may be common , but unrecognized , in patients treated with sotalol , abrupt discontinuation may unmask latent coronary insufficiency .
5 . 6 Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic diseases ( for example chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) should not receive beta - blockers .
If sotalol hydrochloride is to be administered , use the smallest effective dose , to minimize inhibition of bronchodilation produced by endogenous or exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta 2 receptors .
5 . 7 Masked Signs of Hypoglycemia in Diabetics Beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
Elevated blood glucose levels and increased insulin requirements can occur in diabetic patients .
5 . 8 Thyroid Abnormalities Avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockade in patients with thyroid disease because it may lead to an exacerbation of symptoms of hyperthyroidism , including thyroid storm .
Beta - blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( for example , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
5 . 9 Anaphylaxis While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction .
5 . 10 Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) for sotalol hydrochloride are : fatigue 4 % , bradycardia ( less than 50 bpm ) 3 % , dyspnea 3 % , proarrhythmia 3 % , asthenia 2 % , and dizziness 2 % .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TEVA USA , PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1 - 866 - 832 - 8537 or drug . safety @ tevapharm . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions that are clearly related to sotalol are those which are typical of its Class II ( beta - blocking ) and Class III ( cardiac action potential duration prolongation ) effects and are dose related .
Ventricular Arrhythmias Serious Adverse Reactions In patients with a history of sustained ventricular tachycardia , the incidence of Torsade de Pointes during oral sotalol treatment was 4 % and worsened VT was about 1 % ; in patients with other less serious ventricular arrhythmias the incidence of Torsade de Pointes was 1 % and new or worsened VT was about 0 . 7 % .
Incidence of Torsade de Pointes arrhythmias in patients with VT / VF are shown in Table 3 below .
Table 3 : Percent Incidence of Torsade de Pointes and Mean QTc Interval by Dose For Patients With Sustained VT / VF Daily Dose ( mg ) Torsade de Pointes Incidence Mean QTc [ 1 ] ( msec ) 80 0 ( 69 ) 463 ( 17 ) 160 0 . 5 ( 832 ) 467 ( 181 ) 320 1 . 6 ( 835 ) 473 ( 344 ) 480 4 . 4 ( 459 ) 483 ( 234 ) 640 3 . 7 ( 324 ) 490 ( 185 ) > 640 5 . 8 ( 103 ) 512 ( 62 ) ( ) Number of patients assessed [ 1 ] highest on - therapy value Table 4 below relates the incidence of Torsade de Pointes to on - therapy QTc and change in QTc from baseline in patients with ventricular arrhythmias .
It should be noted , however , that the highest on - therapy QTc was in many cases the one obtained at the time of the Torsade de Pointes event , so that the table overstates the predictive value of a high QTc .
Table 4 : Relationship Between QTc Interval Prolongation and Torsade de Pointes On - Therapy QTc Interval ( msec ) Incidence of Torsade de Pointes Change from Baseline in QTc ( msec ) Incidence of Torsade de Pointes < 500 1 . 3 % ( 1787 ) < 65 1 . 6 % ( 1516 ) 500 to 525 3 . 4 % ( 236 ) 65 to 80 3 . 2 % ( 158 ) 525 to 550 5 . 6 % ( 125 ) 80 to 100 4 . 1 % ( 146 ) > 550 10 . 8 % ( 157 ) 100 to 130 5 . 2 % ( 115 ) > 130 7 . 1 % ( 99 ) ( ) Number of patients assessed Table 5 : Incidence ( % ) of Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % in the Placebo group and less frequent than in the sotalol hydrochloride groups ) in a Placebo - controlled Parallel - group Comparison Study of Patients with Ventricular Ectopy Body System / Adverse Reaction ( Preferred Term ) Placebo Sotalol hydrochloride Total Daily Dose N = 37 ( % ) 320 mg N = 38 ( % ) 640 mg N = 39 ( % ) CARDIOVASCULAR Chest Pain 5 . 4 7 . 9 15 . 4 Dyspnea 2 . 7 18 . 4 20 . 5 Palpitation 2 . 7 7 . 9 5 . 1 Vasodilation 2 . 7 0 . 0 5 . 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM Asthenia 8 . 1 10 . 5 20 . 5 Dizziness 5 . 4 13 . 2 17 . 9 Fatigue 10 . 8 26 . 3 25 . 6 Headache 5 . 4 5 . 3 7 . 7 Lightheaded 8 . 1 15 . 8 5 . 1 Sleep Problem 2 . 7 2 . 6 7 . 7 RESPIRATORY Upper Respiratory Tract Problem 2 . 7 2 . 6 12 . 8 SPECIAL SENSES Visual Problem 2 . 7 5 . 3 0 . 0 The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of sotalol hydrochloride in trials of patients with ventricular arrhythmias are : fatigue 4 % , bradycardia ( less than 50 bpm ) 3 % , dyspnea 3 % , proarrhythmia 3 % , asthenia 2 % , and dizziness 2 % .
Incidence of discontinuation for these adverse reactions was dose related .
One case of peripheral neuropathy that resolved on discontinuation of sotalol hydrochloride and recurred when the patient was rechallenged with the drug was reported in an early dose tolerance study .
Pediatric Patients In an unblinded multicenter trial of 25 pediatric patients with SVT and / or VT receiving daily doses of 30 , 90 and 210 mg / m2 with dosing every 8 hours for a total of 9 doses , no Torsade de Pointes or other serious new arrhythmias were observed .
One ( 1 ) patient , receiving 30 mg / m2 daily , was discontinued because of increased frequency of sinus pauses / bradycardia .
Additional cardiovascular AEs were seen at the 90 and 210 mg / m2 daily dose levels .
They included QT prolongation ( 2 patients ) , sinus pauses / bradycardia ( 1 patient ) , increased severity of atrial flutter and reported chest pain ( 1 patient ) .
Values for QTc ≥ 525 msec were seen in 2 patients at the 210 mg / m2 daily dose level .
Serious adverse events including death , Torsade de Pointes , other proarrhythmias , high - degree A - V blocks , and bradycardia have been reported in infants and / or children .
Atrial Fibrillation / Atrial Flutter Placebo - controlled Clinical Trials In a pooled clinical trial population consisting of 4 placebo - controlled studies with 275 patients with atrial fibrillation ( AFIB ) / atrial flutter ( AFL ) treated with 160 to 320 mg doses of sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) , the following adverse reactions presented in Table 6 occurred in at least 2 % of placebo - treated patients and at a lesser rate than sotalol hydrochloride - treated patients .
The data are presented by incidence of reactions in the sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) and placebo groups by body system and daily dose .
Table 6 : Incidence ( % ) of Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % in the Placebo group and less frequent than in the sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) groups ) in Four Placebo - controlled Studies of Patients with AFIB / AFL Body System / Adverse Reaction ( Preferred Term ) Placebo Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) Total Daily Dose N = 282 ( % ) 160 to 240 mg N = 153 ( % ) > 240 to 320 mg N = 122 ( % ) CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 2 . 5 13 . 1 12 . 3 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 . 1 5 . 2 5 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 5 . 3 7 . 8 5 . 7 Pain abdomen 2 . 5 3 . 9 2 . 5 GENERAL Fatigue 8 . 5 19 . 6 18 . 9 Hyperhidrosis 3 . 2 5 . 2 4 . 9 Weakness 3 . 2 5 . 2 4 . 9 MUSCULOSKELETAL / CONNECTIVE TISSUE Pain musculoskeletal 2 . 8 2 . 6 4 . 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness 12 . 4 16 . 3 13 . 1 Headache 5 . 3 3 . 3 11 . 5 RESPIRATORY Cough 2 . 5 3 . 3 2 . 5 Dyspnea 7 . 4 9 . 2 9 . 8 Overall , discontinuation because of unacceptable adverse events was necessary in 17 % of the patients , and occurred in 10 % of patients less than two weeks after starting treatment .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) were : fatigue 4 . 6 % , bradycardia 2 . 4 % , proarrhythmia 2 . 2 % , dyspnea 2 % , and QT interval prolongation 1 . 4 % .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been identified during post - approval use of sotalol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Voluntary reports since introduction include reports ( less than one report per 10 , 000 patients ) of : emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , incoordination , vertigo , paralysis , thrombocytopenia , eosinophilia , leukopenia , photosensitivity reaction , fever , pulmonary edema , hyperlipidemia , myalgia , pruritis , alopecia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval : Avoid concomitant use ( 7 . 1 ) • • Digoxin , calcium channel blocker : increased risk of bradycardia , hypotension , heart failure ( 7 . 2 ) • • Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7 . 5 ) • • Aluminum or magnesium - based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7 . 7 ) 7 . 1 Antiarrhythmics and other QT Prolonging Drugs Sotalol has not been studied with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as antiarrhythmics , some phenothiazines , tricyclic antidepressants , certain oral macrolides and certain quinolone antibiotics .
Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half - lives prior to dosing with sotalol .
Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs , such as disopyramide , quinidine and procainamide and other Class III drugs ( for example , amiodarone ) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride , because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
There is only limited experience with the concomitant use of Class Ib or Ic antiarrhythmics .
Additive Class II effects would also be anticipated with the use of other beta - blocking agents concomitantly with sotalol hydrochloride .
7 . 2 Digoxin Proarrhythmic events were more common in sotalol treated patients also receiving digoxin ; it is not clear whether this represents an interaction or is related to the presence of CHF , a known risk factor for proarrhythmia , in the patients receiving digoxin .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
7 . 3 Calcium - Channel Blocking Drugs Sotalol and calcium - blocking drugs can be expected to have additive effects on atrioventricular conduction or ventricular function .
Monitor such patients for evidence of bradycardia and hypotension .
7 . 4 Catecholamine - Depleting Agents Concomitant use of catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine and guanethidine , with a beta - blocker may produce an excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous tone .
Monitor such patients for evidence of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia which may produce syncope .
7 . 5 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur , and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 7 ) ] .
7 . 6 Clonidine Concomitant use with sotalol increases the risk of bradycardia .
Because beta - blockers may potentiate the rebound hypertension sometimes observed after clonidine discontinuation , withdraw sotalol several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine to reduce the risk of rebound hypertension .
7 . 7 Antacids Avoid administration of oral sotalol within 2 hours of antacids containing aluminum oxide and magnesium hydroxide .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Sotalol has been shown to cross the placenta , and is found in amniotic fluid .
In animal studies there was no increase in congenital anomalies , but an increase in early resorptions occurred at sotalol doses 18 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD , based on surface area ) .
Animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response .
Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits during organogenesis at 9 and 7 times the MRHD ( based on surface area ) , respectively , did not reveal any teratogenic potential associated with sotalol .
In rabbits , a dose of sotalol 6 times the MRHD produced a slight increase in fetal death as well as maternal toxicity .
This effect did not occur at sotalol dose 3 times the MRHD .
In rats a sotalol dose 18 times the MRHD increased the number of early resorptions , while a dose 2 . 5 times the MRHD , produced no increase in early resorptions .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Sotalol is excreted in the milk of laboratory animals and has been reported to be present in human milk .
Discontinue nursing on sotalol hydrochloride .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of sotalol in children have not been established .
However , the Class III electrophysiologic and beta - blocking effects , the pharmacokinetics , and the relationship between the effects ( QTc interval and resting heart rate ) and drug concentrations have been evaluated in children aged between 3 days and 12 years old [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Sotalol is mainly eliminated via the kidneys .
Dosing intervals should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Intentional or accidental overdosage with sotalol has resulted in death .
Symptoms and Treatment of Overdosage The most common signs to be expected are bradycardia , congestive heart failure , hypotension , bronchospasm and hypoglycemia .
In cases of massive intentional overdosage ( 2 to 16 grams ) of sotalol the following clinical findings were seen : hypotension , bradycardia , cardiac asystole , prolongation of QT interval , Torsade de Pointes , ventricular tachycardia , and premature ventricular complexes .
If overdosage occurs , therapy with sotalol should be discontinued and the patient observed closely .
Because of the lack of protein binding , hemodialysis is useful for reducing sotalol plasma concentrations .
Patients should be carefully observed until QT intervals are normalized and the heart rate returns to levels > 50 bpm .
The occurrence of hypotension following an overdose may be associated with an initial slow drug elimination phase ( half - life of 30 hours ) thought to be due to a temporary reduction of renal function caused by the hypotension .
In addition , if required , the following therapeutic measures are suggested : Bradycardia or Cardiac Asystole : Atropine , another anticholinergic drug , a beta - adrenergic agonist or transvenous cardiac pacing .
Heart Block : ( second and third degree ) transvenous cardiac pacemaker .
Hypotension : ( depending on associated factors ) epinephrine rather than isoproterenol or norepinephrine may be useful .
Bronchospasm : Aminophylline or aerosol beta - 2 - receptor stimulant .
Higher than normal doses of beta - 2 receptor stimulants may be required .
Torsade de Pointes : DC cardioversion , transvenous cardiac pacing , epinephrine , magnesium sulfate .
11 DESCRIPTION Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP contains sotalol hydrochloride , USP an antiarrhythmic drug with Class II ( beta - adrenoreceptor blocking ) and Class III ( cardiac action potential duration prolongation ) properties Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP are supplied as a light blue , oval - shaped tablet for oral administration .
Sotalol hydrochloride , USP is a white , crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 308 . 8 .
It is hydrophilic , soluble in water , propylene glycol and ethanol , but is only slightly soluble in chloroform .
Chemically , sotalol hydrochloride , USP is d , l - N - [ 4 - [ 1 - hydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] ethyl ] phenyl ] methane - sulfonamide monohydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C12H20N2O3 S ∙ HCl and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP contain the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone , and FD & C Blue No . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sotalol has both beta - adrenoreceptor blocking ( Vaughan Williams Class II ) and cardiac action potential duration prolongation ( Vaughan Williams Class III ) antiarrhythmic properties .
The two isomers of sotalol have similar Class III antiarrhythmic effects , while the l - isomer is responsible for virtually all of the beta - blocking activity .
The beta - blocking effect of sotalol is non - cardioselective , half maximal at about 80 mg / day and maximal at doses between 320 and 640 mg / day .
Sotalol does not have partial agonist or membrane stabilizing activity .
Although significant beta - blockade occurs at oral doses as low as 25 mg , significant Class III effects are seen only at daily doses of 160 mg and above .
In children , a Class III electrophysiologic effect can be seen at daily doses of 210 mg / m2 body surface area ( BSA ) .
A reduction of the resting heart rate due to the beta - blocking effect of sotalol is observed at daily doses ≥ 90 mg / m2 in children .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiological Effects Sotalol hydrochloride prolongs the plateau phase of the cardiac action potential in the isolated myocyte , as well as in isolated tissue preparations of ventricular or atrial muscle ( Class III activity ) .
In intact animals it slows heart rate , decreases AV nodal conduction and increases the refractory periods of atrial and ventricular muscle and conduction tissue .
In man , the Class II ( beta - blockade ) electrophysiological effects of sotalol are manifested by increased sinus cycle length ( slowed heart rate ) , decreased AV nodal conduction and increased AV nodal refractoriness .
The Class III electrophysiological effects in man include prolongation of the atrial and ventricular monophasic action potentials , and effective refractory period prolongation of atrial muscle , ventricular muscle , and atrio - ventricular accessory pathways ( where present ) in both the anterograde and retrograde directions .
With oral doses of 160 to 640 mg / day , the surface ECG shows dose - related mean increases of 40 to 100 msec in QT and 10 to 40 msec in QTc [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
No significant alteration in QRS interval is observed .
In a small study ( n = 25 ) of patients with implanted defibrillators treated concurrently with sotalol hydrochloride , the average defibrillatory threshold was 6 joules ( range 2 to 15 joules ) compared to a mean of 16 joules for a nonrandomized comparative group primarily receiving amiodarone .
Twenty - five children in an unblinded , multicenter trial with SVT and / or ventricular tachyarrhythmias , aged between 3 days and 12 years ( mostly neonates and infants ) , received an ascending titration regimen with daily doses of 30 , 90 and 210 mg / m2 with dosing every 8 hours for a total 9 doses .
During steady - state , the respective average increases above baseline of the QTc interval were 2 , 14 , and 29 msec at the 3 dose levels .
The respective mean maximum increases above baseline of the QTc interval were 23 , 36 , and 55 msec at the 3 dose levels .
The steady - state percent increases in the RR interval were 3 , 9 and 12 % .
The smallest children ( BSA < 0 . 33 m2 ) showed a tendency for larger Class III effects ( ΔQTc ) and an increased frequency of prolongations of the QTc interval as compared with larger children ( BSA ≥ 0 . 33 m2 ) .
The beta - blocking effects also tended to be greater in the smaller children ( BSA < 0 . 33 m2 ) .
Both the Class III and beta - blocking effects of sotalol were linearly related to the plasma concentrations .
Hemodynamics In a study of systemic hemodynamic function measured invasively in 12 patients with a mean LV ejection fraction of 37 % and ventricular tachycardia ( 9 sustained and 3 non - sustained ) , a median dose of 160 mg twice daily of sotalol hydrochloride produced a 28 % reduction in heart rate and a 24 % decrease in cardiac index at 2 hours post - dosing at steady - state .
Concurrently , systemic vascular resistance and stroke volume showed nonsignificant increases of 25 % and 8 % , respectively .
One patient was discontinued because of worsening congestive heart failure .
Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure increased significantly from 6 . 4 mmHg to 11 . 8 mmHg in the 11 patients who completed the study .
Mean arterial pressure , mean pulmonary artery pressure and stroke work index did not significantly change .
Exercise and isoproterenol induced tachycardia are antagonized by sotalol hydrochloride , and total peripheral resistance increases by a small amount .
In hypertensive patients , sotalol produces significant reductions in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures .
Although sotalol is usually well - tolerated hemodynamically , deterioration in cardiac performance may occur in patients with marginal cardiac compensation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of the d and l enantiomers of sotalol are essentially identical .
Absorption In healthy subjects , the oral bioavailability of sotalol is 90 to 100 % .
After oral administration , peak plasma concentrations are reached in 2 . 5 to 4 hours , and steady - state plasma concentrations are attained within 2 to 3 days ( that is , after 5 to 6 doses when administered twice daily ) .
Over the dosage range 160 to 640 mg / day sotalol displays dose proportionality with respect to plasma concentrations .
When administered with a standard meal , the absorption of sotalol was reduced by approximately 20 % compared to administration in fasting state .
Distribution Sotalol does not bind to plasma proteins .
Distribution occurs to a central ( plasma ) and to a peripheral compartment .
Sotalol crosses the blood brain barrier poorly .
Metabolism Sotalol is not metabolized and is not expected to inhibit or induce any CYP450 enzymes .
Excretion Excretion of sotalol is predominantly via the kidney in the unchanged form , and therefore lower doses are necessary in conditions of renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
The mean elimination half - life of sotalol is 12 hours .
Dosing every 12 hours results in trough plasma concentrations which are approximately one - half of those at peak .
Specific Populations Pediatric : The combined analysis of a single - dose study and a multiple - dose study with 59 children , aged between 3 days and 12 years , showed the pharmacokinetics of sotalol to be first order .
A daily dose of 30 mg / m2 of sotalol was administered in the single dose study and daily doses of 30 , 90 and 210 mg / m2 were administered every 8 hours in the multi - dose study .
After rapid absorption with peak levels occurring on average between 2 to 3 hours following administration , sotalol was eliminated with a mean half - life of 9 . 5 hours .
Steady - state was reached after 1 to 2 days .
The average peak to trough concentration ratio was 2 .
BSA was the most important covariate and more relevant than age for the pharmacokinetics of sotalol .
The smallest children ( BSA < 0 . 33m2 ) exhibited a greater drug exposure ( + 59 % ) than the larger children who showed a uniform drug concentration profile .
The intersubject variation for oral clearance was 22 % .
Geriatric : Age does not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of sotalol hydrochloride , but impaired renal function in geriatric patients can increase the terminal elimination half - life , resulting in increased drug accumulation .
Renal Impairment : Sotalol is mainly eliminated via the kidneys through glomerular filtration and to a small degree by tubular secretion .
There is a direct relationship between renal function , as measured by serum creatinine or creatinine clearance , and the elimination rate of sotalol .
The half - life of sotalol is prolonged ( up to 69 hours ) in anuric patients .
Doses or dosing intervals should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment show no alteration in clearance of sotalol .
Drug - Drug Interactions : Antacids : Administration of oral sotalol within 2 hours of antacids may result in a reduction in Cmax and AUC of 26 % and 20 % , respectively , and consequently in a 25 % reduction in the bradycardic effect at rest .
Administration of the antacid two hours after oral sotalol has no effect on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of sotalol .
No pharmacokinetic interactions were observed with hydrochlorothiazide or warfarin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in rats during a 24 - month study at 137 to 275 mg / kg / day ( approximately 30 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ( MRHD ) as mg / kg or 5 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) or in mice , during a 24 - month study at 4141 to 7122 mg / kg / day ( approximately 450 to 750 times the MRHD as mg / kg or 36 to 63 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) .
Sotalol has not been evaluated in any specific assay of mutagenicity or clastogenicity .
No significant reduction in fertility occurred in rats at oral doses of 1000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 100 times the MRHD as mg / kg or 18 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) prior to mating , except for a small reduction in the number of offspring per litter .
Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits during organogenesis at 100 and 22 times the MRHD as mg / kg ( 9 and 7 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) , respectively , did not reveal any teratogenic potential associated with sotalol HCl .
In rabbits , a high dose of sotalol HCl ( 160 mg / kg / day ) at 16 times the MRHD as mg / kg ( 6 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) produced a slight increase in fetal death , and maternal toxicity .
Eight times the maximum dose ( 80 mg / kg / day or 3 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) did not result in an increased incidence of fetal deaths .
In rats , 1000 mg / kg / day sotalol HCl , 100 times the MRHD ( 18 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) , increased the number of early resorptions , while at 14 times the maximum dose ( 2 . 5 times the MRHD as mg / m2 ) , no increase in early resorptions was noted .
However , animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride has been studied in life - threatening and less severe arrhythmias .
In patients with frequent premature ventricular complexes ( VPC ) , sotalol hydrochloride was significantly superior to placebo in reducing VPCs , paired VPCs and non - sustained ventricular tachycardia ( NSVT ) ; the response was dose - related through 640 mg / day with 80 to 85 % of patients having at least a 75 % reduction of VPCs .
Sotalol hydrochloride was also superior , at the doses evaluated , to propranolol ( 40 to 80 mg TID ) and similar to quinidine ( 200 to 400 mg QID ) in reducing VPCs .
In patients with life - threatening arrhythmias [ sustained ventricular tachycardia / fibrillation ( VT / VF ) ] , sotalol hydrochloride was studied acutely [ by suppression of programmed electrical stimulation ( PES ) induced VT and by suppression of Holter monitor evidence of sustained VT ] and , in acute responders , chronically .
In a double - blind , randomized comparison of sotalol hydrochloride and procainamide given intravenously ( total of 2 mg / kg sotalol hydrochloride vs . 19 mg / kg of procainamide over 90 minutes ) , sotalol hydrochloride suppressed PES induction in 30 % of patients vs . 20 % for procainamide ( p = 0 . 2 ) .
In a randomized clinical trial [ Electrophysiologic Study Versus Electrocardiographic Monitoring ( ESVEM ) Trial ] comparing choice of antiarrhythmic therapy by PES suppression vs . Holter monitor selection ( in each case followed by treadmill exercise testing ) in patients with a history of sustained VT / VF who were also inducible by PES , the effectiveness acutely and chronically of sotalol hydrochloride was compared with that of 6 other drugs ( procainamide , quinidine , mexiletine , propafenone , imipramine and pirmenol ) .
Overall response , limited to first randomized drug , was 39 % for sotalol hydrochloride and 30 % for the pooled other drugs .
Acute response rate for first drug randomized using suppression of PES induction was 36 % for sotalol hydrochloride vs . a mean of 13 % for the other drugs .
Using the Holter monitoring endpoint ( complete suppression of sustained VT , 90 % suppression of NSVT , 80 % suppression of VPC pairs , and at least 70 % suppression of VPCs ) , sotalol hydrochloride yielded 41 % response vs . 45 % for the other drugs combined .
Among responders placed on long - term therapy identified acutely as effective ( by either PES or Holter ) , sotalol hydrochloride , when compared to the pool of other drugs , had the lowest two - year mortality ( 13 % vs . 22 % ) , the lowest two - year VT recurrence rate ( 30 % vs . 60 % ) , and the lowest withdrawal rate ( 38 % vs . about 75 to 80 % ) .
The most commonly used doses of sotalol hydrochloride in this trial were 320 to 480 mg / day ( 66 % of patients ) , with 16 % receiving 240 mg / day or less and 18 % receiving 640 mg or more .
It cannot be determined , however , in the absence of a controlled comparison of sotalol hydrochloride vs . no pharmacologic treatment ( for example , in patients with implanted defibrillators ) whether sotalol hydrochloride response causes improved survival or identifies a population with a good prognosis .
Sotalol hydrochloride has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with ventricular arrhythmias .
14 . 2 Clinical Studies in Supra - ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) has been studied in patients with symptomatic AFIB / AFL in two principal studies , one in patients with primarily paroxysmal AFIB / AFL , the other in patients with primarily chronic AFIB .
In one study , a U . S . multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , dose - response trial of patients with symptomatic primarily paroxysmal AFIB / AFL , three fixed dose levels of sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) ( 80 mg , 120 mg and 160 mg ) twice daily and placebo were compared in 253 patients .
In patients with reduced creatinine clearance ( 40 to 60 mL / min ) the same doses were given once daily .
Patients were excluded for the following reasons : QT > 450 msec ; creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min ; intolerance to beta - blockers ; bradycardia - tachycardia syndrome in the absence of an implanted pacemaker ; AFIB / AFL was asymptomatic or was associated with syncope , embolic CVA or TIA ; acute myocardial infarction within the previous 2 months ; congestive heart failure ; bronchial asthma or other contraindications to beta - blocker therapy ; receiving potassium losing diuretics without potassium replacement or without concurrent use of ACE - inhibitors ; uncorrected hypokalemia ( serum potassium < 3 . 5 meq / L ) or hypomagnesemia ( serum magnesium < 1 . 5 meq / L ) ; received chronic oral amiodarone therapy for > 1 month within previous 12 weeks ; congenital or acquired long QT syndromes ; history of Torsade de Pointes with other antiarrhythmic agents which increase the duration of ventricular repolarization ; sinus rate < 50 bpm during waking hours ; unstable angina pectoris ; receiving treatment with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ; and AFIB / AFL associated with the Wolff - Parkinson - White ( WPW ) syndrome .
If the QT interval increased to ≥ 520 msec ( or JT ≥ 430 msec if QRS > 100 msec ) the drug was discontinued .
The patient population in this trial was 64 % male , and the mean age was 62 years .
No structural heart disease was present in 43 % of the patients .
Doses were administered once daily in 20 % of the patients because of reduced creatinine clearance .
Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) was shown to prolong the time to the first symptomatic , ECG - documented recurrence of AFIB / AFL , as well as to reduce the risk of such recurrence at both 6 and 12 months .
The 120 mg dose was more effective than 80 mg , but 160 mg did not appear to have an added benefit .
Note that these doses were given twice or once daily , depending on renal function .
The results are shown in Figure 2 , Table 7 and Table 8 .
Figure 2 : Study 1 – Time to First ECG - Documented Recurrence of Symptomatic AFIB / AFL Since Randomization [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 7 : Study 1 – Patient Status at 12 Months Placebo Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) Dose 80 mg 120 mg 160 mg Randomized 69 59 63 62 On treatment in NSR at 12 months without recurrence [ 1 ] 23 % 22 % 29 % 23 % Recurrence null [ 2 ] 67 % 58 % 49 % 42 % D / C for AEs 6 % 12 % 18 % 29 % [ 1 ] Symptomatic AFIB / AFL [ 2 ] Efficacy endpoint of Study 1 ; study treatment stopped .
Note that columns do not add up to 100 % due to discontinuations ( D / C ) for “ other ” reasons .
Table 8 : Study 1 – Median Time to Recurrence of Symptomatic AFIB / AFL and Relative Risk ( vs . Placebo ) at 12 Months Placebo n = 69 Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) Dose 80 mg n = 59 120 mg n = 63 160 mg n = 62 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 325 0 . 018 0 . 029 Relative Risk ( RR ) to placebo 0 . 81 0 . 59 0 . 59 Median time to recurrence ( days ) 27 106 229 175 Discontinuation because of adverse events was dose related .
In a second multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind study of 6 months duration in 232 patients with chronic AFIB , sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) was titrated over a dose range from 80 mg / day to 320 mg / day .
The patient population of this trial was 70 % male with a mean age of 65 years .
Structural heart disease was present in 49 % of the patients .
All patients had chronic AFIB for > 2 weeks but < 1 year at entry with a mean duration of 4 . 1 months .
Patients were excluded if they had significant electrolyte imbalance , QTc > 460 msec , QRS > 140 msec , any degree of AV block or functioning pacemaker , uncompensated cardiac failure , asthma , significant renal disease ( estimated creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) , heart rate < 50 bpm , myocardial infarction or open heart surgery in past 2 months , unstable angina , infective endocarditis , active pericarditis or myocarditis , ≥ 3 DC cardioversions in the past , medications that prolonged QT interval , and previous amiodarone treatment .
After successful cardioversion patients were randomized to receive placebo ( n = 114 ) or sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) ( n = 118 ) , at a starting dose of 80 mg twice daily .
If the initial dose was not tolerated it was decreased to 80 mg once daily , but if it was tolerated it was increased to 160 mg twice daily .
During the maintenance period 67 % of treated patients received a dose of 160 mg twice daily , and the remainder received doses of 80 mg once daily ( 17 % ) and 80 mg twice daily ( 16 % ) .
Tables 9 and 10 show the results of the trial .
There was a longer time to ECG - documented recurrence of AFIB and a reduced risk of recurrence at 6 months compared to placebo .
Table 9 : Study 2 – Patient Status at 6 Months Placebo n = 114 Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) n = 118 On treatment in NSR at 6 months without recurrence [ 1 ] 29 % 45 % Recurrence null [ 2 ] 67 % 49 % D / C for AEs 3 % 6 % Death 1 % [ 1 ] Symptomatic or asymptomatic AFIB / AFL [ 2 ] Efficacy endpoint of Study 2 ; study treatment stopped .
Table 10 : Study 2 – Median Time to Recurrence of Symptomatic AFIB / AFL / Death and Relative Risk ( vs . Placebo ) at 6 Months Placebo n = 114 Sotalol hydrochloride ( AF ) n = 118 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 002 Relative Risk ( RR ) to placebo 0 . 55 Median time to recurrence ( days ) 44 > 180 Figure 3 : Study 2 – Time to First ECG - Documented Recurrence of Symptomatic AFIB / AFL / Death Since Randomization [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 Clinical Studies in Patients with Myocardial Infarction In a large double - blind , placebo controlled secondary prevention ( postinfarction ) trial ( n = 1 , 456 ) ; sotalol hydrochloride was given as a non - titrated initial dose of 320 mg once daily .
Sotalol hydrochloride did not produce a significant increase in survival ( 7 . 3 % mortality on sotalol hydrochloride vs . 8 . 9 % on placebo , p = 0 . 3 ) , but overall did not suggest an adverse effect on survival .
There was , however , a suggestion of an early ( i . e . , first 10 days ) excess mortality ( 3 % on sotalol hydrochloride vs . 2 % on placebo ) .
In a second small trial ( n = 17 randomized to sotalol hydrochloride ) where sotalol hydrochloride was administered at high doses ( for example , 320 mg twice daily ) to high - risk post - infarction patients ( ejection fraction < 40 % and either > 10 VPC / hr or VT on Holter ) , there were 4 fatalities and 3 serious hemodynamic / electrical adverse events within two weeks of initiating sotalol hydrochloride .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP , 80 mg are available as light blue , oval - shaped tablets that are scored on one side and debossed with the numbers “ 93 ” and “ 61 ” on each side of the score , and plain on the other side .
They are available in bottles of 30 ( NDC 71205 - 046 - 30 ) , 60 ( NDC 71205 - 046 - 60 ) and 90 ( NDC 71205 - 046 - 90 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of syncope , pre - syncopal symptoms or cardiac palpitations .
• • Advise patients that their electrolytes and ECG will be monitored during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider in the event of conditions that could lead to electrolyte changes such as severe diarrhea , unusual sweating , vomiting , less appetite than normal or excessive thirst [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients not to change the sotalol hydrochloride dose prescribed by their healthcare provider .
• • Advise patients that they should not miss a dose , but if they do miss a dose they should not double the next dose to compensate for the missed dose : they should take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to not interrupt or discontinue sotalol hydrochloride without their physician ’ s advice , that they should get their prescription for sotalol filled and refilled on time so they do not interrupt treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to not start taking other medications without first discussing new medications with their healthcare provider .
• • Advise patients that they should avoid taking sotalol hydrochloride within two hours of taking antacids that contain aluminum oxide or magnesium hydroxide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
All brand names listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA .
Manufactured In Czech Republic By : TEVA CZECH INDUSTRIES s . r . o . Opava - Komarov , Czech Republic Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . M 6 / 2016 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sotalol Hydrochloride Tablets USP 80 mg 30 s Label Text NDC 71205 - 046 - 30 SOTALOL HYDROCHLORIDE Tablets USP 80 mg Rx only 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ]
