1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is an osmotic laxative indicated for cleansing of the colon in preparation for colonoscopy in adults ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution should be taken as a split - dose oral regimen .
The dose for colon cleansing requires administration of two bottles of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Each bottle is administered as 16 ounces of diluted Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution with an additional 1 quart of water taken orally .
The total volume of liquid required for colon cleansing ( using two bottles ) is 3 quarts ( approximately 2 . 8 L ) taken orally prior to the colonoscopy in the following way : Split - Dose ( Two - Day ) Regimen Day prior to colonoscopy : • A light breakfast may be consumed , or have only clear liquids on the day before colonoscopy .
Avoid red and purple liquids , milk , and alcoholic beverages .
• Early in the evening prior to colonoscopy : pour the contents of one bottle of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution into the mixing container provided .
Fill the container with water to the 16 ounce fill line , and drink the entire amount .
• Drink two additional containers filled to the 16 ounce line with water over the next hour .
Day of colonoscopy : • Have only clear liquids until after the colonoscopy .
Avoid red and purple liquids , milk , and alcoholic beverages .
• The morning of colonoscopy ( 10 to 12 hours after the evening dose ) : pour the contents of the second bottle of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution into the mixing container provided .
Fill the container with water to the 16 ounce fill line , and drink the entire amount .
• Drink two additional containers filled to the 16 ounce line with water over the next hour .
• Complete all Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution and required water at least two hours prior to colonoscopy or as directed by physician .
Dilute the solution prior to use .
See FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION for complete dosing and administration instructions ( 2 ) Split Dose ( 2 - Day ) Regimen • Evening before colonoscopy : dilute one bottle with water to a total volume of 16 ounces ( up to the fill line ) and drink the entire amount .
• Drink 32 ounces of water over the next hour .
• Next morning : repeat both steps using the second bottle .
• Complete preparation at least 2 hours before colonoscopy or as directed by physician .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS • Two 6 ounce bottles of oral solution .
Each 6 ounce bottle contains : sodium sulfate 17 . 5 grams , potassium sulfate 3 . 13 grams , magnesium sulfate 1 . 6 grams .
• Two 6 ounce bottles of oral solution , each containing sodium sulfate 17 . 5 grams , potassium sulfate 3 . 13 grams , and magnesium sulfate 1 . 6 grams .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Gastrointestinal obstruction • Bowel perforation • Gastric retention • Ileus • Toxic colitis or toxic megacolon • Known allergies to components of the kit [ see Description ( 11 ) ] • Gastrointestinal obstruction ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Bowel perforation ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Ileus ( 4 ) • Toxic colitis or toxic megacolon ( 4 ) • Known allergies to components of the kit ( 4 , 11 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities , arrhythmias , seizures and renal impairment – assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Patients with renal insufficiency – use caution , ensure adequate hydration and consider testing ( 5 . 4 ) • Suspected GI obstruction or perforation – rule out the diagnosis before administration ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Patients at risk for aspiration – observe during administration ( 5 . 7 ) • Not for direct ingestion – dilute and take with additional water ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before , during , and after the use of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution , consider performing post - colonoscopy lab tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias , seizures and renal impairment .
Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
In addition , use caution when prescribing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for patients with conditions , or who are using medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure , arrhythmias , and renal impairment .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution can cause temporary elevations in uric acid .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Uric acid fluctuations in patients with gout may precipitate an acute flare .
The potential for uric acid elevation should be considered before administering Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution to patients with gout or other disorders of uric acid metabolism .
5 . 2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation .
Use caution when prescribing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias ( e . g . , patients with a history of prolonged QT , uncontrolled arrhythmias , recent myocardial infarction , unstable angina , congestive heart failure , or cardiomyopathy ) .
Pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias .
5 . 3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures and / or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures .
The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia ) and low serum osmolality .
The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Use caution when prescribing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure , such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) , patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines , or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia .
5 . 4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function ( such as diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration , and consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients .
5 . 5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations , and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization .
Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution may increase these risks .
The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis .
5 . 7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration .
Such patients should be observed during administration of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
5 . 8 Not for Direct Ingestion Each bottle must be diluted with water to a final volume of 16 ounces and ingestion of additional water as recommended is important to patient tolerance .
Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea , vomiting , dehydration , and electrolyte disturbances .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) are : overall discomfort , abdominal fullness , nausea , abdominal cramping , and vomiting ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In a multicenter , controlled clinical trial comparing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution with a bowel prep containing polyethylene glycol and electrolytes ( PEG + E ) that were administered in a split - dose ( 2 - day ) regimen , the most common adverse reactions after administration of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution were overall discomfort , abdominal distention , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , and headache ; see Table 1 , below .
Less common Adverse Reactions occurring were AV Block ( 1 case ) and CK increase .
In this study , patients receiving Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution were limited to a light breakfast followed by clear liquids ; patients receiving the PEG + E bowel prep were allowed to have a normal breakfast and a light lunch , followed by clear liquids .
Table 1 : Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 2 % of Patients on the Split - Dose ( 2 - Day ) Regimen Symptom Split - Dose ( 2 - Day ) Regimen Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and MagnesiumSulfate Oral SolutionN = 190 PEG + EProductN = 189 Overall Discomfort 54 % 67 % Abdominal Distension 40 % 52 % Abdominal Pain 36 % 43 % Nausea 36 % 33 % Vomiting 8 % 4 % Headache 1 . 1 % 0 . 5 % Table 2 shows the percentages of patients who developed new abnormalities of important electrolytes and uric acid after completing the bowel preparation with either Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution or PEG + E administered as a split - dose ( 2 - day ) regimen .
Table 2 : Patients with Normal Baseline Serum Chemistry with A Shift to an Abnormal Value While on the Split - Dose ( 2 - Day ) Regimen Day of Colonoscopy n ( % ) * Day 30 n ( % ) * Anion gap ( high ) † Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 14 ( 8 . 9 ) 3 ( 1 . 9 ) PEG + Electrolytes 12 ( 7 . 6 ) 2 ( 1 . 4 ) Bicarbonate ( low ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 20 ( 12 . 7 ) 7 ( 4 . 4 ) PEG + Electrolytes 24 ( 15 . 2 ) 4 ( 2 . 7 ) Bilirubin , total ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 14 ( 8 . 5 ) 0 ( 0 ) PEG + Electrolytes 20 ( 11 . 7 ) 3 ( 1 . 9 ) BUN ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 2 ( 1 . 6 ) 14 ( 11 . 2 ) PEG + Electrolytes 4 ( 2 . 9 ) 19 ( 14 . 5 ) Calcium ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 16 ( 10 . 4 ) 8 ( 5 . 2 ) PEG + Electrolytes 6 ( 3 . 7 ) 6 ( 3 . 9 ) Chloride ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 4 ( 2 . 4 ) 6 ( 3 . 7 ) PEG + Electrolytes 20 ( 12 . 2 ) 6 ( 3 . 8 ) Creatinine ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 3 ( 1 . 9 ) 5 ( 3 . 2 ) PEG + Electrolytes 2 ( 1 . 2 ) 8 ( 5 . 2 ) Osmolality ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 8 ( 5 . 8 ) NA PEG + Electrolytes 19 ( 12 . 9 ) NA Osmolality ( low ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 3 ( 2 . 2 ) NA PEG + Electrolytes 2 ( 1 . 4 ) NA Potassium ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 3 ( 1 . 8 ) 6 ( 3 . 7 ) PEG + Electrolytes 5 ( 2 . 9 ) 8 ( 4 . 9 ) Sodium ( low ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 5 ( 3 . 1 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) PEG + Electrolytes 4 ( 2 . 3 ) 2 ( 1 . 2 ) Uric acid ( high ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 27 ( 23 . 5 ) 13 ( 11 . 5 ) PEG + Electrolytes 12 ( 9 . 5 ) 20 ( 16 . 7 ) * Percent ( n / N ) of patients where N = number of patients with normal baseline who had abnormal values at the timepoint ( s ) of interest .
† Patients with normal bicarbonate at baseline who developed low bicarbonate ( ≤ 21 mEq / L ) and high anion gap ( ≥ 13 mEq / L ) on Day of Colonoscopy or Day 30 .
There were also 408 patients who participated in a study in which either Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution or PEG + E were administered in an evening - only ( 1 - day ) regimen .
Higher rates of overall discomfort , abdominal distention , and nausea were observed with the evening - only ( 1 - day ) regimen compared to the split - dose ( 2 - day ) regimen for both preparations .
Patients treated with Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution had increased rates of vomiting with the evening - only ( 1 - day ) regimen .
An evening - only ( 1 - day ) dosing regimen was associated with higher rates of abnormal values for some electrolytes when compared to the split - dose ( 2 - day ) regimen for both preparations .
For Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution , the evening - only ( 1 - day ) regimen was associated with higher rates of total bilirubin ( high ) , BUN ( high ) , creatinine ( high ) , osmolality ( high ) , potassium ( high ) and uric acid ( high ) than the Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution split dose ( 2 - day ) regimen .
Administration of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution in an evening - only ( 1 - day ) dosing regimen is not recommended .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes ( 7 . 1 ) • Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose might not be absorbed properly ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for patients with conditions , or who are using medications , that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure , arrhythmias , and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [ see Warnings ( 5 ) ] in patients taking these concomitant medications .
7 . 2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract , and the medication may not be absorbed properly .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 375 patients who received Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution in clinical trials , 94 ( 25 % ) were 65 years of age or older , and 25 ( 7 % ) were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution administered as a split - dose ( 2 - day ) regimen were observed between geriatric patients and younger patients .
Geriatric patients reported more vomiting when Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution was given as a one - day preparation .
11 DESCRIPTION Each Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution contains two 6 ounce bottles of solution .
Each 6 ounce bottle contains : sodium sulfate 17 . 5 grams , potassium sulfate 3 . 13 grams , magnesium sulfate 1 . 6 grams .
Inactive ingredients include : sodium benzoate , sucralose , malic acid , citric acid , lemon flavor , purified water .
The solution is a clear to slightly hazy liquid .
The solution is clear and colorless when diluted to a final volume of 16 ounces with water .
Sodium Sulfate , USP The chemical name is Na2SO4 .
The average Molecular Weight is 142 . 04 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium Sulfate , FCC , Granular The chemical name is K2SO4 .
The average Molecular Weight is 174 . 26 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Magnesium Sulfate , USP The chemical name is MgSO4 .
The average Molecular Weight : 120 . 37 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution package also contains a polypropylene mixing container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sulfate salts provide sulfate anions , which are poorly absorbed .
The osmotic effect of unabsorbed sulfate anions and the associated cations causes water to be retained within the gastrointestinal tract .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The osmotic effect of the unabsorbed ions , when ingested with a large volume of water , produces a copious watery diarrhea .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Fecal excretion was the primary route of sulfate elimination .
After administration of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution in six healthy volunteers , the time at which serum sulfate reached its highest point ( Tmax ) was approximately 17 hours after the first half dose or approximately 5 hours after the second dose , and then declined with a half - life of 8 . 5 hours .
The disposition of sulfate after Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution was also studied in patients ( N = 6 ) with mild - moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh grades A and B ) and in patients ( N = 6 ) with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 49 mL / min ) .
The renal impairment group had the highest serum sulfate AUC and Cmax , followed by the hepatic impairment group , and then by healthy subjects .
Systemic exposure of serum sulfate ( AUC and Cmax ) was similar between healthy subjects and hepatic impairment patients .
Renal impairment resulted in 54 % higher mean AUC and 44 % higher mean Cmax than healthy subjects .
The mean sulfate levels of all three groups returned to their respective baseline levels by Day 6 after dose initiation .
Urinary excretion of sulfate over 30 hours , starting after the first half dose , was similar between hepatic patients and normal volunteers , but was approximately 16 % lower in moderate renal impairment patients than in healthy volunteers .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Studies to evaluate the possible impairment of fertility or mutagenic potential of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution have not been performed .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology The sulfate salts of sodium , potassium , and magnesium contained in Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution were administered orally ( gavage ) to rats and dogs up to 28 days up to a maximum daily dose of 5 grams / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 9 and 3 times for rats and dogs , respectively , the recommended human dose of 44 grams / day or 0 . 89 grams / kg based on the body surface area ) .
In rats , the sulfate salts caused diarrhea and electrolyte and metabolic changes , including hypochloremia , hypokalemia , hyponatremia , lower serum osmolality , and high serum bicarbonate .
Significant renal changes included increased fractional sodium excretion , increased urinary sodium and potassium excretion , and alkaline urine in both males and females .
In addition , creatinine clearance was significantly decreased in females at the highest dose .
No microscopic renal changes were seen .
In dogs , the sulfate salts caused emesis , excessive salivation , excessive drinking of water , and abnormal excreta ( soft and / or mucoid feces and / or diarrhea ) and increased urine pH and sodium excretion .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The colon cleansing efficacy of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution was evaluated in a randomized , single - blind , active - controlled , multicenter study .
In this study , 363 adult patients were included in the efficacy analysis .
Patients ranged in age from 20 to 84 years ( mean age 55 years ) and 54 % were female .
Race distribution was 86 % Caucasian , 9 % African - American , and 5 % other .
Patients were randomized to one of the following two colon preparation regimens : Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution or a marketed polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) bowel prep .
In the Study Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution was administered according to a split - dose preparation regimen [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
The PEG bowel prep was also given as a split - dose preparation according to its labeled instructions .
Patients receiving Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution were limited to a light breakfast followed by clear liquids on the day prior to the day of colonoscopy ; patients receiving the PEG bowel prep were allowed to have a normal breakfast and a light lunch , followed by clear liquids .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with successful colon cleansing as assessed by the colonoscopists , who were not informed about the type of preparation received .
In the study , no clinically or statistically significant differences were seen between the group treated with Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution and the group treated with the PEG bowel prep .
See Table 3 below .
Table 3 : Colon Cleansing Response Rates Treatment Group Regimen N Responders1 % ( 95 % C . I . ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution – PEG Difference ( 95 % CI ) Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ( With light breakfast ) Split - Dose 180 97 % ( 94 % , 99 % ) 2 % 2 ( - 2 % , 5 % ) PEG bowel prep ( with normal breakfast & light lunch ) Split - Dose 183 96 % ( 92 % , 98 % ) 1 Responders were patients whose colon preparations were graded excellent ( no more than small bits of adherent feces / fluid ) or good ( small amounts of feces or fluid not interfering with the exam ) by the colonoscopist .
2 Does not equal difference in tabled responder rates due to rounding effects .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution contains : • Two ( 2 ) 6 ounce bottles of oral solution .
• One ( 1 ) 19 ounce mixing container with a 16 ounce fill line .
Storage : Store at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68º to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted between 15º to 30 ° C ( 59º to 86 ° F ) .
See USP controlled room temperature .
Keep out of reach of children .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution Package NDC 43386 - 700 - 83 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See Medication Guide and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling 17 . 1 Patient Counseling • Ask patients to let you know if they have trouble swallowing or are prone to regurgitation or aspiration .
• Instruct patients that each bottle needs to be diluted in water before ingestion and that they need to drink additional water according to the instructions .
Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea , vomiting , and dehydration .
• Inform patients that oral medications may not be absorbed properly if they are taken within one hour of starting each dose of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
• Tell patients not to take other laxatives while they are taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 SAP Code : 269305 Revised 11 / 2021 Dosage and Administration 11 / 2012 Medication Guide Sodium Sulfate ( soe ' dee um sul ' fate ) , Potassium Sulfate ( poe tas ' ee um sul ' fate ) and Magnesium Sulfate ( mag nee ' zee um sul ' fate ) Oral Solution Read this Medication Guide before you start taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate oral solution .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution and other osmotic bowel preparations can cause serious side effects , including : Serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) in your blood .
These changes can cause : • abnormal heartbeats that can cause death • seizures .
This can happen even if you have never had a seizure .
• kidney problems Your chance of having fluid loss and changes in body salts with Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is higher if you : • have heart problems • have kidney problems • take water pills or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDS ) Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms of a loss of too much body fluid ( dehydration ) while taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution : • vomiting that prevents you from keeping down the additional prescribed amount of water listed in the Instructions for Use in the Patient Instructions for Use Booklet • dizziness • urinating less often than normal • headache See Section “ What are the possible side effects of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is a prescription medicine used by adults to clean the colon before a colonoscopy .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution cleans your colon by causing you to have diarrhea .
Cleaning your colon helps your healthcare provider see the inside of your colon more clearly during your colonoscopy .
It is not known if Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution is safe and effective in children Who should not take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
• Do not take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution if your healthcare provider has told you that you have : • a blockage in your bowel ( obstruction ) • an opening in the wall of your stomach or intestine ( bowel perforation ) • problems with food and fluid emptying from your stomach ( gastric retention ) • a very dilated intestine ( bowel ) • an allergy to any of the ingredients in Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
Before you take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have heart problems • have stomach or bowel problems • have ulcerative colitis • have problems with swallowing or gastric reflux • have gout • have a history of seizures • are withdrawing from drinking alcohol • have a low blood salt ( sodium ) level • have kidney problems • any other medical conditions • are pregnant .
It is not known if Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution may affect how other medicines work .
Medicines taken by mouth may not be absorbed properly when taken within 1 hour before the start of each dose of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • medicines for blood pressure or heart problems • medicines for kidney problems • medicines for seizures • water pills ( diuretics ) • non - steroidal anti - inflammatory medicines ( NSAID ) pain medicines • laxatives Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if you are taking any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
See the Instructions for Use in the Patient Instructions for Use Booklet for dosing instructions .
You must read , understand , and follow these instructions to take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution the right way .
Take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Do not drink Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate • Oral Solution that has not been mixed with water ( diluted ) , it may increase your risk of nausea , vomiting and fluid loss ( dehydration ) .
• Each bottle of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution must be mixed with water ( diluted ) before drinking .
• It is important for you to drink the additional prescribed amount of water listed in the Instructions for Use to prevent fluid loss ( dehydration ) .
• Do not take other laxatives while taking sodium sulfate , potassium sulfate and magnesium sulfate oral solution .
• Do not eat solid foods while taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Only clear liquids are allowed while taking Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
What are the possible side effects of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution can cause serious side effects , including : • See Section “ What is the most important information I should know about Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ? ”
• changes in certain blood tests .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests • after you take Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral • Solution to check your blood for changes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you • have any symptoms of too much fluid loss , including : • vomiting • nausea • bloating • dizziness • stomach ( abdominal ) cramping • headache • urinate less than usual • trouble drinking clear liquid • heart problems .
Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution may cause irregular heartbeats .
• seizures • ulcers of the bowel or bowel problems • worsening gout The most common side effects of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution include : • discomfort • bloating • stomach ( abdominal ) cramping • nausea • vomiting Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
• Store Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution at room temperature , between 59ºF to 86 ° F ( 15ºC to 30 ° C ) .
Keep Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution to other people , even if they are going to have the same procedure you are .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes important information about Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 What are the ingredients in Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate and Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution ?
Active ingredients : sodium sulfate , potassium sulfate and magnesium sulfate Inactive ingredients : sodium benzoate , sucralose , malic acid , citric acid , lemon flavor , purified water Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
SAP Code : 269305 Revised 11 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label NDC 43386 - 700 - 02 Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate And Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 17 . 5 g / 3 . 13 g / 1 . 6 g per 6 ounces Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
This bottle contains 6 ounces ( 177 mL ) of solution Directions : Dilute the solution concentrate prior to use .
See enclosed booklet for complete dosage and administration instructions .
Both 6 - ounce bottles are required for a complete prep .
Keep this and other drugs out of reach of children .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 43386 - 700 - 83 Sodium Sulfate , Potassium Sulfate And Magnesium Sulfate Oral Solution 17 . 5 g / 3 . 13 g / 1 . 6 g per 6 ounces This carton contains : 2 6 - ounce ( 177 mL ) bottles of solution ( 1 ) 19 ounce mixing container with a 16 ounce fill line .
Booklet includes : 1 - Medication Guide3 2 - Patient Instructions 3 - Full Prescribing Information Dilute the solution concentrate as directed prior to use .
Both 6 - ounce bottles are required for a complete prep .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) : excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
RX only Panel 1 and 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Panel 3 and 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
