Active ingredient Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses for the temporarily relief of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth and sore throat .
Warnings Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 6 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product , do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if • ▪ sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • ▪ irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • ▪ swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisoning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • ▪ Adults and children 12 years of age and older • ▪ Apply to affected area ( one spray ) • ▪ allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out • ▪ use every 2 hours as directed by a doctor or dentist • ▪ Children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of this product • ▪ Children under 6 years of age , Ask a doctor or dentist Other information • • Store at room temperature .
• • Check expiration date before using .
Inactive ingredients FD & C Red # 40 , glycerin , natural and artificial flavor , purified water , sucralose .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel H - E - B ® Compare to Chloraseptic ® active ingredient * NDC # 37808 - 803 - 06 Sore Throat Spray PHENOL / ORAL ANESTHETIC Sore Throat Relief of : • • Sore Throat Pain Sugar - free Aspirin - free Alcohol - free CHERRY FLAVOR 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) 100 % GUARANTEE promise * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands , Inc . , distributor of Chloraseptic ® .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED SHRINK BAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING MADE WITH PRIDE & CARE FOR H - E - B ® SAN ANTONIA , TX 78204 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
