WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for NSF among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs in these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrasted MRI or other modalities .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating systemic fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle and internal organs .
• The risk for NSF appears highest among patients with : • chronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • acute kidney injury • Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( e . g . age greater than 60 years , hypertension or diabetes ) , estimate the glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) through laboratory testing .
• For patients at highest risk for NSF , do not exceed the recommended ProHance dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug from the body prior to re - administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : NEPHROGENIC SYSTEMIC FIBROSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for NSF among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs in these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrasted MRI or other modalities .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating systemic fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle and internal organs .
• The risk for NSF appears highest among patients with : • chronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or • acute kidney injury • Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( e . g . age greater than 60 years , hypertension or diabetes ) , estimate the glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) through laboratory testing ( 5 . 1 ) .
Indications and Usage , MRI of the Central Nervous System ( 1 . 1 ) 12 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ProHance is a gadolinium - based contrast agent indicated for magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) to visualize : • lesions with disrupted blood brain barrier and / or abnormal vascularity in the brain ( intracranial lesions ) , spine and associated tissues in adults and pediatric patients , including term neonates ( 1 . 1 ) • lesions in the head and neck in adults ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 MRI of the Central Nervous System ( CNS ) ProHance is indicated for magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) in adults and pediatric patients including term neonates to visualize lesions with disrupted blood brain barrier and / or abnormal vascularity in the brain ( intracranial lesions ) , spine and associated tissues .
1 . 2 MRI of Extracranial / Extraspinal Head and Neck ProHance is indicated for MRI in adults to visualize lesions in the head and neck .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose in adult and pediatric patients is 0 . 2 mL / kg ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg ) body weight administered as rapid intravenous infusion or bolus ( 2 . 1 ) • Follow injection with a saline flush of at least 5 mL normal saline ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose for adult and pediatric patients , including term neonates , is 0 . 2 mL / kg ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg ) administered as a rapid intravenous infusion ( 10 mL / min to 60 mL / min ) or bolus ( greater than 60 mL / min ) .
Table 1 provides weight - adjusted recommended dose volumes .
Table 1 : Recommended Volume of ProHance Injection by Body Weight Body Weight ( kg ) Volume to be Administered ( mL ) 2 . 5 0 . 5 5 1 10 2 20 4 30 6 40 8 50 10 60 12 70 14 80 16 90 18 100 20 110 22 120 24 130 26 140 28 150 30 MRI of the CNS in Adults : • A supplementary dose of 0 . 4 mL / kg ( 0 . 2 mmol / kg ) may be given up to 30 minutes after the first dose in adult patients with normal renal function suspected of having poorly visualized CNS lesions , in the presence of negative or equivocal scans • The safety and efficacy of supplementary dosing have not been established in pediatric patients 2 . 2 Administration • Visually inspect ProHance for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use • Do not administer the solution if it is discolored or particulate matter is present • Concurrent medications or parenteral nutrition should not be physically mixed with contrast agents and should not be administered in the same intravenous line because of the potential for chemical incompatibility • Inject at least a 5 mL normal saline flush immediately after ProHance injection to ensure complete administration • Imaging procedures should be completed within 1 hour • ProHance vials are intended only for single - dose administration .
Administer immediately after opening and discard any unused product 2 . 3 Directions for Use Vials • Draw ProHance into the syringe immediately before use .
Do not pierce the rubber stopper more than once .
Discard any unused vial contents .
ProHance single dose syringe * • Screw the threaded tip of the plunger rod clockwise into the cartridge plunger and push forward a few millimeters to break any friction between the cartridge plunger and syringe barrel [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Holding syringe erect , unscrew the plastic tip cap from the tip of the syringe and attach either a sterile , disposable needle or tubing with a compatible Luer lock using a push - twist action ( slip tip ) • Hold the syringe erect and push plunger forward until all of the air is evacuated and fluid either appears at the tip of the needle or the tubing is filled • Following the usual aspiration procedure , complete the injection • Inject at least a 5 mL normal saline flush immediately after ProHance injection to ensure complete administration • Properly dispose of the syringe and any other materials used * The syringe assembly is a HYPAK SCF ® single dose syringe supplied by Becton Dickinson [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ProHance is supplied as a sterile , non - pyrogenic , and colorless to slightly yellow solution available in single - dose vials or prefilled syringes .
Each mL contains 279 . 3 mg ( 0 . 5 mmol / mL ) of gadoteridol for injection .
Injection : contains 279 . 3 mg / mL ( 0 . 5 mmol / mL ) of gadoteridol supplied in single dose vials or pre - filled syringes ( 2 . 3 , 3 , 16 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ProHance is contraindicated in patients with known allergic or hypersensitivity reactions to ProHance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions to ProHance ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis has occurred in patients with impaired elimination of GBCAs .
Higher than recommended dosing or repeated dosing appears to increase risk ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Hypersensitivity : anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions with cardiovascular , respiratory and cutaneous manifestations , ranging from mild to severe reactions including shock can occur .
Monitor patients closely for need of emergency cardiorespiratory support ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Gadolinium is retained for months or years in brain , bone , and other organs .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis ( NSF ) Gadolinium - based contrast agents ( GBCAs ) increase the risk for NSF among patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
Avoid use of GBCAs among these patients unless the diagnostic information is essential and not available with non - contrast MRI or other modalities .
The GBCA - associated NSF risk appears highest for patients with chronic , severe kidney disease ( GFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) as well as patients with acute kidney injury .
The risk appears lower for patients with chronic , moderate kidney disease ( GFR 30 - 59 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and little , if any , for patients with chronic , mild kidney disease ( GFR 60 - 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) .
NSF may result in fatal or debilitating fibrosis affecting the skin , muscle and internal organs .
Report any diagnosis of NSF following ProHance administration to Bracco Diagnostics ( 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 ) or FDA ( 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch ) .
Screen patients for acute kidney injury and other conditions that may reduce renal function .
Features of acute kidney injury consist of rapid ( over hours to days ) and usually reversible decrease in kidney function , commonly in the setting of surgery , severe infection , injury or drug - induced kidney toxicity .
Serum creatinine levels and estimated GFR may not reliably assess renal function in the setting of acute kidney injury .
For patients at risk for chronically reduced renal function ( for example , age greater than 60 years , diabetes mellitus or chronic hypertension ) , estimate the GFR through laboratory testing .
Among the factors that may increase the risk for NSF are repeated or higher than recommended doses of a GBCA and the degree of renal impairment at the time of exposure .
Record the specific GBCA and the dose administered to a patient .
For patients at highest risk for NSF , do not exceed the recommended ProHance dose and allow a sufficient period of time for elimination of the drug prior to re - administration .
For patients receiving hemodialysis , physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of a GBCA in order to enhance the contrast agent ’ s elimination .
The usefulness of hemodialysis in the prevention of NSF is unknown .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported , involving cardiovascular , respiratory , and / or cutaneous manifestations .
Some patients experienced circulatory collapse and died .
In most cases , initial symptoms occurred within minutes of ProHance administration and resolved with prompt emergency treatment .
Prior to ProHance administration , ensure the availability of trained personnel and medications to treat hypersensitivity reactions .
Consider the risk for hypersensitivity reactions , especially in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions or a history of asthma or other allergic disorders .
If such a reaction occurs , stop ProHance and immediately begin appropriate therapy .
Observe patients for signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction during and for up to 2 hours after ProHance administration .
5 . 3 Gadolinium Retention Gadolinium is retained for months or years in several organs .
The highest concentrations ( nanomoles per gram of tissue ) have been identified in the bone , followed by other organs ( e . g . brain , skin , kidney , liver , and spleen ) .
The duration of retention also varies by tissue and is longest in bone .
Linear GBCAs cause more retention than macrocyclic GBCAs .
At equivalent doses , retention varies among the linear agents with Omniscan ( gadodiamide ) and Optimark ( gadoversetamide ) causing greater retention than other linear agents [ Eovist ( gadoxetate disodium ) , Magnevist ( gadopentetate dimeglumine ) , MultiHance ( gadobenate dimeglumine ) ] .
Retention is lowest and similar among the macrocyclic GBCAs [ Dotarem ( gadoterate meglumine ) , Gadavist ( gadobutrol ) , ProHance ( gadoteridol ) ] .
Consequences of gadolinium retention in the brain have not been established .
Pathologic and clinical consequences of GBCA administration and retention in skin and other organs have been established in patients with impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
There are rare reports of pathologic skin changes in patients with normal renal function .
Adverse events involving multiple organ systems have been reported in patients with normal renal function without an established causal link to gadolinium retention [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
While clinical consequences of gadolinium retention have not been established in patients with normal renal function , certain patients might be at higher risk .
These include patients requiring multiple lifetime doses , pregnant and pediatric patients , and patients with inflammatory conditions .
Consider the retention characteristics of the agent when choosing a GBCA for these patients .
Minimize repetitive GBCA imaging studies , particularly closely spaced studies when possible .
5 . 4 Acute Kidney Injury ( AKI ) In patients with chronically reduced renal function , acute kidney injury requiring dialysis has occurred with the use of GBCAs .
The risk of acute kidney injury may increase with increasing dose of the contrast agent ; administer the lowest dose necessary for adequate imaging .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information : • Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The most commonly reported adverse reactions are nausea and taste perversion with an incidence ≥ 0 . 9 % ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , Contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc . at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse events described in this section were observed in clinical trials involving 3174 subjects ( including 2896 adults and 278 pediatric subjects ages 0 to 17 years ) exposed to ProHance .
Approximately 48 % of the subjects were men and ethnic distribution was 78 % Caucasian , 6 % Black , 3 % Hispanic , 6 % Asian , and 2 % other .
In 5 % of the subjects , race was not reported .
Average age was 47 years ( range from 1 day to 91 years ) and the exposure ranged from 0 . 03 to 0 . 3 mmol / kg .
Overall , approximately 5 . 8 % of subjects reported one or more adverse reactions during a follow - up period that ranged from 24 hours to 7 days after ProHance administration .
Table 2 lists adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 0 . 4 % subjects who received ProHance . Table 2 : More frequent adverse reactions in clinical trials Reaction Rate ( % ) N = 3174 Nausea 1 . 4 % Dysgeusia 0 . 9 % Headache 0 . 7 % Dizziness 0 . 4 % Urticaria 0 . 4 % The following additional adverse events occurred in fewer than 0 . 4 % of the subjects : General disorders and administration site conditions : Asthenia ; chest discomfort , facial edema , feeling hot , injection site coldness , injection site erythema , injection site pain , injection site warmth , pain , pyrexia Cardiac : Angina pectoris , palpitations , atrio - ventricular block first degree Ear and labyrinth disorders : Ear discomfort , tinnitus Eye disorders : Eye pruritis , lacrimation increased Gastrointestinal disorders : Abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , diarrhea , dry mouth , gingival pain , oral pruritis , swollen tongue , vomiting Infections and infestations : Gingivitis , rhinitis Investigations : Alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , blood chloride increased , blood pressure immeasurable , blood urea decreased , hemoglobin decreased , heart rate increased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Decreased appetite , hypoglycemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Back pain , musculoskeletal stiffness Nervous system disorders : Formication , hypoesthesia , hypokinesia , lethargy , loss of consciousness , migraine , paresthesia , presyncope , seizure , syncope , taste disorder Psychiatric disorders : Anxiety , mental status changes Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Cough , dry throat , dyspnea , nasal discomfort , throat irritation Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Hyperhidrosis , pruritis , rash , rash morbilliform Vascular disorders : Flushing , hypotension , peripheral coldness , vascular rupture , vasodilatation , vasospasm 6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ProHance that were not observed in the clinical trials .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
* Cases of acute renal failure have been reported in patients with pre - existing severe renal impairment .
The following adverse drug reactions have also been reported : General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Adverse events with variable onset and duration have been reported after GBCA administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
These include fatigue , asthenia , pain syndromes , and heterogeneous clusters of symptoms in the neurological , cutaneous , and musculoskeletal systems .
Cardiac disorders : Cardiac arrest , bradycardia , hypertension Immune system disorders : Hypersensitivity / anaphylactoid reactions including cardiac arrest , cyanosis , pharyngeal edema , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , angioedema , cough , sneezing , conjunctivitis , eyelid edema , hyperhidrosis , urticaria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Nervous system disorders : Coma , loss of consciousness , vasovagal reaction , tremor Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Respiratory arrest , pulmonary edema Renal and urinary system disorders : Acute renal failure * 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Use only if imaging is essential during pregnancy and cannot be delayed .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary GBCAs cross the placenta and result in fetal exposure and gadolinium retention .
The human data on the association between GBCAs and adverse fetal outcomes are limited and inconclusive ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential risks of gadolinium to the fetus , use ProHance only if imaging is essential during pregnancy and cannot be delayed .
In animal reproduction studies in rats , gadoteridol doubled the incidence of post - implantation loss at up to 16 times the recommended human dose ( RHD ) .
There were no adverse developmental effects observed in rabbits with intravenous administration of gadoteridol during organogenesis at doses up to 19 times the recommended human dose of 0 . 1 mmol / kg ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and is 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Contrast agent is visualized in the placenta and fetal tissues after maternal GBCA administration .
Cohort studies and case reports on exposure to GBCAs during pregnancy have not reported a clear association between GBCAs and adverse effects in the exposed neonates .
However , a retrospective cohort study , comparing pregnant women who had a GBCA MRI to pregnant women who did not have an MRI , reported a higher occurrence of stillbirths and neonatal deaths in the group receiving GBCA MRI .
Limitations of this study include a lack of comparison with non - contrast MRI and lack of information about the maternal indication for MRI .
Animal Data Gadolinium Retention GBCAs administered to pregnant non - human primates ( 0 . 1 mmol / kg on gestational days 85 and 135 ) result in measurable gadolinium concentration in the offspring in bone , brain , skin , liver , kidney , and spleen for at least 7 months .
GBCAs administered to pregnant mice ( 2 mmol / kg daily on gestational days 16 through 19 ) result in measurable gadolinium concentrations in the pups in bone , brain , kidney , liver , blood , muscle , and spleen at one - month postnatal age .
Reproductive Toxicology Gadoteridol was administered in intravenous doses of 0 , 0 . 375 , 1 . 5 , 6 . 0 , and 10 mmol / kg / day [ 0 . 6 , 2 . 4 , 9 . 7 , and 16 times the recommended human dose ( RHD ) based on body surface area ( BSA ) ] to female rats from gestational day ( GD ) 6 until GD17 .
Gadoteridol at 10 mmol / kg / day for 12 days during gestation doubled the incidence of post - implantation loss .
When rats were administered 6 . 0 or 10 . 0 mmol / kg / day for 12 days , an increase in spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in the offspring .
Pregnant rabbits were administered gadoteridol in intravenous doses of 0 , 0 . 4 , 1 . 5 , and 6 mmol / kg / day ( 1 . 3 , 4 . 8 , and 19 . 4 times the RHD based on BSA ) from GD6 to GD18 .
Gadoteridol increased the incidence of spontaneous abortion and early delivery in rabbits administered 6 mmol / kg / day for 13 days during gestation .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of gadoteridol in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , published lactation data on other GBCAs indicate that 0 . 01 to 0 . 04 % of the maternal gadolinium dose is present in breast milk and there is limited GBCA gastrointestinal absorption in the breast - fed infant .
Gadoteridol is present in rat milk ( see Data ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ProHance and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ProHance or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data ProHance excretion in the milk of lactating rats was evaluated at 30 minutes , 6 and 24 hours after intravenous administration of 0 . 1 mmol / kg of 153 Gd - gadoteridol to nursing mothers .
Small amounts of compound were found in milk immediately after injection ( 0 . 14 % of the ID ) , with the amount declining to a low level 24 hours after injection ( < 0 . 01 % of the ID ) .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ProHance have been established for use with MRI to visualize lesions with abnormal blood brain barrier or abnormal vascularity of the brain , spine , and associated tissues in pediatric patients from birth , including term neonates , to 17 years of age .
Pediatric use is based on evidence of effectiveness in adults and in 103 pediatric patients 2 years of age and older , in addition to experience in 125 pediatric patients birth to less than 2 years of age that supported extrapolation from adult data [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse reactions in pediatric patients were similar to those reported in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and efficacy of > 0 . 1 mmol / kg , and sequential and / or repeat procedures have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
No case of NSF associated with ProHance or any other GBCA has been identified in pediatric patients ages 6 years and younger .
Pharmacokinetic studies suggest that weight normalized clearance of ProHance is similar in pediatric patients and adults , including pediatric patients age younger than 2 years .
Normal estimated GFR ( eGFR ) is around 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 at birth and increases to mature levels around 1 year of age , reflecting growth in both glomerular function and relative body surface area .
Clinical studies in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age have been conducted in patients with the following minimum eGRF ; 59 . 37 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( age just after birth to < 30 days ) , 118 . 84 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( age 30 days to < 6 months ) , 140 . 44 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( age 6 to 12 months ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of 2673 adult subjects in clinical studies of ProHance , 22 % were 65 and over .
No overall differences in safety were observed between these elderly subjects and the younger subjects .
ProHance is known to be substantially excreted by the kidneys , and the risk of toxic reactions from ProHance may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No ProHance dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment .
Gadoteridol can be removed from the body by hemodialysis [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical consequences of overdose with ProHance have not been reported .
The safety of ProHance has been tested in clinical studies using doses up to 0 . 3 mmol / kg and no clinical consequences related to increasing dose have been observed to date .
ProHance can be removed by hemodialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ProHance , a gadolinium - based paramagnetic MRI contrast agent , is a colorless to slightly yellow aqueous , sterile , nonpyrogenic injectable solution .
Each mL contains 279 . 3 mg ( 0 . 5 mmol / mL ) gadoteridol , 0 . 23 mg calteridol calcium , 1 . 21 mg tromethamine and water for injection ; pH adjusted with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
ProHance contains no antimicrobial preservative .
Gadoteridol is the gadolinium complex of 10 - ( 2 - hydroxy - propyl ) - 1 , 4 , 7 , 10 - tetraazacyclododecane - 1 , 4 , 7 - triacetic acid with a molecular weight of 558 . 7 , an empirical formula of C17H29N4O7Gd and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ProHance has a pH of 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 .
Pertinent physiochemical parameters are provided below : Osmolality 630 mOsmol / kg water at 37 ° C Viscosity 1 . 3 cP at 37 ° C Density 1 . 137 g / mL at 25 ° C ProHance has an osmolality that is 2 . 2 times that of plasma ( 285 mOsmol / kg water ) and is hypertonic under conditions of use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Gadoteridol is a paramagnetic agent and , as such , develops a magnetic moment when placed in a magnetic field .
The relatively large magnetic moment produced by the paramagnetic agent results in a relatively large local magnetic field , which can enhance the relaxation rates of water protons in the vicinity of the paramagnetic agent .
In MRI , visualization of normal and pathologic brain tissue depends , in part , on variations in the radiofrequency signal intensity that occur with : 1 ) differences in proton density ; 2 ) differences of the spin - lattice or longitudinal relaxation times ( T1 ) ; and 3 ) differences in the spin - spin or transverse relaxation time ( T2 ) .
When placed in a magnetic field , gadoteridol decreases T1 relaxation times in the target tissues .
At recommended doses , the effect is observed with greatest sensitivity in the T1 - weighted sequences .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Gadoteridol affects proton relaxation times and consequently the MR signal .
Signal intensity is affected by the dose and relaxivity of the gadoteridol molecule .
Consistently , for all gadolinium based contrast agents , the relaxivity of gadoteridol decreases with the increase of the magnetic field strength used in clinical MRI ( 0 . 2 – 3 . 0 T ) .
Disruption of the blood - brain barrier or abnormal vascularity allows accumulation of gadoteridol in lesions such as neoplasms , abscesses , and subacute infarcts .
The pharmacokinetics of gadoteridol in various lesions is not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered gadoteridol in normal subjects conforms to a two - compartment open model .
Distribution After intravenous administration , gadoteridol is rapidly distributed in the extracellular space .
The plasma distribution volume ( mean ± SD ) for the non - renally impaired adults was 0 . 205 ± 0 . 025 L / kg .
It is unknown if protein binding of gadoteridol occurs in vivo .
Following GBCA administration , gadolinium is present for months or years in brain , bone , skin , and other organs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Metabolism It is unknown if biotransformation or decomposition of gadoteridol occur in vivo .
Elimination Gadoteridol is eliminated unchanged via the kidneys .
The elimination half - life ( mean ± SD ) is about 1 . 57 ± 0 . 08 hours .
Within 24 hours post - injection , 94 . 4 ± 4 . 8 % of the dose is excreted in the urine .
The renal and plasma clearance rates ( 1 . 41 ± 0 . 33 mL / min / kg and 1 . 50 ± 0 . 35 mL / min / kg , respectively ) of gadoteridol are essentially identical , indicating no alteration in elimination kinetics on passage through the kidneys and that the drug is essentially cleared through the kidney .
The volume of distribution ( 204 ± 58 mL / kg ) is equal to that of extracellular water , and clearance is similar to that of substances which are subject to glomerular filtration .
Specific Populations Gender Gender has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of gadoteridol .
Geriatric There were 7 elderly subjects receiving 0 . 1 ( n = 3 ) and 0 . 3 mmol / kg ( n = 4 ) dose of ProHance .
The clearance was slightly lower in elderly subjects as compared to non - elderly subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric A population pharmacokinetic analysis incorporated data from 79 subjects , 45 males and 34 females .
Among 79 subjects , 41 were healthy subjects including 28 pediatric subjects between 5 years and 15 years of age .
The pediatric subjects received a single intravenous dose of 0 . 1 mmol / kg of ProHance .
From population PK model , the mean Cmax was 0 . 66 ± 0 . 21 mmol / L in pediatric subjects 2 years to 6 years of age , 0 . 58 ± 0 . 06 mmol / L in pediatric subjects 6 years to 12 years of age , and 0 . 68 ± 0 . 12 mmol / L in adolescent subjects older than 12 years .
The mean AUC0 - ∞ was 0 . 74 ± 0 . 20 mmol / L ⋅ h in pediatric subjects 2 years to 6 years of age , 0 . 74 ± 0 . 09 mmol / L ⋅ h in pediatric subjects 6 years to 12 years of age , and 0 . 98 ± 0 . 09 mmol / L ⋅ h in adolescent subjects older than 12 years of age .
The mean distribution half - life ( t1 / 2 , alpha ) was 0 . 14 ± 0 . 04 hours in pediatric subjects 2 years to 6 years of age , 0 . 18 ± 0 . 07 hours in pediatric subjects 6 years to 12 years of age , and 0 . 20 ± 0 . 07 hours in adolescent subjects older than 12 years of age .
The mean elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 , beta ) was 1 . 32 ± 0 . 006 hours in pediatric subjects 2 years to 6 years , 1 . 32 ± 0 . 07 hours in pediatric subjects 6 years to 12 years of age , and 1 . 61 ± 0 . 19 hours in adolescent subjects older than 12 years of age .
There was no significant gender - related difference in the pharmacokinetic parameters in the pediatric patients .
Over 80 % of the dose was recovered in urine for pediatric subjects after 10 hours .
Pharmacokinetic simulations indicate similar half - life , AUC , and Cmax values for ProHance in pediatric subjects less than 2 years of age when compared to those reported for adults ; no age - based dose adjustment is necessary for this pediatric population .
Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function , the serum half - life of gadoteridol is prolonged .
After intravenous injection of 0 . 1 mmol / kg , the elimination half - life of gadoteridol was 10 . 65 ± 0 . 06 hours in mild to moderately impaired patients ( creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL / min ) and 9 . 10 ± 0 . 26 hours in severely impaired patients not on dialysis ( creatinine clearance 10 to 30 mL / min ) .
The mean serum clearance of gadoteridol in patients with normal renal function was 116 . 14 ± 26 . 77 mL / min , compared to 37 . 2 ± 16 . 4 mL / min in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment and 16 . 0 ± 3 . 0 mL / min in patients with severe renal impairment .
In patients with moderately and severely impaired renal function about 97 % and 76 % of the administered dose was recovered in the urine within 7 days and 14 days , respectively .
For patients receiving hemodialysis , physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following the administration of ProHance in order to enhance the contrast agent ’ s elimination .
Seventy - two percent ( 72 % ) of gadoteridol is removed from the body after the first dialysis , 91 % after the second dialysis , and 98 % after the third dialysis session .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) . ]
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of gadoteridol .
No changes in reproductive performance and outcome of pregnancy were caused in rats and rabbits by daily intravenous administration of ProHance to parent animals before and during gestation up to 1 . 5 mmol / kg / day ( 15 times the recommended human dose ) .
Gadoteridol did not demonstrate genotoxic activity in : bacterial reverse mutation assays using Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ; a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay ; an in vitro cytogenetic assay measuring chromosomal aberration frequencies in Chinese hamster ovary cells ; and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay at intravenous doses up to 5 . 0 mmol / kg .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 MRI of the CNS ProHance was evaluated in two multicenter trials of 310 evaluable patients suspected of having neurological pathology .
After the administration of ProHance 0 . 1 mmol / kg IV , the results were similar to those described below [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
In another multicenter study of 49 evaluable adult patients with known intracranial tumor with high suspicion of having cerebral metastases , two doses of ProHance were administered .
First ProHance 0 . 1 mmol / kg was injected followed 30 minutes later with 0 . 2 mmol / kg .
In comparison to the 0 . 1 mmol / kg dose alone , the addition of the 0 . 2 mmol / kg dose improved visualization in 67 % and improved border definition in 56 % of patients .
In comparison to non - contrast MRI , the number of lesions after 0 . 1 mmol / kg increased in 34 % of patients .
After ProHance 0 . 2 mmol / kg , this increased to 44 % .
Pediatric Patients ProHance was evaluated in a multicenter study of 103 patients undergoing brain or spine MRI .
Among these patients , the age range was 2 to 20 years ; 54 were between 2 and 12 years of age ; 74 % were Caucasian , 11 % Black , 12 % Hispanic , 2 % Asian , and 2 % other .
ProHance was given in one single 0 . 1 mmol / kg dose .
Repeat dosing was not studied .
The results of the non - contrast and ProHance MRI scans were compared .
In this database , MRI enhancement was noted in approximately 60 % of the scans and additional diagnostic information in 30 to 95 % of the scans .
A prospectively planned study of 125 pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age retrospectively selected was performed .
These patients ( 70 boys and 55 girls ) had an age range of 1 day to 24 months old ; 17 were less than 1 month of age , 40 were between 1 month and 6 months of age , 29 were between 6 months and 12 months of age , and 39 were between 12 months and 24 months of age ; 56 % were Caucasian , 25 % Black , 5 % Asian , and 14 % other .
ProHance was given in one single 0 . 1 mmol / kg dose .
Repeat dosing was not studied .
Three independent , blinded readers evaluated pre - contrast MRI image sets and paired pre - plus - post - contrast MRI image sets using ProHance and rated the images according to three co - primary visualization endpoints : lesion border delineation , visualization of lesion internal morphology , and lesion contrast enhancement .
All three blinded readers reported improvement in the paired image sets for each of the three co - primary endpoints .
14 . 2 MRI of the Head and Neck ProHance was evaluated in two blinded read studies in a total of 133 adults who had an indication for head and neck extracranial or extraspinal MRI .
These 133 adults ( 74 men , 59 women ) had a mean age of 53 with a range of 19 to 76 years .
Of these patients , 85 % were Caucasian , 13 % Black , 2 % Asian , and less than 1 % other .
The results of the non - contrast and contrast MRI scans were compared .
Approximately 75 - 82 % of the scans were enhanced , 45 - 48 % of the scans provided additional diagnostic information , and 8 - 25 % of the diagnoses were changed .
The relevance of the findings to disease sensitivity and specificity has not been fully evaluated .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied ProHance is supplied as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , and colorless to slightly yellow solution containing 279 . 3 mg / mL ( 0 . 5 mmol / mL ) of gadoteridol in single - dose rubber stoppered vials or prefilled syringes ; ProHance is available in boxes of : Five 5 mL fills in single dose 15 mL vials ( NDC 0270 - 1111 - 04 ) Five 10 mL fills in single dose 30 mL vials ( NDC 0270 - 1111 - 01 ) Five 15 mL fills in single dose 30 mL vials ( NDC 0270 - 1111 - 02 ) Five 20 mL fills in single dose 30 mL vials ( NDC 0270 - 1111 - 03 ) Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
DO NOT FREEZE .
Should freezing occur in the vial , ProHance should be brought to room temperature before use .
If allowed to stand at room temperature for a minimum of 60 minutes , ProHance should return to a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Before use , examine the product to assure that all solids are redissolved and that the container and closure have not been damaged .
Should solids persist , discard vial .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Medication Guide • Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis Instruct patients to inform their physician if they : • have a history of kidney disease • have recently received a GBCA GBCAs increase the risk for NSF in patients with impaired elimination of the drugs .
To counsel patients at risk for NSF : • describe the clinical manifestations of NSF • describe procedures to screen for the detection of renal impairment Instruct patients to contact their physician if they develop signs or symptoms of NSF following ProHance administration , such as burning , itching , swelling , scaling , hardening and tightening of the skin ; red or dark patches on the skin ; stiffness in joints with trouble moving , bending or straightening the arms , hands , legs or feet ; pain in the hip bones or ribs ; or muscle weakness .
General Precautions • Pregnancy : Advise a pregnant woman of the potential risk of fetal exposure to ProHance [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Gadolinium retention : Advise patients that gadolinium is retained for months or years in brain , bone , skin , and other organs in patients with normal renal function .
The clinical consequences of retention are unknown .
Retention depends on multiple factors and is greater following administration of linear GBCAs than following administration of macrocyclic GBCAs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Twp . , NJ 08831 By BIPSO GmbH 78224 Singen ( Germany ) June 2022 CL101A03 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 12 / 2020 COEB504 MEDICATION GUIDE PROHANCE ® ( prō - ˈhan ( t ) s ) ( Gadoteridol injection ) for intravenous use What is PROHANCE ?
• PROHANCE is a prescription medicine called a gadolinium - based contrast agent ( GBCA ) .
PROHANCE , like other GBCAs , is used with a magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) scanner .
• An MRI exam with a GBCA , including PROHANCE , helps your doctor to see problems better than an MRI exam without a GBCA .
• Your doctor has reviewed your medical records and has determined that you would benefit from using a GBCA with your MRI exam .
What is the most important information I should know about PROHANCE ?
• PROHANCE contains a metal called gadolinium .
Small amounts of gadolinium can stay in your body including the brain , bones , skin and other parts of your body for a long time ( several months to years ) .
• It is not known how gadolinium may affect you , but so far , studies have not found harmful effects in patients with normal kidneys .
• Rarely , patients have reported pains , tiredness , and skin , muscle or bone ailments for a long time , but these symptoms have not been directly linked to gadolinium .
• There are different GBCAs that can be used for your MRI exam .
The amount of gadolinium that stays in the body is different for different gadolinium medicines .
Gadolinium stays in the body more after Omniscan or Optimark than after Eovist , Magnevist , or MultiHance .
Gadolinium stays in the body the least after Dotarem , Gadavist , or ProHance .
• People who get many doses of gadolinium medicines , women who are pregnant and young children may be at increased risk from gadolinium staying in the body .
• Some people with kidney problems who get gadolinium medicines can develop a condition with severe thickening of the skin , muscles and other organs in the body ( nephrogenic systemic fibrosis ) .
Your healthcare provider should screen you to see how well your kidneys are working before you receive PROHANCE .
Do not receive PROHANCE if you have had a severe allergic reaction to PROHANCE .
Before receiving PROHANCE , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have had any MRI procedures in the past where you received a GBCA .
Your healthcare provider may ask you for more information including the dates of these MRI procedures .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PROHANCE can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the possible risks to an unborn baby if a GBCA such as PROHANCE is received during pregnancy • have kidney problems , diabetes , or high blood pressure • have had an allergic reaction to dyes ( contrast agents ) including GBCAs What are the possible side effects of PROHANCE ?
• See “ What is the most important information I should know about PROHANCE ? ”
• Allergic reactions .
PROHANCE can cause allergic reactions that can sometimes be serious .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you closely for symptoms of an allergic reaction .
The most common side effects of PROHANCE include : nausea , distortion of the sense of taste , and headache .
These are not all the possible side effects of PROHANCE .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of PROHANCE .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about PROHANCE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in PROHANCE ?
Active ingredient : gadoteridol Inactive ingredients : calteridol calcium , tromethamine Manufactured by : BIPSO GmbH - 78224 Singen ( Germany ) Manufactured for : Bracco Diagnostics Inc . , Monroe Township , NJ 08831 For more information , go to www . imaging . bracco . com or call 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 .
Prohance 5 mL Vial label NDC 0270 - 1111 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prohance 10 mL Syringe label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
