Active ingredients Bacitracin 500 units Neomycin 3 . 5 .
mg Polymyxin B 10 , 000 units Purpose First Aid Antibiotic Active ingredient Lidocaine Hydrochloride 4 % Purpose Local Anesthetic Uses • First aid to help prevent the infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • For the temporary relief of pain or itching .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if allergic to any of the ingredients • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Consult a doctor • if under 2 years of age • in case of deep cuts or puncture wounds , animal or human bites , or serious burns • if pregnant or breast feeding .
Stop use and consult a doctor • if the condition persists or worsens • if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • if a rash or other allergic reaction develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions for use • Clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of the finger ) on the area 3 times daily .
• may be covered with a sterile bandage • store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° ( 59 ° - 86 ° ) .
Inactive ingredients acrylates / dimethicone coploymer , allantoin , aloe barbadensis ( aloe vera ) leaf juice , arachidyl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , arnica montana flower extract , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) , behenyl alcohol , beta - glucan , benzalkonium chloride , beta - glucan , butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , C 12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , cyclopentasiloxane , dimethicone , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , glycerin , glycine soja ( soybean ) oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , hydrolyzed mytilus edulis byssus , methylparaben , panthenol , persea gratissima ( avocado ) oil , phenoxyethanol , polyglyceryl - 6 distearate , propylparaben , sclerotium gum , tocopherol , water ( aqua ) Manufactured in the USA for : Physician ' s Science and Nature , Inc .
220 Newport Center Drive , 11 - 634 , Newport Beach , CA 92660 www . procomycin . com Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
Corona , CA 92880 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
