Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or highter and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients water , diisopropyl adipate , cyclomethicone , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , tocopyeryl acetate , carbomer , disodium EDTA , trietanoolamine , potassium sorbate claims This product is not manufactured or distributed by Galdema Laboatories , L . P . , distributor of Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer SPF 15 Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , Inc . , St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Olay wo n't clog Pores UVA / UVB protection vitamin E & C enriched SPF 15 moisturizing beuty lotion broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
