DESCRIPTION HALOTESTIN Tablets contain fluoxymesterone , an androgenic hormone .
Fluoxymesterone is a white or nearly white , odorless , crystalline powder , melting at or about 240 ° C , with some decomposition .
It is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform .
The chemical name for fluoxymesterone is androst - 4 - en - 3 - one , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - 17 - methyl - , ( 11β , 17β ) - .
The molecular formula is C20H29FO3 and the molecular weight 336 . 45 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each HALOTESTIN tablet , for oral administration , contains 2 mg , 5 mg or 10 mg fluoxymesterone .
Inactive ingredients : calcium stearate , corn starch , FD & C Yellow No . 5 , lactose , sorbic acid , sucrose , tragacanth .
In addition , the 2 mg tablet contains FD & C Yellow No . 6 and the 5 mg and 10 mg contain FD & C Blue No . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Endogenous androgens are responsible for normal growth and development of the male sex organs and for maintenance of secondary sex characteristics .
These effects include growth and maturation of the prostate , seminal vesicles , penis , and scrotum ; development of male hair distribution , such as beard , pubic , chest , and axillary hair ; laryngeal enlargement , vocal cord thickening , and alterations in body musculature and fat distribution .
Drugs in this class also cause retention of nitrogen , sodium , potassium , and phosphorus , and decreased urinary excretion of calcium .
Androgens have been reported to increase protein anabolism and decrease protein catabolism .
Nitrogen balance is improved only when there is sufficient intake of calories and protein .
Androgens are responsible for the growth spurt of adolescence and for eventual termination of linear growth , brought about by fusion of the epiphyseal growth centers .
In children , exogenous androgens accelerate linear growth rates , but may cause disproportionate advancement in bone maturation .
Use over long periods may result in fusion of the epiphyseal growth centers and termination of the growth process .
Androgens have been reported to stimulate production of red blood cells by enhancing production of erythropoietic stimulation factor .
During exogenous administration of androgens , endogenous testosterone release is inhibited through feedback inhibition of pituitary luteinizing hormone ( LH ) .
At large doses of exogenous androgens , spermatogenesis may also be suppressed through feedback inhibition of pituitary follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) .
Inactivation of testosterone occurs primarily in the liver .
The half - life of fluoxymesterone after oral administration is approximately 9 . 2 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE In the male — HALOTESTIN Tablets are indicated for • Replacement therapy in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone .
• Primary hypogonadism ( congenital or acquired ) testicular failure due to cryptorchidism , bilateral torsion , orchitis , vanishing testis syndrome ; or orchidectomy .
• Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( congenital or acquired ) — idiopathic gonadotropin or LHRH deficiency , or pituitary - hypothalamic injury from tumors , trauma , or radiation .
• Delayed puberty , provided it has been definitely established as such , and is not just a familial trait .
In the female — HALOTESTIN Tablets are indicated for palliation of androgen - responsive recurrent mammary cancer in women who are more than one year but less than five years postmenopausal , or who have been proven to have a hormone - dependent tumor as shown by previous beneficial response to castration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to the drug • Males with carcinoma of the breast • Males with known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland • Women known or suspected to be pregnant • Patients with serious cardiac , hepatic or renal disease WARNINGS Hypercalcemia may occur in immobilized patients and in patients with breast cancer .
If this occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Prolonged use of high doses of androgens ( principally the 17 - α alkyl - androgens ) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas , hepatocellular carcinoma , and peliosis hepatis — all potentially life - threatening complications .
Cholestatic hepatitis and jaundice may occur with 17 - α - alkyl - androgens .
Should this occur , the drug should be discontinued .
This is reversible with discontinuation of the drug .
Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking .
Edema , with or without congestive heart failure , may be a serious complication in patients with pre - existing cardiac , renal or hepatic disease .
Gynecomastia may develop and occasionally persists in patients being treated for hypogonadism .
Androgen therapy should be used cautiously in males with delayed puberty .
Androgens can accelerate bone maturation without producing compensatory gain in linear growth .
The effect on bone maturation should be monitored by assessing bone age of the wrist and hand every six months .
This drug has not been shown to be safe and effective for the enhancement of athletic performance .
Because of the potential risk of serious adverse health effects , this drug should not be used for such purpose .
PRECAUTIONS General Women should be observed for signs of virilization which is usual following androgen use at high doses .
Discontinuation of drug therapy at the time of evidence of mild virilism is necessary to prevent irreversible virilization .
A decision may be made by the patient and the physician that some virilization will be tolerated during treatment for breast carcinoma .
Patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy may develop acute urethral obstruction .
Priapism or excessive sexual stimulation may develop .
Oligospermia may occur after prolonged administration or excessive dosage .
If any of these effects appear , the androgen should be stopped and if restarted , a lower dosage should be utilized .
This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Information for patients Patients should be instructed to report any of the following : nausea , vomiting , changes in skin color , and ankle swelling .
Males should be instructed to report too frequent or persistent erections of the penis and females any hoarseness , acne , changes in menstrual periods or increase in facial hair .
Laboratory tests Women with disseminated breast carcinoma should have frequent determination of urine and serum calcium levels during the course of androgen therapy ( See WARNINGS ) .
Because of the hepatotoxicity associated with the use of 17 - alpha - alkylated androgens , liver function tests should be obtained periodically .
Periodic ( every six months ) X - ray examinations of bone age should be made during treatment of prepubertal males to determine the rate of bone maturation and the effects of androgen therapy on the epiphyseal centers .
Hemoglobin and hematocrit levels ( to detect polycythemia ) should be checked periodically in patients receiving long - term androgen administration .
Serum cholesterol may increase during androgen therapy .
Drug interactions Androgens may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants .
Dosage of the anticoagulant may require reduction in order to maintain satisfactory therapeutic hypoprothrombinemia .
Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone .
In diabetic patients , the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and , therefore , insulin requirements .
Drug / Laboratory test interferences Androgens may decrease levels of thyroxine - binding globulin , resulting in decreased total T4 serum levels and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4 .
Free thyroid hormone levels remain unchanged , however , and there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment Of Fertility Animal data : Testosterone has been tested by subcutaneous injection and implantation in mice and rats .
The implant induced cervical - uterine tumors in mice , which metastasized in some cases .
There is suggestive evidence that injection of testosterone into some strains of female mice increases their susceptibility to hepatoma .
Testosterone is also known to increase the number of tumors and decrease the degree of differentiation of chemically - induced carcinomas of the liver in rats .
Human data : There are rare reports of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients receiving long - term therapy with androgens in high doses .
Withdrawal of the drugs did not lead to regression of the tumors in all cases .
Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking .
This compound has not been tested for mutagenic potential .
However , as noted above , carcinogenic effects have been attributed to treatment with androgenic hormones .
The potential carcinogenic effects likely occur through a hormonal mechanism rather than by a direct chemical interaction mechanism .
Impairment of fertility was not tested directly in animal species .
However , as noted below under Adverse Reactions , oligospermia in males and amenorrhea in females are potential adverse effects of treatment with HALOTESTIN Tablets .
Therefore , impairment of fertility is a possible outcome of treatment with HALOTESTIN .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category X . ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Nursing mothers HALOTESTIN is not recommended for use in nursing mothers .
Pediatric use Androgen therapy should be used very cautiously in children and only by specialists aware of the adverse effects on bone maturation .
Skeletal maturation must be monitored every six months by an X - ray of the hand and wrist ( See WARNINGS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Endocrine and urogenital Female : the most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities ; inhibition of gonadotropin secretion ; and virilization , including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement .
The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued .
When administered to a pregnant woman , androgens can cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus .
Male : Gynecomastia , and excessive frequency and duration of penile erections .
Oligospermia may occur at high dosage .
Skin and appendages Hirsutism , male pattern of baldness , seborrhea , and acne .
Fluid and electrolyte disturbances Retention of sodium , chloride , water , potassium , calcium , and inorganic phosphates .
Gastrointestinal Nausea , cholestatic jaundice , alterations in liver function tests , rarely hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis ( See WARNINGS ) .
Hematologic Suppression of clotting factors II , V , VII , and X , bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy , and polycythemia .
Nervous system Increased or decreased libido , headache , anxiety , depression , and generalized paresthesia .
Allergic Hypersensitivity , including skin manifestations and anaphylactoid reactions .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Class Fluoxymesterone is a controlled substance under the Anabolic Steroids Control Act , and HALOTESTIN Tablets has been assigned to Schedule III .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of acute overdosage with the androgens .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage will vary depending upon the individual , the condition being treated , and its severity .
The total daily oral dose may be administered singly or in divided ( three or four ) doses .
Male hypogonadism For complete replacement in the hypogonadal male , a daily dose of 5 to 20 mg will suffice in the majority of patients .
It is usually preferable to begin treatment with full therapeutic doses which are later adjusted to individual requirements .
Priapism is indicative of excessive dosage and is indication fortemporary withdrawal of the drug .
Delayed puberty Dosage should be carefully titrated utilizing a low dose , appropriate skeletal monitoring , and by limiting the duration of therapy to four to six months .
Inoperable carcinoma of the breast in the female The recommended total daily dose for palliative therapy in advanced inoperable carcinoma of the breast is 10 to 40 mg .
Because of its short action , fluoxymesterone should be administered to patients in divided , rather than single , daily doses to ensure more stable blood levels .
In general , it appears necessary to continue therapy for at least one month for a satisfactory subjective response , and for two to three months for an objective response .
HOW SUPPLIED HALOTESTIN Tablets , round and scored , are available in the following strengths and colors : 2 mg ( peach ) Bottles of 100 NDC 0009 - 0014 - 01 5 mg ( light green ) Bottles of 100 NDC 0009 - 0019 - 06 10 mg ( green ) Bottles of 30 NDC 0009 - 0036 - 03 Bottles of 100 NDC 0009 - 0036 - 04 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] 810 804 708 692851 May 2002
