Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Isostearyl isostearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Cyclohexasiloxane , Glyeryl stearate , Tribehenin , Cetearyl alcohol , PEG - 100 stearate , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Myristyl myristate , Rosa canina fruit oil , Dimethiconol , Butylene glycol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Sodium lauroyl lactylate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Retinyl palmitate , Diospyros kaki calyx extract , Cholesterol , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Propylene glycol , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Ceramide 3 , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Ceramide 6 ll , Phytosphingosine , Tocopherol , Triethyl citrate , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Ceramide 1 , CI77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI14700 ( Red 4 ) The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Made in the UK www . boots . com Description Nourishes and revitalises maure skin to reveal younger looking , firmer feeling and more even toned skin in 4 weeks .
Nourish and revitalise your skin with this protecting and replenishing daytime formula .
Created to provide day long hydration , replenish lost lipids and help boost your skin ' s repair and recovery processes .
The result is smoother , plumper looking skin that feels fimer and has a renewed healthy glow .
Our intensive nourishing complex containing an optimum blend of lipids works to deeply moisturise your skin and help strengthen its resilience to future dryness .
For Best Results : Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
