For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION AZELEX ® ( azelaic acid cream ) 20 % contains azelaic acid , a naturally occurring saturated dicarboxylic acid .
Structural Formula : HOOC - ( CH2 ) 7 - COOH Chemical Name : 1 , 7 - heptanedicarboxylic acid Empirical Formula : C9H16O4 Molecular Weight : 188 . 22 Active Ingredient : Each gram of AZELEX ® contains azelaic acid ......... 0 . 2 gm ( 20 % w / w ) .
Inactive Ingredients : cetearyl octanoate ; glycerin ; glyceryl stearate and cetearyl alcohol and cetyl palmitate and cocoglycerides ; PEG - 5 glyceryl stearate ; propylene glycol ; and purified water .
Benzoic acid is present as a preservative .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism of action of azelaic acid is not known .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Azelaic acid has been shown to possess antimicrobial activity against Propionibacterium acnes and Staphylococcus epidermidis .
The antimicrobial action may be attributable to inhibition of microbial cellular protein synthesis .
A normalization of keratinization leading to an anticomedonal effect of azelaic acid may also contribute to its clinical activity .
Electron microscopic and immunohistochemical evaluation of skin biopsies from human subjects treated with AZELEX ® Cream demonstrated a reduction in the thickness of the stratum corneum , a reduction in number and size of keratohyalin granules , and a reduction in the amount and distribution of filaggrin ( a protein component of keratohyalin ) in epidermal layers .
This is suggestive of the ability to decrease microcomedo formation .
Pharmacokinetics : Following a single application of AZELEX ® Cream to human skin in vitro , azelaic acid penetrates into the stratum corneum ( approximately 3 to 5 % of the applied dose ) and other viable skin layers ( up to 10 % of the dose is found in the epidermis and dermis ) .
Negligible cutaneous metabolism occurs after topical application .
Approximately 4 % of the topically applied azelaic acid is systemically absorbed .
Azelaic acid is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine but undergoes some β - oxidation to shorter chain dicarboxylic acids .
The observed half - lives in healthy subjects are approximately 45 minutes after oral dosing and 12 hours after topical dosing , indicating percutaneous absorption rate - limited kinetics .
Azelaic acid is a dietary constituent ( whole grain cereals and animal products ) , and can be formed endogenously from longer - chain dicarboxylic acids , metabolism of oleic acid , and ψ - oxidation of monocarboxylic acids .
Endogenous plasma concentration ( 20 to 80 ng / mL ) and daily urinary excretion ( 4 to 28 mg ) of azelaic acid are highly dependent on dietary intake .
After topical treatment with AZELEX ® Cream in humans , plasma concentration and urinary excretion of azelaic acid are not significantly different from baseline levels .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE AZELEX ® Cream is indicated for the topical treatment of mild - to - moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS AZELEX ® Cream is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS AZELEX ® Cream is for dermatologic use only and not for ophthalmic use .
There have been isolated reports of hypopigmentation after use of azelaic acid .
Since azelaic acid has not been well studied in patients with dark complexions , these patients should be monitored for early signs of hypopigmentation .
PRECAUTIONS General : If sensitivity or severe irritation develop with the use of AZELEX ® Cream , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for patients : Patients should be told : • To use AZELEX ® Cream for the full prescribed treatment period .
• To avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings .
• To keep AZELEX ® Cream away from the mouth , eyes and other mucous membranes .
If it does come in contact with the eyes , they should wash their eyes with large amounts of water and consult a physician if eye irritation persists .
• If they have dark complexions , to report abnormal changes in skin color to their physician .
• Due in part to the low pH of azelaic acid , temporary skin irritation ( pruritus , burning , or stinging ) may occur when AZELEX ® Cream is applied to broken or inflamed skin , usually at the start of treatment .
However , this irritation commonly subsides if treatment is continued .
If it continues , AZELEX ® Cream should be applied only once - a - day , or the treatment should be stopped until these effects have subsided .
If troublesome irritation persists , use should be discontinued , and patients should consult their physician .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Azelaic acid is a human dietary component of a simple molecular structure that does not suggest carcinogenic potential , and it does not belong to a class of drugs for which there is a concern about carcinogenicity .
Therefore , animal studies to evaluate carcinogenic potential with AZELEX ® Cream were not deemed necessary .
In a battery of tests ( Ames assay , HGPRT test in Chinese hamster ovary cells , human lymphocyte test , dominant lethal assay in mice ) , azelaic acid was found to be nonmutagenic .
Animal studies have shown no adverse effects on fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Embryotoxic effects were observed in Segment I and Segment II oral studies with rats receiving 2500 mg / kg / day of azelaic acid .
Similar effects were observed in Segment II studies in rabbits given 150 to 500 mg / kg / day and in monkeys given 500 mg / kg / day .
The doses at which these effects were noted were all within toxic dose ranges for the dams .
No teratogenic effects were observed .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Equilibrium dialysis was used to assess human milk partitioning in vitro .
At an azelaic acid concentration of 25 μg / mL , the milk / plasma distribution coefficient was 0 . 7 and the milk / buffer distribution was 1 . 0 , indicating that passage of drug into maternal milk may occur .
Since less than 4 % of a topically applied dose is systemically absorbed , the uptake of azelaic acid into maternal milk is not expected to cause a significant change from baseline azelaic acid levels in the milk .
However , caution should be exercised when AZELEX ® Cream is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 12 years of age have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of AZELEX ® Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During U . S . clinical trials with AZELEX ® Cream , adverse reactions were generally mild and transient in nature .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1 - 5 % of patients were pruritus , burning , stinging and tingling .
Other adverse reactions such as erythema , dryness , rash , peeling , irritation , dermatitis , and contact dermatitis were reported in less than 1 % of subjects .
There is the potential for experiencing allergic reactions with use of AZELEX ® Cream .
In patients using azelaic acid formulations , the following additional adverse experiences have been reported rarely : worsening of asthma , vitiligo depigmentation , small depigmented spots , hypertrichosis , reddening ( signs of keratosis pilaris ) , and exacerbation of recurrent herpes labialis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION After the skin is thoroughly washed and patted dry , a thin film of AZELEX ® Cream should be gently but thoroughly massaged into the affected areas twice daily , in the morning and evening .
The hands should be washed following application .
The duration of use of AZELEX ® Cream can vary from person to person and depends on the severity of the acne .
Improvement of the condition occurs in the majority of patients with inflammatory lesions within four weeks .
HOW SUPPLIED AZELEX ® Cream is supplied in a closed orifice tube with a white , spiked screwcap in the following sizes : 30 g - NDC 54868 - 4442 - 0 Note : Protect from freezing .
Store product on its side .
Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Rx Only .
Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Irvine , California 92612 , U . S . A . © 2004 Allergan , Inc .
Made in Italy 8466 X Distributed under license .
® Mark of Allergan , Inc .
Revised May 2004 70896US15P Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 4442 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] AZELEX ® ( azelaic acid cream ) 20 % For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
