SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION Ethacrynic Acid Tablets USP Ethacrynic acid is a potent diuretic which , if given in excessive amounts , may lead to profound diuresis with water and electrolyte depletion .
Therefore , careful medical supervision is required , and dose and dose schedule must be adjusted to the individual patient ' s needs ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
DESCRIPTION Ethacrynic acid is an unsaturated ketone derivative of an aryloxyacetic acid .
It is designated chemically as [ 2 , 3 - dichloro - 4 - ( 2 - methylene - 1 - oxobutyl ) phenoxy ] acetic acid , and has a molecular weight of 303 . 14 .
Ethacrynic acid is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder , very slightly soluble in water , but soluble in most organic solvents such as alcohols , chloroform , and benzene .
Its empirical formula is C13H12Cl2O4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethacrynic Acid Tablets USP , are supplied as 25 mg tablets for oral use .
The tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : calcium stearate , lactose monohydrate and pre - gelatinized starch .
FDA approved dissolution specifications differ from the USP dissolution specifications .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Ethacrynic acid acts on the ascending limb of the loop of Henle and on the proximal and distal tubules .
Urinary output is usually dose dependent and related to the magnitude of fluid accumulation .
Water and electrolyte excretion may be increased several times over that observed with thiazide diuretics , since ethacrynic acid inhibits reabsorption of a much greater proportion of filtered sodium than most other diuretic agents .
Therefore , ethacrynic acid is effective in many patients who have significant degrees of renal insufficiency ( seeWARNINGSconcerning deafness ) .
Ethacrynic acid has little or no effect on glomerular filtration or on renal blood flow , except following pronounced reductions in plasma volume when associated with rapid diuresis .
The electrolyte excretion pattern of ethacrynic acid varies from that of the thiazides and mercurial diuretics .
Initial sodium and chloride excretion is usually substantial and chloride loss exceeds that of sodium .
With prolonged administration , chloride excretion declines , and potassium and hydrogen ion excretion may increase .
Ethacrynic acid is effective whether or not there is clinical acidosis or alkalosis .
Although ethacrynic acid , in carefully controlled studies in animals and experimental subjects , produces a more favorable sodium / potassium excretion ratio than the thiazides , in patients with increased diuresis excessive amounts of potassium may be excreted .
Onset of action is rapid , usually within 30 minutes after an oral dose of ethacrynic acid or within 5 minutes after an intravenous injection of ethacrynate sodium .
After oral use , diuresis peaks in about 2 hours and lasts about 6 to 8 hours .
The sulfhydryl binding propensity of ethacrynic acid differs somewhat from that of the organomercurials .
Its mode of action is not by carbonic anhydrase inhibition .
Ethacrynic acid does not cross the blood - brain barrier .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Ethacrynic Acid Tablets USP , are indicated for treatment of edema when an agent with greater diuretic potential than those commonly employed is required .
• Treatment of the edema associated with congestive heart failure , cirrhosis of the liver , and renal disease , including the nephrotic syndrome .
• Short - term management of ascites due to malignancy , idiopathic edema , and lymphedema .
• Short - term management of hospitalized pediatric patients , other than infants , with congenital heart disease or the nephrotic syndrome .
• Intravenous ethacrynate sodium is indicated when a rapid onset of diuresis is desired , e . g . , in acute pulmonary edema , or when gastrointestinal absorption is impaired or oral medication is not practicable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS All diuretics , including ethacrynic acid , are contraindicated in anuria .
If increasing electrolyte imbalance , azotemia , and / or oliguria occur during treatment of severe , progressive renal disease , the diuretic should be discontinued .
In a few patients this diuretic has produced severe , watery diarrhea .
If this occurs , it should be discontinued and not used again .
Until further experience in infants is accumulated , therapy with oral and parenteral ethacrynic acid is contraindicated .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS The effects of ethacrynic acid on electrolytes are related to its renal pharmacologic activity and are dose dependent .
The possibility of profound electrolyte and water loss may be avoided by weighing the patient throughout the treatment period , by careful adjustment of dosage , by initiating treatment with small doses , and by using the drug on an intermittent schedule when possible .
When excessive diuresis occurs , the drug should be withdrawn until homeostasis is restored .
When excessive electrolyte loss occurs , the dosage should be reduced or the drug temporarily withdrawn .
Initiation of diuretic therapy with ethacrynic acid in the cirrhotic patient with ascites is best carried out in the hospital .
When maintenance therapy has been established , the individual can be satisfactorily followed as an outpatient .
Ethacrynic acid should be given with caution to patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver , particularly those with a history of previous episodes of electrolyte imbalance or hepatic encephalopathy .
Like other diuretics it may precipitate hepatic coma and death .
Too vigorous a diuresis , as evidenced by rapid and excessive weight loss , may induce an acute hypotensive episode .
In elderly cardiac patients , rapid contraction of plasma volume and the resultant hemoconcentration should be avoided to prevent the development of thromboembolic episodes , such as cerebral vascular thromboses and pulmonary emboli which may be fatal .
Excessive loss of potassium in patients receiving digitalis glycosides may precipitate digitalis toxicity .
Care should also be exercised in patients receiving potassium - depleting steroids .
A number of possibly drug - related deaths have occurred in critically ill patients refractory to other diuretics .
These generally have fallen into two categories : ( 1 ) patients with severe myocardial disease who have been receiving digitalis and presumably developed acute hypokalemia with fatal arrhythmia ; ( 2 ) patients with severely decompensated hepatic cirrhosis with ascites , with or without accompanying encephalopathy , who were in electrolyte imbalance and died because of intensification of the electrolyte defect .
Deafness , tinnitus , and vertigo with a sense of fullness in the ears have occurred , most frequently in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
These symptoms have been associated most often with intravenous administration and with doses in excess of those recommended .
The deafness has usually been reversible and of short duration ( one to 24 hours ) .
However , in some patients the hearing loss has been permanent .
A number of these patients were also receiving drugs known to be ototoxic .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the ototoxic potential of other drugs ( seePRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics ( seePRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Weakness , muscle cramps , paresthesias , thirst , anorexia , and signs of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and / or hypochloremic alkalosis may occur following vigorous or excessive diuresis and these may be accentuated by rigid salt restriction .
Rarely , tetany has been reported following vigorous diuresis .
During therapy with ethacrynic acid , liberalization of salt intake and supplementary potassium chloride are often necessary .
When a metabolic alkalosis may be anticipated , e . g . , in cirrhosis with ascites , the use of potassium chloride or a potassium - sparing agent before and during therapy with ethacrynic acid may mitigate or prevent the hypokalemia .
Loop diuretics have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
The safety and efficacy of ethacrynic acid in hypertension have not been established .
However , the dosage of coadministered antihypertensive agents may require adjustment .
Orthostatic hypotension may occur in patients receiving other antihypertensive agents when given ethacrynic acid .
Ethacrynic acid has little or no effect on glomerular filtration or on renal blood flow , except following pronounced reductions in plasma volume when associated with rapid diuresis .
A transient increase in serum urea nitrogen may occur .
Usually , this is readily reversible when the drug is discontinued .
As with other diuretics used in the treatment of renal edema , hypoproteinemia may reduce responsiveness to ethacrynic acid and the use of salt - poor albumin should be considered .
A number of drugs , including ethacrynic acid , have been shown to displace warfarin from plasma protein ; a reduction in the usual anticoagulant dosage may be required in patients receiving both drugs .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the risk of gastric hemorrhage associated with corticosteroid treatment .
LABORATORY TESTS Frequent serum electrolyte , CO2 and BUN determinations should be performed early in therapy and periodically thereafter during active diuresis .
Any electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected or the drug temporarily withdrawn .
Increases in blood glucose and alterations in glucose tolerance tests have been observed in patients receiving ethacrynic acid .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Read circulars for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy .
Ethacrynic acid may increase the ototoxic potential of other drugs such as aminoglycoside and some cephalosporin antibiotics .
Their concurrent use should be avoided .
A number of drugs , including ethacrynic acid , have been shown to displace warfarin from plasma protein ; a reduction in the usual anticoagulant dosage may be required in patients receiving both drugs .
In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when ethacrynic acid and non - steroidal antiinflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect in a 79 - week oral chronic toxicity study in rats at doses up to 45 times the human dose .
Ethacrynic acid had no effect on fertility in a two - litter study in rats or a two - generation study in mice at 10 times the human dose .
PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in the mouse and rabbit at doses up to 50 times the human dose showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to ethacrynic acid .
In a two - litter study in the dog and rat , oral doses of 5 or 20 mg / kg / day ( 2 ½ or 10 times the human dose ) , respectively , did not interfere with pregnancy or with growth and development of the pups .
Although there was reduction in the mean body weights of the fetuses in a teratogenic study in the rat at a dose level of 100 mg / kg ( 50 times the human dose ) , there was no effect on mortality or postnatal development .
Functional and morphologic abnormalities were not observed .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Since animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , ethacrynic acid should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ethacrynic acid , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
PEDIATRIC USE There are no well - controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients .
The information on oral dosing in pediatric patients , other than infants , is supported by evidence from empiric use in this age group .
For information on oral use in pediatric patients , other than infants , seeINDICATIONS AND USAGEandDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Safety and effectiveness of oral in infants have not been established ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of intravenous use in pediatric patients have not been established ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Intravenous Use ) .
GERIATRIC USE Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of ethacrynic acid / ethacrynate sodium , approximately 224 patients ( 21 % ) were 65 to 74 years of age , while approximately 100 patients ( 9 % ) were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
( SeeWARNINGS . )
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Anorexia , malaise , abdominal discomfort or pain , dysphagia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea have occurred .
These are more frequent with large doses or after one to three months of continuous therapy .
A few patients have had sudden onset of profuse , watery diarrhea .
Discontinue Ethacrynic Acid Tablets USP , if diarrhea is severe and do not give it again .
Gastrointestinal bleeding has occurred in some patients .
Rarely , acute pancreatitis has been reported .
Metabolic Reversible hyperuricemia and acute gout have been reported .
Acute symptomatic hypoglycemia with convulsions occurred in two uremic patients who received doses above those recommended .
Hyperglycemia has been reported .
Rarely , jaundice and abnormal liver function tests have been reported in seriously ill patients receiving multiple drug therapy , including ethacrynic acid .
Hematologic Agranulocytosis or severe neutropenia has been reported in a few critically ill patients also receiving agents known to produce this effect .
Thrombocytopenia has been reported rarely .
Henoch - Schönlein purpura has been reported rarely in patients with rheumatic heart disease receiving multiple drug therapy , including ethacrynic acid .
Special Senses ( seeWARNINGS ) Deafness , tinnitus and vertigo with a sense of fullness in the ears , and blurred vision have occurred .
Central Nervous System Headache , fatigue , apprehension , confusion .
Miscellaneous Skin rash , fever , chills , hematuria .
Ethacrynate sodium occasionally has caused local irritation and pain after intravenous use .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TruPharma , LLC at 1 - 877 - 541 - 5504 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage may lead to excessive diuresis with electrolyte depletion and dehydration .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Emesis should be induced or gastric lavage performed .
Correct dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , hepatic coma , and hypotension by established procedures .
If required , give oxygen or artificial respiration for respiratory impairment .
In the mouse , the oral LD50 of ethacrynic acid is 627 mg / kg and the intravenous LD50 of ethacrynate sodium is 175 mg / kg .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be regulated carefully to prevent a more rapid or substantial loss of fluid or electrolyte than is indicated or necessary .
The magnitude of diuresis and natriuresis is largely dependent on the degree of fluid accumulation present in the patient .
Similarly , the extent of potassium excretion is determined in large measure by the presence and magnitude of aldosteronism .
Insufficient pediatric experience precludes recommendation for this age group .
Oral Use Ethacrynic acid is available for oral use as 25 mg tablets .
Dosage To Initiate Diuresis In Adults The smallest dose required to produce gradual weight loss ( about 1 to 2 pounds per day ) is recommended .
Onset of diuresis usually occurs at 50 to 100 mg for adults .
After diuresis has been achieved , the minimally effective dose ( usually from 50 to 200 mg daily ) may be given on a continuous or intermittent dosage schedule .
Dosage adjustments are usually in 25 to 50 mg increments to avoid derangement of water and electrolyte excretion .
The patient should be weighed under standard conditions before and during the institution of diuretic therapy with this compound .
Small alterations in dose should effectively prevent a massive diuretic response .
The following schedule may be helpful in determining the smallest effective dose .
Day 1 — 50 mg once daily after a meal Day 2 — 50 mg twice daily after meals , if necessary Day 3 — 100 mg in the morning and 50 to 100 mg following the afternoon or evening meal , depending upon response to the morning dose .
A few patients may require initial and maintenance doses as high as 200 mg twice daily .
These higher doses , which should be achieved gradually , are most often required in patients with severe , refractory edema .
In Pediatric Patients ( excluding infants , seeCONTRAINDICATIONS ) : The initial dose should be 25 mg .
Careful stepwise increments in dosage of 25 mg should be made to achieve effective maintenance .
Maintenance Therapy It is usually possible to reduce the dosage and frequency of administration once dry weight has been achieved .
Ethacrynic Acid may be given intermittently after an effective diuresis is obtained with the regimen outlined above .
Dosage may be on an alternate daily schedule or more prolonged periods of diuretic therapy may be interspersed with rest periods .
Such an intermittent dosage schedule allows time for correction of any electrolyte imbalance and may provide a more efficient diuretic response .
The chloruretic effect of this agent may give rise to retention of bicarbonate and a metabolic alkalosis .
This may be corrected by giving chloride ( ammonium chloride or arginine chloride ) .
Ammonium chloride should not be given to cirrhotic patients .
Ethacrynic acid has additive effects when used with other diuretics .
For example , a patient who is on maintenance dosage of an oral diuretic may require additional intermittent diuretic therapy , such as an organomercurial , for the maintenance of basal weight .
The intermittent use of ethacrynic acid orally may eliminate the need for injections of organomercurials .
Small doses of ethacrynic acid may be added to existing diuretic regimens to maintain basal weight .
This drug may potentiate the action of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , with augmentation of natriuresis and kaliuresis .
Therefore , when adding ethacrynic acid , the initial dose and changes of dose should be in 25 mg increments , to avoid electrolyte depletion .
Rarely , patients who failed to respond to ethacrynic acid have responded to older established agents .
While many patients do not require supplemental potassium , the use of potassium chloride or potassium - sparing agents , or both , during treatment with ethacrynic acid is advisable , especially in cirrhotic or nephrotic patients and in patients receiving digitalis .
Salt liberalization usually prevents the development of hyponatremia and hypochloremia .
During treatment with ethacrynic acid , salt may be liberalized to a greater extent than with other diuretics .
Cirrhotic patients , however , usually require at least moderate salt restriction concomitant with diuretic therapy .
Intravenous Use Ethacrynate sodium is for intravenous use when oral intake is impractical or in urgent conditions , such as acute pulmonary edema .
HOW SUPPLIED Ethacrynic Acid Tablets USP , 25 mg , are white to off white capsule shaped , scored tablets debossed with " AE " on left side and “ 25 ” on right side of the score line and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 52817 - 367 - 60 in bottles of 60 Tablets NDC 52817 - 367 - 90 in bottles of 100 Tablets Storage Store in a tightly closed container at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by , Agnitio Inc . , N 800 County Road CB , Appleton , WI 54914 , USA .
Distributed By : TruPharma , LLC Tampa , FL 33609 Issued : September 2019 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
