FOR FEVERSTM INFANT FEVER + PAIN RELIEVERAcetaminophen Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Acetaminophen 160 mg Purpose Pain reliever / Fever reducer Uses Temporarily : • reduces fever • relieves minor aches and pains which may be associated with the common cold , flu , headache , sore throat or toothache .
Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes ▪ more than 5 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount ▪ with other drugs containing acetaminophen .
Sore Throat Warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , or is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Allergy Alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : ▪ skin reddening ▪ blisters ▪ rash .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • with any other products containing acetaminophen ( prescription or non - prescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• if your child is allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has liver disease .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin .
When using this product do not exceed recommended dose ( see overdose warning ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • new symptoms occur • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days • redness or swelling is present .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose Warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) can cause serious liver damage .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions This product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use .
• Shake well before using • Find the right dose on the chart on the chart below .
If possible , use weight to determine dose ; otherwise , use age .
• Only use the enclosed AccuSafe ® syringe .
Do not use any other syringe , dropper , spoon or dosing device when giving this medicine to your child .
• Remove cap , insert syringe to flow restrictor and invert bottle • Pull back syringe until filled to the prescribed level and slowly dispense the liquid into your child ’ s mouth ( towards the inner cheek ) • If needed , repeat dose every 4 hours while symptoms last • Do not give more than 5 times in any 24 - hour period ( see overdose warning ) • Do not give more than 5 days unless directed by a doctor • Replace cap tightly to maintain child resistance mL = milliliter Weight ( lbs ) Age ( yrs ) Dose ( mL ) Under 24 under 2 Ask a doctor 24 - 35 2 - 3 5 mL Other information • Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • AccuSafe ® Oral dosing device enclosed • Check expiration date on bottle or box before using .
Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , carboxymethylcellulose , glycerin , natural grape flavor , microcrystalline cellulose , sucrose , sodium benzoate , water , xanthan gum FOR DIAPER RASH BOUDREAUX ’ S BUTT PASTE ® Diaper Rash Ointment Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Zinc oxide , 16 % ...................................................
Skin protectant Uses • Helps treat and prevent diaper rash • Protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after 7 days Keep out of the reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion If swallowed , seek medical help or call Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately Directions • Change wet and soiled diaper immediately • Cleanse the diaper area and allow to dry • Apply ointment liberally and as often as necessary with each diaper change and especially when exposed to wet diapers for a prolonged period of time , such as bedtime Other information • Store at room temperature 20 ° - 27 ° C ( 68 ° - 80 ° F ) • Remove seal from jar before use • Use with infants , children and adults • Will stain clothing and fabric Inactive ingredients castor oil , mineral oil , paraffin , peruvian balsam , white petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 855 - 785 - 2888 www . buttpaste . com FOR TUMMYSTM GAS RELIEF DROPSSimethicone / Antigas Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 0 . 3 mL ) Simethicone Emulsion USP 66 . 7 mg / Simethicone 20 mg Purpose Antigas Uses Relieves discomfort of infant gas frequently caused by excessive swallowing of air or certain formulas or food Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
Directions ■ shake well before using ■ only use enclosed syringe ; fill to prescribed level and dispense liquid slowly into child ’ s mouth , toward inner cheek ■ all dosages may be repeated as needed , after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a physician .
Do not exceed 12 doses per day .
■ dosage can also be mixed with 1 oz .
of cool water , infant formula or other suitable liquids ■ for best results , clean syringe after each use and replace original cap If possible , use weight to determine dose ; otherwise use age .
mL = milliliters Age ( yrs ) Weight ( lbs ) Dose Newborns & Infants under 2 years under 24 0 . 3 mL Children 2 years and over 24 and over 0 . 6 mL Other information ■ do not freeze ■ store at room temperature 20 ˚ - 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ - 77 ˚ F ) ■ See bottle or box for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients carmellose sodium , citric acid , microcrystalline cellulose , natural strawberry flavor , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sucralose , xanthan gum FOR TUMMYSTM GRIPE WATER Supplement Facts Serving Size : 5 mL Servings per Container : about 12 Amount per Serving % Daily Value Zingiber officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extract 5 mg † Foeniculum vulgare ( Fennel ) Seed Extract 4 mg † † Daily Value not established Other ingredients purified water , agave , glycerin , natural ginger flavor , potassium sorbate , citric acid , xanthan gum Suggested Use Age Dose 2 to 4 weeks 2 . 5 mL 1 to 6 months 5 mL 6 months and older 10 mL Adults 30 mL SHAKE WELL .
May be taken directly using the dispenser included .
May be given up to six times in a 24 hour period .
If necessary to repeat dosage , wait a minimum of 30 minutes .
Do not use if safety seal is broken or missing .
Keep out of reach of children .
In some infants , a rare allergic reaction may occur .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not use if ▪ child has a history of kidney failure or renal problems ▪ child is allergic to any of the ingredients in this product Always consult your health care provider before giving this or any supplement to an infant .
▪ Store at room temperature .
FOR NOSESTM SALINE SPRAY + DROPS Uses – Helps loosen mucus secretions to aid aspiration and removal from nose and sinuses , allowing for easier breathing .
For infants this can be assisted with the use of our specially designed “ Soft Tip ” Nasal Aspirator .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
▪ The use of this dispenser by more than one person may spread infection .
▪ Wipe nozzle clean after each use .
Directions ( For nasal use only ) ▪ Infants : 2 to 6 drops in each nostril as often as needed or as directed by your doctor .
▪ Children : 2 to 6 sprays or drops into each nostril as often as needed or as directed by a doctor .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See bottle for lot and expiration date .
Ingredients : water , sodium chloride , glycerin , sodium benzoate , benzoic acid PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Little Remedies ® New Baby Essentials Kit INFANT FEVER / PAIN RELIEVER ACETAMINOPHEN / FEVER / PAIN RELIEVER 2 FL OZ ( 59 mL ) Syringe Included GAS DROPS SIMETHICONE / ANTIGAS 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) Syringe Included DIAPER RASH OINTMENT ZINC OXIDE / SKIN PROTECTANT 2 OZ ( 57 g ) SALINE SPRAY + DROPS 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) GRIPE WATER GINGER / FENNEL SUPPLEMENT 2 FL OZ ( 59 mL ) Syringe Included Nasal Aspirator [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
