Active ingredient Psyllium husk 3 . 4 g ( per each rounded teaspoon = 7 g ) Purpose Bulk - forming laxative Use effective in treating occasional constipation and restoring regularity Warnings Allergy alert : This product may cause an allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium .
Safety Warning DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS TORN OR MISSING Directions Adults 12 Years and older ( up to 3 times daily ) : Put 1 rounded TEASPOON into an empty glass .
Mix this product with at least 8 oz ( a full glass ) of water .
Stir briskly to mix the fiber into the water fully and drink promptly .
Taking without enough water may cause choking .
Do not take this product if you have difficulty following .
As bulk - forming fibers such as NuSyllium Ultra may affect how medicines work , take this product at least 2 hours before or after taking your medicine , You can take NuSyllium Ultra at any time of the day .
Children under 12 years : Consult a doctor before use .
Stop using a NuSyllium and see a doctor if constipation lasts more than a week or if rectal bleeding occurs as these may be signs of a serious condition .
FIRST - TIME USERS Start with one serving per day and then adjust your dose upwards as needed .
Adding fiber to your diet may cause changes in your bowel habits or minor bloating .
These are normal reactions as your body adjusts to the increase fiber in your diet .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Other information Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol that include 7 grams of soluble fiber per day from fiber such as NuSyllium may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering cholesterol .
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure or prevent any disease .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Inactive ingredients Natural Citric Acid , Natural Flavors , Natural Stevia Extract , Organic Glycerin .
Principal Display Panel NDC 68163 - 575 - 42 NuSyllium Ultra Sugar Free Organic Fiber 7 GRAMS OF FIBER PER TEASPOON DOSE Perfect Grind ™ For Easy Mixing • • Fiber laxative for regularity • • Natural Orange Flavor NO ARTIFICIAL INGREDIENTS 42 DOSES WEIGHT 10 . 7 OZ ( 300 GRAMS ) Fill controlled by weight , not volume * Compared to leading NuSyllium product Folks are Taking about the Benefits of NuSyllium Ultra Organic Natural Fiber !
• • You can use NuSyllium Ultra to feel less hungry between meals .
• • Maintain healthy blood sugar levels by using NuSyllium Ultra as part of your sugar free diet * .
Talk to your doctor before use if you are taking medication to control your blood sugar levels .
• • Organic NuSyllium is a great choice for promoting and maintain digestive health .
You can use NuSyllium Ultra for occasional constipation and to help promote and maintain regularity .
• • Did you know that one dose of NuSyllium Ultra contains 5 gm of soluble fiber ?
You can use it for lowering cholesterol and promoting heart health * .
• • Talk to your doctor who will have good advice for you to use NuSyllium Ultra as part of your cholesterol – lowering program .
No Artificial Flavors , Peanut - free No Artificial Colors , Tea Nut - free GMO - free , Preservative - free Gluten - free , Zero Trans Fat Diary - free , No animal testing Made in the U . S . A . with domestic and foreign components .
Distributed by : Lifelab Health LLC 6574 N . State Road # 7 361 Coconut Creek , FL 33073 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
