ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : LEVOMENTHOL 0 . 30 % , SALICYLIC ACID 0 . 25 % , DEXPANTHENOL 0 . 20 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Water , Houttuynia Cordata Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Acorus Calamus Root Extract , Alcohol , Centella Asiatica Extract , Poly - sorbate 20 , Polyoxyethylene Hydrogenated Castor oil , Phenoxyethanol , L - Menthol , Sodium Citrate , Salicylic Acid , Dexpanthenol , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , Allantoin , Niacinamide , Hydrolyzed Keratin , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Hydrolyzed Silk , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Coix Lacryma - Jobi Ma - yuen Seed Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Hyaluronic Acid , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Disodium EDTA PURPOSE Purpose : Anti hair loss WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only 1 .
Be discontinued immediately the use of this product in the following cases , consult your doctor or pharmacist , at the time of consultation , as far as possible : If rash , erythema , itching , swelling , and the like are displayed 2 .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
3 .
People who have hypersensitivity to salicylic acid , diabetes , blood circulation disorder , kidney failure , infectious disease , redness , menstruation , pregnancy or who are pregnant may become hypersensitive to skin or body after use ( Edema , inflammation , etc . ) may occur and current symptoms may worsen , so avoid using .
4 .
If you have any allergic symptoms , you should consult your doctor or pharmacist before use .
5 .
Do not use for children under the age of 3 .
6 .
Keep out of reach of babies and children - Do not store near high heat or flame - Do not keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
- Do not put in other containers for prevent abuse and keep quality KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of babies and children Uses Uses : Helps prevent hair loss Directions Directions : Whenever necessary , apply scalp tonic sheet to the scalp properly , then rub thoroughly using your fingertips to massage .
QUESTIONS Questions : + 82 - 2 - 983 - 1257 Homepage : http : / / www . drpelo . co . kr PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
