Rx only DESCRIPTION Triamcinolone Acetonide Dental Paste USP , 0 . 1 % , contains the corticosteroid triamcinolone acetonide in an adhesive vehicle suitable for application to oral tissues .
Triamcinolone acetonide is designated chemically as 9 - fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone .
The structural formula of triamcinolone acetonide is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste contains 1 mg triamcinolone acetonide in an emollient dental paste containing carboxymethylcellulose sodium , gelatin , and pectin in a plasticized hydrocarbon gel ( a polyethylene and mineral oil gel base ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , triamcinolone acetonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of absorption through the oral mucosa is determined by multiple factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the mucosal barrier , the duration of therapy , and the presence of inflammation and / or other disease processes .
Once absorbed through the mucous membranes , the disposition of corticosteroids is similar to that of systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to the plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys ; some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Triamcinolone Acetonide Dental Paste USP , 0 . 1 % is indicated for adjunctive treatment and for the temporary relief of symptoms associated with oral inflammatory lesions and ulcerative lesions resulting from trauma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Triamcinolone acetonide dental paste is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation ; it is also contraindicated in the presence of fungal , viral , or bacterial infections of the mouth or throat .
PRECAUTIONS General Triamcinolone acetonide dental paste may cause local adverse reactions .
If irritation develops , triamcinolone acetonide dental paste should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact sensitization with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant mucosal infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
If significant regeneration or repair of oral tissues has not occurred in seven days , additional investigation into the etiology of the oral lesion is advised .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , glucosuria , and other adverse effects known to occur with parenterally - administered steroid preparations ; therefore , it may be advisable to periodically evaluate patients on prolonged therapy with corticosteroid - containing dental pastes for evidence of HPA axis suppression ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug or to reduce the frequency of application .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of therapy .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician or dentist .
It is for oral use only ; it is not intended for ophthalmic or dermatological use .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
Patients should report any signs of adverse reactions .
• 4 .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician or dentist .
Laboratory Tests A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate triamcinolone acetonide for potential to induce carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic effects Triamcinolone acetonide has been shown to induce teratogenic effects in several species .
In mice and rabbits , triamcinolone acetonide induced an increased incidence of cleft palate at dosages of approximately 120 µg / kg / day and 24 µg / kg / day , respectively ( approximately 12 times and 10 times the amount in a typical daily human dose of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste when compared following normalization of the data on the basis of body surface area estimates , respectively ) .
In monkeys , triamcinolone acetonide induced cranial skeletal malformations at the lowest dosage studied ( 500 µg / kg / day ) , which was approximately 200 times the amount in a typical daily human dose of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste when compared following normalization of the data on the basis of body surface area estimates .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , a retrospective analysis of birth defects among children born to mothers that used drugs of the same class as triamcinolone acetonide dental paste ( corticosteroids ) during pregnancy found an approximately 3 times increased incidence of cleft palate .
Triamcinolone acetonide dental paste should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether oral application of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when corticosteroid - containing dental pastes are prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste in children is unknown .
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s Syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Administration of corticosteroid - containing dental pastes to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of triamcinolone acetonide dental paste did not include sufficient numbers of subjects age 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions may occur with corticosteroid - containing dental pastes : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , blistering or peeling not present prior to therapy , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the oral mucosa , secondary infection , and atrophy of the oral mucosa .
Also , see PRECAUTIONS for potential effects of systemic absorption .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Press a small dab ( about 1 / 4 inch ) to the lesion until a thin film develops .
A larger quantity may be required for coverage of some lesions .
For optimal results use only enough to coat the lesion with a thin film .
Do not rub in .
Attempting to spread this preparation may result in granular , gritty sensation and cause it to crumble .
After application , however , a smooth , slippery film develops .
The preparation should be applied at bedtime to permit steroid contact with the lesion throughout the night .
Depending on the severity of symptoms , it may be necessary to apply the preparation two or three times a day , preferably after meals .
If significant repair or regeneration has not occurred in seven days , further investigation is advisable .
HOW SUPPLIED Triamcinolone Acetonide Dental Paste USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied in tubes containing 5 g of dental paste ( NDC 68788 - 7814 - 5 ) Storage Keep tightly closed .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : September , 2014 PK - 5605 - 2 364 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 g Tube Carton NDC 68788 - 7814 - 5 5 g Triamcinolone Acetonide Dental Paste USP , 0 . 1 % FOR TOPICAL USE IN ADJUNCTIVE TREATMENT OF ORAL LESIONS Rx only TARO Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
