DESCRIPTION ALOCRIL ® ( nedocromil sodium ophthalmic solution ) 2 % is a clear , yellow , sterile solution for topical ophthalmic use .
Nedocromil sodium is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 4 H - Pyrano [ 3 , 2 - g ] quinoline - 2 , 8 - dicarboxylic acid , 9 - ethyl - 6 , 9 - dihydro - 4 , 6 - dioxo - 10 - propyl - , disodium salt .
Each mL contains : Active : Nedocromil sodium 20 mg / mL ( 2 % ) ; Preservative : Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ; Inactives : Edetate disodium 0 . 05 % , purified water , and sodium chloride 0 . 5 % .
It has a pH range of 4 . 0 to 5 . 5 and an osmolality range of 270 to 330 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nedocromil sodium is a mast cell stabilizer .
Nedocromil sodium inhibits the release of mediators from cells involved in hypersensitivity reactions .
Decreased chemotaxis and decreased activation of eosinophils have also been demonstrated .
In vitro studies with adult human bronchoalveolar cells showed that nedocromil sodium inhibits histamine release from a population of mast cells having been defined as belonging to the mucosal sub type and inhibits beta - glucuronidase release from macrophages .
Pharmacokinetics and Bioavailability Nedocromil sodium exhibits low systemic absorption .
When administered as a 2 % ophthalmic solution in adult human volunteers , less than 4 % of the total dose was systemically absorbed following multiple dosing .
Absorption is mainly through the nasolacrimal duct rather than through the conjunctiva .
It is not metabolized and is eliminated primarily unchanged in urine ( 70 % ) and feces ( 30 % ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in those patients who have shown hypersensitivity to nedocromil sodium or to any of the other ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients Patients should be advised to follow the patient instructions listed on the Information for Patients sheet .
Users of contact lenses should refrain from wearing lenses while exhibiting the signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis .
Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , surrounding structures , fingers , or any other surface in order to avoid contamination of the solution by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility A two - year inhalation carcinogenicity study of nedocromil sodium at a dose of 24 mg / kg / day ( approximately 400 times the maximum recommended human daily ocular dose on a mg / kg basis ) in Wistar rats showed no carcinogenic potential .
Nedocromil sodium showed no mutagenic potential in the Ames Salmonella / microsome plate assay , mitotic gene conversion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , mouse lymphoma forward mutation and mouse micronucleus assays .
Reproduction and fertility studies in mice and rats showed no effects on male and female fertility at a subcutaneous dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( more than 1600 times the maximum recommended human daily ocular dose ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies performed in mice , rats and rabbits using a subcutaneous dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( more than 1600 times the maximum human daily ocular dose on a mg / kg basis ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity or harm to the fetus due to nedocromil sodium .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers After intravenous administration to lactating rats , nedocromil was excreted in milk .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 3 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse experience was headache ( ~ 40 % ) .
Ocular burning , irritation and stinging , unpleasant taste , and nasal congestion have been reported to occur in 10 – 30 % of patients .
Other events occurring between 1 – 10 % included asthma , conjunctivitis , eye redness , photophobia , and rhinitis .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying ocular disease being studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one or two drops in each eye twice a day .
ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution should be used at regular intervals .
Treatment should be continued throughout the period of exposure ( i . e . , until the pollen season is over or until exposure to the offending allergen is terminated ) , even when symptoms are absent .
HOW SUPPLIED ALOCRIL ® ( nedocromil sodium ophthalmic solution ) 2 % is supplied sterile in opaque white LDPE plastic bottles with dropper tips and white high impact polystyrene ( HIPS ) caps as follows : 5 mL in 10 mL bottle NDC 0023 - 8842 - 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage : Store at 2º – 25º C ( 36º – 77º F ) .
Rx only Revised : 06 / 2018 Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] v1 . 0USPI8842 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Information for the Patient ALOCRIL ® ( nedocromil sodium ophthalmic solution ) 2 % sterile It is important to use ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution regularly , as directed by your physician .
1 .
Thoroughly wash your hands .
2 .
Remove safety seal ( Figure 1 ) .
3 .
Remove cap ( Figure 2 ) .
4 .
Sit or stand comfortably , with your head tilted back ( Figure 3 ) .
5 .
Open eyes , look up , and draw the lower lid of your eye down gently with your index finger ( Figure 4 ) .
6 .
Hold the ALOCRIL ® bottle upside down .
Place tip as close as possible to the lower eyelid without touching the tip to the eye , and gently squeeze out the prescribed number of drops ( Figure 5 ) .
7 .
Do not touch the eye or eyelid with the bottle tip .
8 .
Blink a few times to make sure the eye is covered with the solution .
9 .
Close your eye and remove any excess solution with a clean tissue .
10 .
Repeat process in the other eye .
SPECIAL TIPS 1 .
Avoid placing ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution directly on the cornea ( the area just over the pupil ) , because it is especially sensitive .
You will find the administration of eye drops more comfortable if you place the drops just inside the lower eyelid as shown in Figure 5 on the previous page .
2 .
To avoid contamination of the solution , do not touch dropper tip to the eye , fingers , or any other surface .
Replace bottle cap after use .
It is recommended that any remaining contents be discarded after treatment period prescribed by your physician .
3 .
Store at 2º – 25º C ( 36º – 77º F ) .
Store in original carton .
4 .
Keep bottle tightly closed and out of the reach of children .
5 .
Do not use with any other ocular medication unless directed by your physician .
Do not wear contact lenses during treatment with ALOCRIL ® ophthalmic solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 Distributed by : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2018 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] v1 . 0PPI8842 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0023 - 8842 - 05 ALOCRIL ® ( nedocromil sodium ophthalmic solution ) 2 % sterile For topical application in the eye 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
