Patient Information Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including clindamycin hydrochloride , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin hydrochloride is pre scribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effec tiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin hydrochloride or other antibacte rial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible . Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro .
Because of possible clinical significance , these two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been per formed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic poten tial .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the highest rec ommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 and 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) or subcuta neous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 and 0 . 7 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) revealed no evi dence of teratogenicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduc tion studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk in the range of 0 . 7 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL .
Pediatric Use When clindamycin hydrochloride is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) , appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include suffi cient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most anti biotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
Adverse Reactions ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , pseudomembranous colitis , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
The onset of pseudomembranous coli tis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Generalized mild to moder ate morbilliform - like ( maculopapular ) skin rashes are the most frequently reported adverse reactions .
Vesiculobullous rashes , as well as urticaria , have been observed during drug therapy .
Rare instances of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and a few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunc tion as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Musculoskeletal : Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued .
Adults Serious infections — 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours .
More severe infections — 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours .
Pediatric Patients Serious infections — 8 to 16 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 8 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
More severe infections — 16 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 to 10 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
To avoid the possibility of esophageal irritation , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be taken with a full glass of water .
Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usu ally treated with clindamycin injection .
However , in clinically appropriate circum stances , the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treat ment should continue for at least 10 days .
Label Display NDC : 51655 - 0530 - 24 CLINDAMYCIN HCL 300 MG 30 Capsules Lot : Exp : Rx only Store at 20 C to 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Keep out of reach of children .
Dosage : See package insert Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Manufacture Address : Hyderabad - 500 - 072 , India Manufacture NDC : 65862 - 186 - 01 Mfg . Lot : CU3014003A Distributed by Northwind Pharmaceuticals Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
