FACT SHEET FOR HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS EMERGENCY USE AUTHORIZATION ( EUA ) OF PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION The U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has issued an Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) to permit the emergency use of the unapproved product , Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion in 100 mL to maintain sedation via continuous infusion in patients greater than 16 years old who require mechanical ventilation in an intensive care unit ( ICU ) setting .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is not an FDA - approved drug in the United States .
However , FDA has issued an EUA permitting the emergency use of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion during the COVID - 19 pandemic and related shortage of propofol drug product .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is authorized only for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of the emergency use under Section 564 ( b ) ( 1 ) of the Act , 21 U . S . C . § 360 bbb - 3 - ( b ) ( 1 ) , unless the authorization is terminated or revoked sooner .
The scope of the EUA is limited as follows : • Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will be used only to maintain sedation via continuous infusion in patients greater than 16 years old who require mechanical ventilation .
• Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will be administered only by a licensed healthcare provider in an ICU setting .
• Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will NOT be administered to pregnant women , unless there are no FDA - approved products available to maintain sedation for these patients should they require mechanical ventilation in an ICU setting .
• Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will be used only in accordance with the dosing regimens as detailed in the authorized Fact Sheets .
Product Description Consistent with the EUA , B . Braun Melsungen AG , Germany , will offer the following presentations of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion .
Product Name And Description MCT / LCT Concentration Source / Type of Oil Size National Drug Code ( NDC ) Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion 1 , 000 mg in 100 mL ( propofol 10 mg per mL ) Medium Chain Triglycerides ( MCT ) 50 mg / mL Long Chain Triglycerides ( LCT ) 50 mg / mL Soybean oil , refined ; medium - chain triglycerides 100 mL NDC 0264 - 4850 - 01 Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is approved in Europe as well as in many other international countries .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will be manufactured by B . Braun facilities in Germany as Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion supplied in all other countries worldwide .
The B . Braun ’ s manufacturing sites are inspected regularly by German and other National Competent Authorities confirming the fulfillment of good manufacturing practices ( GMP ) and other current standards .
The manufacturing site in Melsungen , Germany was previously inspected by FDA .
Key Differences between FDA - approved Diprivan ( propofol ) Injectable Emulsion , USP Products and Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( Propofol ) injectable emulsion for infusion Diprivan ( propofol ) Injectable Emulsion , USP Propofol 1 , 000 mg per 100 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( propofol ) injectable emulsion for infusion 1 , 000 mg in 100 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) What does this mean to you as a healthcare professional ?
Composition Contains long - chain triglycerides ( LCT ) Contains a combination of medium - chain triglycerides ( MCT ) and long - chain triglycerides ( LCT ) Prolonged IV infusion of MCT to pregnant rabbits has been reported in the published literature to increase the RISK OF NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS .
Because it is not yet clear if there is differential risk for adverse developmental effects with Propofol - Lipuro 1 % compared to Diprivan ( propofol ) , Propofol - Lipuro 1 % SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PREGNANT WOMEN unless there are no FDA - approved products available to maintain sedation in these patients who require mechanical ventilation in an ICU setting .
Indication General anesthesia , procedural sedation , ICU sedation ICU sedation ONLY Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is only to maintain sedation via continuous infusion in patients greater than 16 years old who require mechanical ventilation in the ICU setting .
Patient Population Greater than 3 years old ( procedural sedation and general anesthesia ) Greater than 16 years old ( ICU sedation ) Greater than 16 years old ( ICU sedation ) Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is only indicated to maintain sedation via continuous infusion for patients greater than 16 years old who require mechanical ventilation in the ICU setting . Propofol - Lipuro 1 % should not be used in pregnant women unless there are no FDA - approved products available to maintain sedation for these patients who require mechanical ventilation in an ICU setting .
Dosing See package insert * Administration rates of 0 . 3 to 4 . 0 mg propofol / kg bodyweight / h have been demonstrated to provide adequate sedation Infusion rates greater than 4 . 0 mg propofol / kg bodyweight / h are not recommended due to risk of Propofol Infusion Syndrome .
The duration of administration must not exceed 7 days .
Method of Administration Bolus or infusion Infusion ONLY Propofol - Lipuro 1 % should be administered undiluted intravenously by continuous infusion .
DO NOT ADMINISTER PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % VIA BOLUS INJECTION . Containers should be shaken before use .
If two layers can be seen after shaking , the emulsion should not be used .
Do not admix with other medicinal products .
Co - administration of other medicinal products or fluids added to the Propofol - Lipuro 1 % infusion line must occur close to the cannula site using a Y - piece connector or a three - way valve .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion must not be administered via a microbiological filter .
Other Special Patient Populations See package insert * Caution should be taken when treating patients with mitochondrial disease , epilepsy , and disorders of fat metabolism .
Patients with mitochondrial disease may be susceptible to exacerbations of their disorder when undergoing ICU care .
Maintenance of normothermia , provision of carbohydrates and good hydration are recommended for such patients .
The early presentations of mitochondrial disease exacerbation and of the ‘ propofol infusion syndrome ’ may be similar . Although several studies have demonstrated efficacy in treating status epilepticus , administration of propofol in epileptic patients may also increase the risk of seizure .
Prior to administration of PropofolLipuro 1 % , antiepileptic medication ( s ) should be administered to patients with a history of medically managed seizures or when clinically indicated .
For these patients , as well as for ARDS / respiratory failure and tetanus patients , sedation maintenance dosages were generally higher than those for other critically ill patient populations .
Appropriate care should be applied in patients with disorders of fat metabolism and in other conditions where lipid emulsions must be used cautiously .
It is recommended that blood lipid levels should be monitored if propofol is administered to patients thought to be at particular risk of fat overload .
Administration of propofol should be adjusted appropriately if the monitoring indicates that fat is being inadequately cleared from the body .
If the patient is receiving other intravenous lipid concurrently , a reduction in quantity should be made in order to take account of the amount of lipid infused as part of the propofol formulation ; 1 . 0 mL of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion contains approximately 0 . 1 g of fat .
Drug interaction See package insert * Drug interaction with rifampicin , valproate Profound hypotension has been reported following anesthetic induction with propofol in patients treated with rifampicin . A need for lower propofol doses has been observed in patients taking valproate .
When used concomitantly , a dose reduction of propofol may be considered .
Presence of antimicrobial retardant Yes NO Propofol - Lipuro 1 % does NOT contain an antimicrobial retardant and supports growth of microorganisms . STRICT ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE MUST ALWAYS BE MAINTAINED DURING HANDLING .
Each vial of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is intended only for single administration for an individual patient .
Vials are not intended for multiple use .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % must be drawn up aseptically into a sterile syringe or an infusion set immediately after breaking the vial seal .
Administration must commence without delay .
Asepsis must be maintained for both Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion and the infusion equipment throughout the infusion period .
The unused portion of a vial should be discarded immediately after opening .
As with any propofol used in infusion , discard all product and infusion lines after 12 hours .
Contraindications See package insert * Propofol - Lipuro 1 % Emulsion should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to peanut or soy Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients : soybean oil , refined ; medium - chain triglycerides ; glycerol ; egg lecithin ; sodium oleate ; water for injections .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % contains soya - bean oil and should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to peanut or soy .
Bar code Unit of use barcode on individual vials No unit of use barcode The barcode on the imported product label may not register accurately with the U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the imported product information into their systems and confirm that the barcode , if scanned , provides correct information .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
* Refer to https : / / www . accessdata . fda . gov / drugsatfda _ docs / label / 2017 / 019627s066lbl . pdf for the Diprivan package insert .
Please refer to the package insert for the full prescribing information of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion .
For questions regarding Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion , please contact B . Braun Medical Inc . : Company Name : B . Braun Medical Inc .
Address : 861 Marcon Blvd , Allentown , PA 18109 Country : United States 24 - hour Telephone : + 1 833 - 425 - 1464 E - Mail : productqualityexcellence @ bbraunusa . com What is an EUA The United States FDA has made Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion available to treat patients in an ICU during the COVID - 19 pandemic under an emergency access mechanism called an Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) .
This EUA is supported by a Secretary of Health and Human Service ( HHS ) declaration that circumstances exist to justify the emergency use of drugs and biological products during the COVID - 19 pandemic .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion made available under an EUA has not undergone the same type of review as an FDA - approved product .
FDA may issue an EUA when certain criteria are met , which includes that there are no adequate , approved , available alternatives .
Based on the totality of scientific evidence available , it is reasonable to believe that Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion has met certain criteria for safety , performance , and labeling and may be effective to maintain sedation via continuous infusion in patients greater than 16 years old who require mechanical ventilation in an ICU setting .
This EUA for Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is in effect for the duration of the COVID - 19 declaration justifying emergency use of the product , unless terminated or revoked .
The EUA will end when the declaration is terminated or revoked or when there is a change in the approval status of the product such that an EUA is no longer needed .
This communication and product information is available on the B . Braun Medical Inc . website https : / / www . bbraunusa . com / en / company / newsroom / covid19 . html # as well as the FDA webpage which includes links to patient fact sheet .
Adverse Event Reporting Healthcare facilities and prescribing healthcare providers or their designee receiving Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion will track all medication errors associated with the use of and all serious adverse events that are considered potentially attributable to Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion .
Adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of this product must also be reported to the FDA using one of the following methods : • Complete and submit a MedWatch form online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm or • Complete and submit FDA Form 3500 ( health professional ) by fax ( 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 ) ( this form can be found via link above ) .
Call 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 for questions .
Submitted reports should state , “ Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion use for COVID - 19 under Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) ” at the beginning of the question “ Describe Event ” for further analysis .
For questions regarding Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) injectable emulsion for infusion for continuous infusion , please contact B . Braun Medical Inc . : Company Name : B . Braun Medical Inc . 24 - hour Telephone : + 1 833 - 425 - 1464 E - Mail : productqualityexcellence @ bbraunusa . com Comparison Table of FDA - approved Diprivan ( propofol ) Injectable Emulsion , USP 10 mg / mL and Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) injectable emulsion for infusion Product Name Diprivan ( propofol ) Injectable Emulsion , USP Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion Propofol concentration 10 mg / mL 10 mg / mL Product labels 100 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : The imported product labels include that Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is “ for injection or infusion ” .
However , Propofol - Lipuro 1 % is only authorized for use in the U . S . as “ for infusion ” .
Active Ingredient Propofol Propofol Excipients Soybean oil Glycerol Egg phospholipids Edetate disodium Sodium hydroxide Soybean oil , refined Medium - chain triglycerides Egg phospholipids for injection Glycerol Sodium oleate Water for injection Fill Volume 20 mL 50 mL 100 mL 100 mL Duration Drug holiday after 5 days to replace urine zinc losses Do not administer for more than 7 days .
Dilution Dilution to 2 mg / mL with 5 % Dextrose Injection only Do Not Dilute .
Bolus Bolus injection permitted Infusion ONLY Description Single Dose Vial for Single Patient Use Only Single Dose Vial for Single Patient Use Only Company Fresenius Kabi USA B . Braun Melsungen AG Germany Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( propofol ) injectable emulsion for infusion 1 , 000 mg in 100 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( propofol ) injectable emulsion for infusion 1 , 000 mg in 100 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) contains the same active ingredient , strength , and concentration as Diprivan ® ( propofol ) injectable emulsion for infusion USP 1 , 000 mg per 100 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) .
• Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is not FDA - approved • Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is approved in Europe , as well as many other international countries outside of the United States .
• Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion has been authorized by FDA for use under an Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) • Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is authorized only for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of the emergency use under Section 564 ( b ) ( 1 ) of the Act , 21 U . S . C . § 360 bbb - 3 - ( b ) ( 1 ) , unless the authorization is terminated or revoked sooner [ MULTIMEDIA ] To place an order , contact your local sales representative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fact Sheet for Patients , Parents , And Caregivers Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) of PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % ( propofol ) INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION During CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 ( COVID - 19 ) Pandemic This fact sheet contains information to help you understand the risks and benefits of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) injectable emulsion for infusion that you have received or may receive .
There is currently a shortage of U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) - approved propofol products that maintain sedation for patients who are on a machine that helps with breathing ( ventilator ) due to the COVID - 19 pandemic .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is not an FDA - approved medicine in the United States .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion contains the same active ingredient , propofol , at the same strength as Diprivan Injectable Emulsion and other propofol products approved in the United States .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is currently approved in Europe and other international countries .
Read this Fact Sheet for information about Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have questions .
It is your choice to take Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion or stop it at any time .
What is COVID - 19 ?
COVID - 19 is caused by a virus called a coronavirus .
This type of coronavirus has not been seen before .
This new coronavirus was first found in people in December 2019 .
You can get COVID - 19 through contact with another person who has the virus .
COVID - 19 illnesses have ranged from very mild ( including some with no reported symptoms ) to severe , including illness resulting in death .
While information so far suggests that most COVID - 19 illness is mild , serious illness can happen and may cause some of your other medical conditions to become worse .
Older people and people of all ages with severe , long lasting ( chronic ) medical conditions like heart disease , lung disease , and diabetes , for example , seem to be at higher risk of being hospitalized for COVID - 19 .
The symptoms of COVID - 19 are fever , cough and shortness of breath , which may appear 2 to 14 days after exposure .
Serious illness including breathing problems can occur and may cause your other medical conditions to become worse .
What is PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION ?
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion belongs to a group of medicines called sedatives / hypnotics .
It will be used to help calm ( sedate ) you if you need a tube inserted ( intubation ) and a machine to help you breathe ( ventilator ) while in an ICU .
What do I need to know before I receive PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION ?
Who should not receive Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion ?
Do not receive Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion if : • You have received propofol before and have had an allergic reaction to it • You are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to soy , peanut , or any of the other ingredients of this medicine • You are 16 years of age or younger What should I tell my healthcare provider before I receive Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion ?
Please tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you have : • Serious head injuries • Mitochondrial disease • A disorder in which your body does not handle fat properly or any other health problems in which giving you fat emulsions may cause a health problem • Dehydration ( your blood volume is too low , or hypovolemia ) • Heart , kidney , or liver problems • High pressure within your brain • Problems with your breathing • Epilepsy • Are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• Are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed • Are taking any medicines , including prescription , overthecounter , vitamins , or herbal products Your healthcare provider will consider that other medicines with an inhibiting effect on the central nervous system may increase the effects of propofol when given together with propofol .
Special care will be taken if you are also receiving an antibiotic containing rifampicin or an anti - seizure medication containing valproate .
How will I receive PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION ?
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is given to you through a vein ( IV ) under the direct supervision of an anesthesiologist or intensive care doctor who will closely control the amount of Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion given to you .
Dosage The dose you are given will vary depending on your age , body weight , and physical condition .
The doctor will give the correct dose to achieve the required level of sedation , by carefully watching your responses and vital signs ( pulse , blood pressure , breathing , etc ) .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion will be given by infusion and only for a maximum of 7 days .
What are the important possible side effects of PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION ?
The most common side effects are : • Pain at the injection site • Drop in blood pressure • Changes in heart rate • Changes in breathing , coughing , and hiccups • Headache , nausea , or vomiting during recovery from propofol sedation Less common side effects are : • Blood clots in veins or inflammation of veins at the injection site • Seizures • Fever • Allergic reactions , which can include swelling of the face , tongue and / or throat , wheezing and / or difficulty breathing , skin redness , and low blood pressure • Fluid on lungs ( lung edema ) • Inflammation of the pancreas • Loss of sexual control during the time of recovery • Change in color of your urine after prolonged intravenous administration of propofol • Skin or tissue damage if the medicine is accidentally injected outside of a vein • Involuntary movements • Mood changes • Drug abuse and drug dependence • Cardiac arrest , heart failure • Shallow breathing • Pain and / or swelling at the injection site after the medicine was accidentally injected outside of a vein What other treatment choices are there ?
Your anesthesiologist or intensive care doctor may give you other sedation agents depending on your medical condition .
What if I am pregnant or breastfeeding ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you are pregnant , think you may be pregnant , or are planning to have a baby .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion may harm your unborn baby .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion should be used in pregnant women only if there are no other FDA - approved medicines available for your medical condition .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion may pass into breast milk .
You should stop breastfeeding and throw away ( discard ) breast milk for 24 hours after you have received Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion .
How do I report side effects with PROPOFOL - LIPURO 1 % INJECTABLE EMULSION FOR INFUSION ?
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
Report side effects to FDA MedWatch at www . fda . gov / medwatch or call 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report the problem to the B . Braun Medical Inc .
USA by phone at 1 - 833 - 425 - 1464 or by email at productqualityexcellence @ bbraunusa . com .
HOW CAN I LEARN MORE ABOUT COVID - 19 ?
• Ask your healthcare provider • Visit https : / / www . cdc . gov / COVID19 • Contact your local or state public health department WHAT IS AN EMERGENCY USE AUTHORIZATION ( EUA ) ?
The United States FDA has made Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion available under an emergency access mechanism called an EUA .
The EUA is supported by a Secretary of Health and Human Service ( HHS ) declaration that circumstances exist to justify the emergency use of drugs and biological products during the COVID - 19 pandemic .
Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion has not undergone the same type of review as an FDA - approved product .
FDA may issue an EUA when certain criteria are met , which includes that there are no adequate , approved , and available alternatives .
In addition , the FDA decision is based on the totality of scientific evidence available showing that it is reasonable to believe that the product meets certain criteria for safety , performance , and labeling , and may be effective in treatment of patients during the COVID - 19 pandemic .
All of those criteria must be met to allow for the product to be used in the treatment of patients during the COVID - 19 pandemic .
The EUA for Propofol - Lipuro 1 % injectable emulsion for infusion is in effect for the duration of the COVID - 19 declaration justifying emergency use of these products , unless terminated or revoked ( after which the products may no longer be used ) .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - VIAL Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( 10 mg / ml ) emulsion for injection or infusion Propofol Propofol - Lipuro 10 mg / ml 1000 mg in 100 ml ( 1 % ) 1 ml emulsion contains 10 mg propofol 100 ml emulsion contain 1 000 mg propofol Soya - bean oil refined , medium - chain triglycerides , glycerol , egg lecithin , sodium oleate , water for injections Emulsion for injection or infusion Intravenous use .
Shake well before use .
Read the package leaflet before use .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For single use in one patient only .
Use immediately after first opening / dilution .
Do not store above 25 ° C . Do not freeze .
After use , discard container and any unused contents .
PA 736 / 18 / 2 IRL POM PL 03551 / 0055 GB ; MA 223 / 00603 MT DH B . Braun Melsungen AG 34209 Melsungen , Germany 598 / 12299820 / 0819 Batch : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON Propofol - Lipuro 1 % ( 10 mg / ml ) emulsion for injection or infusion Propofol Propofol - Lipuro 10 mg / ml 1000 mg in 100 ml ( 1 % ) 10 x 100 ml 1 ml emulsion contains 10 mg propofol 1 vial with 100 ml contains 1 000 mg propofol Soya - bean oil refined , medium - chain triglycerides , glycerol , egg lecithin , sodium oleate , water for injections Emulsion for injection or infusion Intravenous use .
Shake well before use .
If two layers can be seen after shaking the product should not be used .
Read the package leaflet before use .
Keep out of the sight and reach of children .
For single use in one patient only .
Use immediately after first opening / dilution .
Do not store above 25 ° C . Do not freeze .
After use , discard container and any unused contents .
PA 736 / 18 / 2 IRL PL 03551 / 0055 GB MA 223 / 00603 MT DH POM Art .
No . : 362 8177 PC : 04030539076067 B . Braun Melsungen AG 34209 Melsungen , Germany 598 / 12605310 / 1118 Batch : EXP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
