1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mercaptopurine Tablets is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for treatment of adult and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen .
( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Mercaptopurine Tablets are indicated for treatment of adult and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The recommended starting dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets is 1 . 5 mg / kg to 2 . 5 mg / kg orally once daily as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen .
Adjust dose to maintain desirable absolute neutrophil count and for excessive myelosuppression .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Renal Impairment : Use the lowest recommended starting dose or increase the dosing interval .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 6 ) • • Hepatic Impairment : Use the lowest recommended starting dose .
( 2 . 3 , 8 . 7 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dosage of Mercaptopurine Tablets is 1 . 5 mg / kg to 2 . 5 mg / kg orally once daily as part of combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen .
A recommended dosage for patients less than 17 kg is not achievable , because the only available strength is 50 mg .
Take Mercaptopurine Tablets either consistently with or without food .
After initiating Mercaptopurine Tablets , monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) and adjust the dose to maintain absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) at a desirable level and for excessive myelosuppression .
Evaluate the bone marrow in patients with prolonged myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression to assess leukemia status and marrow cellularity .
Evaluate thiopurine S - methyltransferase ( TPMT ) and nucleotide diphosphatase ( NUDT15 ) status in patients with severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes or myelosuppression [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Do not administer to patients who are unable to swallow tablets .
If a patient misses a dose , instruct the patient to continue with the next scheduled dose .
Mercaptopurine Tablets is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications in Patients with TPMT and NUDT15 Deficiency Consider testing for TPMT and NUDT15 deficiency in patients who experience severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Homozygous Deficiency in either TPMT or NUDT15 Patients with homozygous deficiency of either enzyme typically require 10 % or less of the recommended dosage .
Reduce the recommended starting dosage of Mercaptopurine Tablets in patients who are known to have homozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency .
Heterozygous Deficiency in TPMT and / or NUDT15 Reduce the Mercaptopurine Tablets dose based on tolerability .
Most patients with heterozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency tolerate the recommended dosage , but some require a dose reduction based on adverse reactions .
Patients who are heterozygous for both TPMT and NUDT15 may require more substantial dose reductions .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications in Renal and Hepatic Impairment Renal Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for Mercaptopurine Tablets in patients with renal impairment ( CLcr less than 50 mL / min ) .
Adjust the dosage to maintain absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for Mercaptopurine Tablets in patients with hepatic impairment .
Adjust the dosage to maintain absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [ see Uses in SpecificPopulations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Modification with Concomitant Use of Allopurinol Reduce the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets to one - third to one - quarter of the current dosage when coadministered with allopurinol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 50 mg mercaptopurine are pale yellow , biconvex tablets , with product identification “ 54 420 ” on one side and a score on the other side .
Tablets : 50 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Myelosuppression : Monitor complete blood count ( CBC ) and adjust the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets for excessive myelosuppression .
Consider testing in patients with severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression for thiopurine S - methyltransferase ( TPMT ) or nucleotide diphosphatase ( NUDT15 ) deficiency .
Patients with homozygous or homozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency may require a dose reduction .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor transaminases , alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin .
Withhold Mercaptopurine Tablets at onset of hepatotoxicity .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Immunosuppression : Response to all vaccines may be diminished and there is a risk of infection with live virus vaccines .
Consult immunization guidelines for immunocompromised patients .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Treatment Related Malignancies : Aggressive and fatal cases of hepatosplenic T - cell lymphoma have occurred .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Macrophage Activation Syndrome : Monitor for and treat promptly ; discontinue Mercaptopurine Tablets .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 6 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression The most consistent , dose - related adverse reaction is myelosuppression , manifested by anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , or any combination of these .
Monitor CBC and adjust the dosage of Mercaptopurine Tablets for excessive myelosuppression [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Consider testing for TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency in patients with severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression .
TPMT genotyping or phenotyping ( red blood cell TPMT activity ) and NUDT15 genotyping can identify patients who have reduced activity of these enzymes .
Patients with heterozygous or homozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency may require a dose reduction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
Myelosuppression can be exacerbated by coadministration with allopurinol , aminosalicylates or other products that cause myelosuppression [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Reduce the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets when coadministered with allopurinol [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hepatotoxicity Mercaptopurine is hepatotoxic .
There are reports of deaths attributed to hepatic necrosis associated with the administration of mercaptopurine .
Hepatic injury can occur with any dosage but seems to occur with greater frequency when the recommended dosage is exceeded .
In some patients , jaundice has cleared following withdrawal of mercaptopurine and reappeared with rechallenge .
Usually , clinically detectable jaundice appears early in the course of treatment ( 1 to 2 months ) ; however , jaundice has been reported as early as 1 week and as late as 8 years after the starting mercaptopurine .
The hepatotoxicity has been associated in some cases with anorexia , diarrhea , jaundice and ascites .
Hepatic encephalopathy has occurred .
Monitor serum transaminase levels , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin levels at weekly intervals when first beginning therapy and at monthly intervals thereafter .
Monitor liver tests more frequently in patients who are receiving Mercaptopurine Tablets with other hepatotoxic products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] or with known pre - existing liver disease .
Withhold Mercaptopurine Tablets at onset of hepatotoxicity .
5 . 3 Immunosuppression Mercaptopurine is immunosuppressive and may impair the immune response to infectious agents or vaccines .
Due to the immunosuppression associated with maintenance chemotherapy for ALL , response to all vaccines may be diminished and there is a risk of infection with live virus vaccines .
Consult immunization guidelines for immunocompromised patients .
5 . 4 Treatment Related Malignancies Hepatosplenic T - cell lymphoma has been reported in patients treated with mercaptopurine for inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) , an unapproved use .
Mercaptopurine is mutagenic in animals and humans , carcinogenic in animals , and may increase the risk of secondary malignancies .
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy , including mercaptopurine , are at an increased risk of developing lymphoproliferative disorders and other malignancies , notably skin cancers ( melanoma and non - melanoma ) , sarcomas ( Kaposi ' s and non - Kaposi ' s ) and uterine cervical cancer in situ .
The increased risk appears to be related to the degree and duration of immunosuppression .
It has been reported that discontinuation of immunosuppression may provide partial regression of the lymphoproliferative disorder .
A treatment regimen containing multiple immunosuppressants ( including thiopurines ) should therefore be used with caution as this could lead to lymphoproliferative disorders , some with reported fatalities .
A combination of multiple immunosuppressants , given concomitantly increases the risk of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - associated lymphoproliferative disorders .
5 . 5 Macrophage Activation Syndrome Macrophage activation syndrome ( MAS ) ( hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ) is a known , life - threatening disorder that may develop in patients with autoimmune conditions , in particular with inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) , and there could potentially be an increased susceptibility for developing the condition with the use of mercaptopurine ( an unapproved use ) .
If MAS occurs , or is suspected , discontinue Mercaptopurine Tablets .
Monitor for and promptly treat infections such as EBV and cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) , as these are known triggers for MAS .
5 . 6 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
An increased incidence of miscarriage has been reported in women who received mercaptopurine in the first trimester of pregnancy .
Adverse embryo - fetal findings , including miscarriage and stillbirth , have been reported in women who received mercaptopurine after the first trimester of pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 6 months after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Immunosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Treatment related malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Macrophage activation syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reaction ( > 20 % ) is myelosuppression , including anemia , leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
Adverse reactions occurring in 5 % to 20 % of patients include anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , malaise and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 800 - 962 - 8364 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Based on multicenter cooperative group ALL trials , the most common adverse reaction occurring in > 20 % of patients was myelosuppression , including anemia , neutropenia , lymphopenia and thrombocytopenia .
Adverse reactions occurring in 5 % to 20 % of patients included anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , malaise and rash .
Adverse reactions occurring in < 5 % of patients included urticaria , hyperuricemia , oral lesions , increased transaminases , hyperbilirubinemia , hyperpigmentation , infections , and pancreatitis .
Oral lesions resemble thrush rather than antifolic ulcerations .
Delayed or late adverse reactions include hepatic fibrosis , hyperbilirubinemia , alopecia , pulmonary fibrosis , oligospermia and secondary malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Drug fever has been reported with mercaptopurine .
Additional adverse reactions that have been reported in patients who have received mercaptopurine include photosensitivity , hypoglycemia , and portal hypertension .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Allopurinol : Reduce the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets when co - administered with allopurinol .
( 2 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • Warfarin : Mercaptopurine Tablets may decrease the anticoagulant effect .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Allopurinol Allopurinol can inhibit the first - pass oxidative metabolism of mercaptopurine by xanthine oxidase , which can lead to an increased risk of mercaptopurine adverse reactions ( i . e . , myelosuppression , nausea , and vomiting ) [ see Warnings andPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Reduce the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets when coadministered with allopurinol [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Warfarin The concomitant administration of Mercaptopurine Tablets and warfarin may decrease the anticoagulant effectiveness of warfarin .
Monitor the international normalized ratio ( INR ) in patients receiving warfarin and adjust the warfarin dosage as appropriate .
7 . 3 Myelosuppressive Products Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause myelosuppression .
Myelosuppression may be increased when Mercaptopurine Tablets are coadministered with other products that cause myelosuppression .
Enhanced myelosuppression has been noted in some patients also receiving trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole .
Monitor the CBC and adjust the dose of Mercaptopurine Tablets for excessive myelosuppression [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 4 Aminosalicylates Aminosalicylates ( e . g . , mesalamine , olsalazine or sulfasalazine ) may inhibit the TPMT enzyme , which may increase the risk of myelosuppression when coadministered with Mercaptopurine Tablets .
When aminosalicylates and Mercaptopurine Tablets are coadministered , use the lowest possible doses for each drug and monitor more frequently for myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 5 Hepatotoxic Products Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause hepatotoxicity .
Hepatotoxicity may be increased when Mercaptopurine Tablets are coadministered with other products that cause hepatotoxicity .
Monitor liver tests more frequently in patients who are receiving Mercaptopurine Tablets with other hepatotoxic products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • • Infertility : Can impair fertility .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnant women who receive mercaptopurine have an increased incidence of miscarriage and stillbirth ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population ( s ) is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Women receiving mercaptopurine in the first trimester of pregnancy have an increased incidence of miscarriage ; the risk of malformation in offspring surviving first trimester exposure is not known .
In a series of 28 women receiving mercaptopurine after the first trimester of pregnancy , 3 mothers died prior to delivery , 1 delivered a stillborn child , and 1 aborted ; there were no cases of macroscopically abnormal fetuses .
Animal Data Mercaptopurine was embryo - lethal and teratogenic in several animal species ( rat , mouse , rabbit , and hamster ) at doses less than the recommended human dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of mercaptopurine or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating Mercaptopurine Tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 6 months after the last dose .
Males Based on genotoxicity findings , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Females and Males Based on findings from animal studies , Mercaptopurine Tablets can impair female and male fertility [ see NonclinicalToxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
The long - term effects of mercaptopurine on female and male fertility , including the reversibility have not been studied .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Mercaptopurine Tablets have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of Mercaptopurine Tablets in pediatrics is supported by evidence from the published literature and clinical experience .
Symptomatic hypoglycemia has been reported in pediatric patients with ALL receiving mercaptopurine .
Reported cases were in pediatrics less than 6 years of age or with a low body mass index .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of mercaptopurine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or another drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for Mercaptopurine Tablets or increase the dosing interval to every 36 to 48 hours in patients with renal impairment ( CLcr less than 50 mL / min ) .
Adjust the dose to maintain absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for Mercaptopurine Tablets in patients with hepatic impairment .
Adjust the dose to maintain absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of mercaptopurine overdosage may be immediate ( anorexia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea ) ; or delayed ( myelosuppression , liver dysfunction , and gastroenteritis ) .
Dialysis cannot be expected to clear mercaptopurine .
Hemodialysis is thought to be of marginal use due to the rapid intracellular incorporation of mercaptopurine into active metabolites with long persistence .
Withhold Mercaptopurine Tablets immediately for severe or life - threatening adverse reactions occur during treatment .
If a patient is seen immediately following an accidental overdosage , it may be useful to induce emesis .
11 DESCRIPTION Mercaptopurine is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor , the chemical name is 6 H - purine - 6 - thione , 1 , 7 - dihydro - , monohydrate .
The molecular formula is C5H4N4S • H2O and the molecular weight is 170 . 20 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mercaptopurine is a yellow , crystalline powder .
Mercaptopurine is practically insoluble in water and in ether .
It has a pKa of 7 . 8 , an average tapped density of 1 . 0 g / mL and average bulk density of 0 . 85 g / mL .
It dissolves in solutions of alkali hydroxides .
Mercaptopurine Tablets , USP are available for oral use .
Each scored tablet contains 50 mg mercaptopurine , USP and the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , hypromellose , lactose ( anhydrous ) , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch , sodium starch glycolate and stearic acid .
Each tablet meets the requirements of Test 2 for Dissolution in the USP monograph for Mercaptopurine Tablets , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mercaptopurine is a purine analog that undergoes intracellular transport and activation to form metabolites including thioguanine nucleotides ( TGNs ) .
Incorporation of TGNs into DNA or RNA results in cell - cycle arrest and cell death .
TGNs and other mercaptopurine metabolites are also inhibitors of de novo purine synthesis and purine nucleotide interconversions .
Mercaptopurine was cytotoxic to proliferating cancer cells in vitro and had antitumor activity in mouse tumor models .
It is not known which of the biochemical effects of mercaptopurine and its metabolites are directly or predominantly responsible for cell death .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Exposure - Response Relationships Mercaptopurine exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following a single oral dose of mercaptopurine 50 mg under fasted conditions to adult healthy subjects , the mean AUC0 - INF was 129 h · ng / mL and Cmax was 69 ng / mL .
Absorption Food Effect Food has been shown to decrease the exposure of mercaptopurine .
Distribution The volume of distribution usually exceeded that of the total body water .
There is negligible entry of mercaptopurine into cerebrospinal fluid .
Plasma protein binding averages 19 % over the concentration range 10 to 50 mcg / mL ( a concentration only achieved by intravenous administration of mercaptopurine at doses exceeding 5 to 10 mg / kg ) .
Elimination The elimination half - life is less than 2 hours following a single oral dose .
Metabolism Mercaptopurine is inactivated via two major pathways .
One is thiol methylation , which is catalyzed by the polymorphic enzyme thiopurine S - methyltransferase ( TPMT ) , to form the inactive metabolite methyl - mercaptopurine .
The second inactivation pathway is oxidation , which is catalyzed by xanthine oxidase .
The product of oxidation is the inactive metabolite 6 - thiouric acid .
Excretion Following the oral administration of radiolabeled mercaptopurine , 46 % of the dose was recovered in the urine ( as parent drug and metabolites ) in the first 24 hours .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics Several published studies indicate that patients with reduced TPMT or NUDT15 activity receiving usual doses of mercaptopurine , accumulate excessive cellular concentrations of active 6 - TGNs , and are at higher risk for severe myelosuppression .
In a study of 1028 children with ALL , the approximate tolerated mercaptopurine dosage for patients with TPMT and / or NUDT15 deficiency on mercaptopurine maintenance therapy ( as a percentage of the planned dosage ) was as follows : heterozygous for either TPMT or NUDT15 , 50 to 90 % ; heterozygous for both TPMT and NUDT15 , 30 to 50 % ; homozygous for either TPMT or NUDT15 , 5 to 10 % .
Approximately 0 . 3 % ( 1 : 300 ) of patients of European or African ancestry have two loss - of - function alleles of the TPMT gene and have little or no TPMT activity ( homozygous deficient or poor metabolizers ) , and approximately 10 % of patients have one loss - of - function TPMT allele leading to intermediate TPMT activity ( heterozygous deficient or intermediate metabolizers ) .
The TPMT * 2 , TPMT * 3 A , and TPMT * 3 C alleles account for about 95 % of individuals with reduced levels of TPMT activity .
NUDT15 deficiency is detected in < 1 % of patients of European or African ancestry .
Among patients of East Asian ancestry ( i . e . , Chinese , Japanese , Vietnamese ) , 2 % have two loss - of - function alleles of the NUDT15 gene , and approximately 21 % have one loss - of - function allele .
The p . R139C variant of NUDT15 ( present on the * 2 and * 3 alleles ) is the most commonly observed , but other less common loss - of - function NUDT15 alleles have been observed .
Consider all clinical information when interpreting results from phenotypic testing used to determine the level of thiopurine nucleotides or TPMT activity in erythrocytes , since some coadministered drugs can influence measurement of TPMT activity in blood and blood from recent transfusions will misrepresent a patient ’ s actual TPMT activity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mercaptopurine is carcinogenic in animals .
Mercaptopurine causes chromosomal aberrations in cells derived from animals and humans and induces dominant - lethal mutations in the germ cells of male mice .
Mercaptopurine can impair fertility .
In mice , surviving female offspring of mothers who received chronic low doses of mercaptopurine during pregnancy were found sterile , or if they became pregnant , had smaller litters and more dead fetuses as compared to control animals .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
OSHA Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mercaptopurine Tablets , USP 50 mg supplied as pale yellow , biconvex tablets , with product identification “ 54 420 ” on one side and a score on the other side .
NDC 0054 - 4581 - 11 : Bottle of 25 Tablets NDC 0054 - 4581 - 27 : Bottle of 250 Tablets Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Store in a dry place .
Dispense in a tight , child - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Mercaptopurine Tablets is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Major Adverse Reactions Advise patients and caregivers that Mercaptopurine Tablets can cause myelosuppression , hepatotoxicity , and gastrointestinal toxicity .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience fever , sore throat , jaundice , nausea , vomiting , signs of local infection , bleeding from any site , or symptoms suggestive of anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • • Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Use in SpecificPopulations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with Mercaptopurine Tablets and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males and females of reproductive potential that Mercaptopurine Tablets can impair fertility [ see Use in SpecificPopulations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Other Adverse Reactions Instruct patients to minimize sun exposure due to risk of photosensitivity [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 C50000734 / 01 Revised June 2021 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Mercaptopurine Tablets , USP NDC 0054 - 4581 - 11 : Bottle of 25 tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
