[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % is a white to off - white , water washable cream for intravaginal administration containing 0 . 8 % of the antifungal agent terconazole , cis - 1 - [ p - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - Dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - 4 - isopropylpiperazine , compounded in a cream base consisting of butylated hydroxyanisole , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , and purified water .
The structural formula of terconazole is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terconazole , a triazole derivative , is a white to almost white powder with a molecular weight of 532 . 47 .
It is insoluble in water ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; and soluble in butanol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following intravaginal administration of terconazole in humans , absorption ranged from 5 - 8 % in three hysterectomized subjects and 12 - 16 % in two non - hysterectomized subjects with tubal ligations .
Following daily intravaginal administration of 0 . 8 % terconazole 40 mg ( 0 . 8 % cream x 5 g ) for seven days to normal humans , plasma concentrations were low and gradually rose to a daily peak ( mean of 5 . 9 ng / mL or 0 . 006 mcg / mL ) at 6 . 6 hours .
Results from similar studies in patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis indicate that the slow rate of absorption , the lack of accumulation , and the mean peak plasma concentration of terconazole was not different from that observed in healthy women .
The absorption characteristics of terconazole 0 . 8 % in pregnant or non - pregnant patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were also similar to those found in normal volunteers .
Following oral ( 30 mg ) administration of 14 C - labelled terconazole , the harmonic half - life of elimination from the blood for the parent terconazole was 6 . 9 hours ( range 4 . 0 - 11 . 3 ) .
Terconazole is extensively metabolized ; the plasma AUC for terconazole compared to the AUC for total radioactivity was 0 . 6 % .
Total radioactivity was eliminated from the blood with a harmonic half - life of 52 . 2 hours ( range 44 - 60 ) .
Excretion of radioactivity was both by renal ( 32 - 56 % ) and fecal ( 47 - 52 % ) routes .
In vitro , terconazole is highly protein bound ( 94 . 9 % ) and the degree of binding is independent of drug concentration .
Photosensitivity reactions were observed in some normal volunteers following repeated dermal application of terconazole 2 . 0 % and 0 . 8 % creams under conditions of filtered artificial ultraviolet light .
Photosensitivity reactions have not been observed in U . S . and foreign clinical trials in patients who were treated with terconazole suppositories or vaginal cream 0 . 8 % .
Microbiology : Terconazole exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against Candida albicans .
Antifungal activity also has been demonstrated against other fungi .
The MIC values of terconazole against most Lactobacillus spp .
typically found in the human vagina were > 128 mcg / mL ; therefore these beneficial bacteria are not affected by drug treatment .
The exact pharmacologic mode of action of terconazole is uncertain ; however , it may exert its antifungal activity by the disruption of normal fungal cell membrane permeability .
No resistance to terconazole has developed during successive passages of C . albicans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % is indicated for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( moniliasis ) .
As terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % is effective only for vulvovaginitis caused by the genus Candida , the diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smears and / or cultures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients known to be hypersensitive to terconazole or to any of the components of the cream .
WARNINGS None .
PRECAUTIONS General : Discontinue use and do not retreat with terconazole if sensitization , irritation , fever , chills or flu - like symptoms are reported during use .
Laboratory Tests : If there is a lack of response to terconazole , appropriate microbiological studies ( standard KOH smear and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens .
Drug Interactions : The therapeutic effect of this product is not affected by oral contraceptive usage .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : Studies to determine the carcinogenic potential of terconazole have not been performed .
Mutagenicity : Terconazole was not mutagenic when tested in vitro for induction of microbial point mutations ( Ames test ) , or for inducing cellular transformation , or in vivo for chromosome breaks ( micronucleus test ) or dominant lethal mutations in mouse germ cells .
Impairment of Fertility : No impairment of fertility occurred when female rats were administered terconazole orally up to 40 mg / kg / day for a three month period .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : There was no evidence of teratogenicity when terconazole was administered orally up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 50 x the recommended intravaginal human dose of the 0 . 8 % vaginal cream formulation ) in rats , or 20 mg / kg / day in rabbits , or subcutaneously up to 20 mg / kg / day in rats .
Dosages at or below 10 mg / kg / day produced no embryotoxicity ; however there was a delay in fetal ossification at 10 mg / kg / day in rats .
There was some evidence of embryotoxicity in rabbits and rats at 20 - 40 mg / kg .
In rats , this was reflected as a decrease in litter size and number of viable young and reduced fetal weight .
There was also delay in ossification and an increase incidence of skeletal variants .
The no - effect dose of 10 mg / kg / day resulted in a mean peak plasma level of terconazole in pregnant rats of 0 . 176 mcg / mL which exceeds by 30 times the mean peak plasma level ( 0 . 006 mcg / mL ) seen in normal subjects after intravaginal administration of terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % .
This safety assessment does not account for possible exposure of the fetus through direct transfer to terconazole from the irritated vagina by diffusion across amniotic membranes .
Since terconazole is absorbed from the human vagina , it should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Animal studies have shown that rat offspring exposed via the milk of treated ( 40 mg / kg / orally ) dams showed decreased survival during the first few post - partum days , but overall pup weight and weight gain were comparable to or greater than controls throughout lactation .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for adverse reaction in nursing infants from terconazole , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and efficacy in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of terconazole vaginal cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During controlled clinical studies conducted in the United States , patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis were treated with terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % for 3 days .
Based on comparative analyses with placebo and a standard agent , the adverse experiences considered most likely related to terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % were headache ( 21 % vs 16 % with placebo ) and dysmenorrhea ( 6 % vs 2 % with placebo ) .
Genital complaints in general , and burning and itching in particular , occurred less frequently in the terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % 3 day regimen ( 5 % vs . 6 % - 9 % with placebo ) .
Other adverse experiences reported with terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % were abdominal pain ( 3 . 4 % vs . 1 % with placebo ) and fever ( 1 % vs . 0 . 3 % with placebo ) .
The therapy - related dropout rate was 2 . 0 % for the terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % .
The adverse drug experience most frequently causing discontinuation of therapy was vulvovaginal itching , 0 . 7 % with the terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % group and 0 . 3 % with the placebo group .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of terconazole in humans has not been reported to date .
In the rat , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 1741 and 849 mg / kg for the male and female , respectively .
The oral LD 50 values for the male and female dog were & ap ; 1280 and ≥ 640 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One full applicatorful ( 5 g ) of terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % ( 40 mg terconazole ) should be administered intravaginally once daily at bedtime for three consecutive days .
Before prescribing another course of therapy , the diagnosis should be reconfirmed by smears and / or cultures and other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis ruled out .
The therapeutic effect of terconazole vaginal cream 0 . 8 % is not affected by menstruation .
HOW SUPPLIED Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % ( NDC : 63629 - 8837 - 1 ) is available in 20 gram tubes with a measured dose applicator .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Terconazole Vaginal Cream 0 . 8 % PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS 3 - DAY THERAPY Filling the applicator : • 1 .
Remove the cap from the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Use the pointed tip on the top of the cap to puncture the seal on the tube .
• 3 .
Screw the applicator onto the tube .
• 4 .
Squeeze the tube from the bottom and fill the applicator until the plunger stops .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Unscrew the applicator from the tube .
Using the applicator : • 1 .
Lie on your back with your knees drawn up toward your chest .
• 2 .
Holding the applicator by the ribbed end of the barrel , insert the filled applicator into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Slowly press the plunger of the applicator to release the cream into the vagina .
• 4 .
Remove the applicator from the vagina .
• 5 .
Apply one applicatorful each night for as many days at bedtime , as directed by your doctor .
Cleaning the applicator : After each use , you should thoroughly clean the applicator by following the procedure below : • 1 .
Pull the plunger out of the barrel .
• 2 .
Wash the pieces with lukewarm , soapy water , and dry them thoroughly .
• 3 .
Put the applicator back together by gently pushing the plunger into the barrel as far as it will go .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NOTE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
See end flap for lot number and expiration date .
A WORD ABOUT YEAST INFECTIONS Why do yeast infections occur ?
Yeast infections are caused by an organism called Candida ( KAN di duh ) .
It may be present in small and harmless amounts in the mouth , digestive tract , and vagina .
Sometimes the natural balance of the vagina becomes upset .
This may lead to rapid growth of Candida , which results in a yeast infection .
Symptoms of a yeast infection include itching , burning , redness , and an abnormal discharge .
Your doctor can make the diagnosis of a yeast infection by evaluating your symptoms and looking at a sample of the discharge under the microscope .
How can I prevent yeast infections ?
Certain factors may increase your chance of developing a yeast infection .
These factors do n't actually cause the problem , but they may create a situation that allows the yeast to grow rapidly .
• • Clothing : Tight jeans , nylon underwear , pantyhose , and wet bathing suits can hold in heat and moisture ( two conditions in which yeast organisms thrive ) .
Looser pants or skirts , 100 % cotton underwear , and stockings may help avoid this problem .
• • Diet : Cutting down on sweets , milk products , and artificial sweeteners may reduce the risk of yeast infections .
• • Antibiotics : Antibiotics work by eliminating disease - causing organisms .
While they are helpful in curing other problems , antibiotics may lead to an overgrowth of Candida in the vagina .
• • Pregnancy : Hormonal changes in the body during pregnancy encourage the growth of yeast .
This is a very common time for an infection to occur .
Until the baby is born , it may be hard to completely eliminate yeast infections .
If you believe you are pregnant , tell your doctor .
• • Menstruation : Sometimes monthly changes in hormone levels may lead to yeast infections .
• • Diabetes : In addition to heat and moisture , yeast thrives on sugar .
Because diabetics often have sugar in their urine , their vaginas are rich in this substance .
Careful control of diabetes may help prevent yeast infections .
• Controlling these factors can help eliminate yeast infections and may prevent them from coming back .
Some other helpful tips : • 1 .
For best results , be sure to use the medication as prescribed by your doctor , even if you feel better very quickly .
• 2 .
Avoid sexual intercourse , if your doctor advises you to do so .
• 3 .
If your partner has any penile itching , redness , or discomfort , he should consult his physician and mention that you are being treated for a yeast infection .
• 4 .
You can use the medication even if you are having your menstrual period .
However , you should not use tampons because they may absorb the medication .
Instead , use external pads or napkins until you have finished your medication .
You may also wish to wear a sanitary napkin if the vaginal medication leaks .
• 5 .
Dry the genital area thoroughly after showering , bathing , or swimming .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp exercise clothes as soon as possible .
A dry environment is less likely to encourage the growth of yeast .
• 6 .
Wipe from front to rear ( away from the vagina ) after a bowel movement .
• 7 .
Do n't douche unless your doctor specifically tells you to do so .
Douching may disturb the vaginal balance .
• 8 .
Do n't scratch if you can help it .
Scratching can cause more irritation and spread the infection .
• 9 .
Discuss with your physician any medication you are already taking .
Certain types of medication can make your vagina more susceptible to infection .
• 10 .
Eat nutritious meals to promote your general health .
• E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 46270465 A R05 / 2020 Terconazole Cream 0 . 8 % # 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
