Active Ingredients ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Dexbrompheniramine Maleate , USP .......... 1 mg .................... Antihistamine Pseudoephedrine HCL , USP ............
30 mg ......................
Nasal Decongestant Uses : • Temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to common cold , hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • Helps decongest sinus openings and sinus passages • Reduces swelling of nasal passages , shrinks swollen membranes , and temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • Temporarily alleviates the following symtoms due to hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) : runny nose , sneezing , itching of the nose or throat , itchy and watery eyes .
Warnings : • Do not use if you are taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains an MAOI , ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disese • diabetes • glucoma • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland .
When using this product • do not exceed the recommended dosage • excitability may occur , especially in children • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic beverages • alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a Health Professional before use .
Directions : Do not exceed more than 4 doses in any 24 - hour period or as directed by a doctor .
Age Dose Adults and children 12 years of age and over take two teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age take one teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 to 6 hours Children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Other Information : • Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 degree celcius ( 68 - 77 degree farenheit ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 degree clecius ( 59 - 86 degree farenheit ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperture ) Tamper evident by imprinted heat seal under cap • Do not use if there is evidence of tampering • WARNING : Phenylketonuric : Contains 13 . 5 mg of Phenylalanine per 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) dose .
Inactive Ingredients : aspartame , cherry flavor , citric acid , glycerine , menthol , methylparaben , potassium citrate , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben and purified water .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 595 - 5598 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
