[ MULTIMEDIA ] For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
Rx Only DESCRIPTION Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % contains desonide ( Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11ß , 16α ) ) a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primary synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , desonide , the active ingredient in Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % is C24H32O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of desonide is 416 . 51 .
It is white to off - white powder .
The solubility of desonide in distilled water saturated with the ether is 184 mg / L .
Each gram of Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 milligram of desonide microdispersed in a base of white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , desonide has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called , lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics - The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Studies performed with Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % indicate that it is in the low range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % is a low potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
It should not be used for longer than two weeks unless directed by a physician .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General - Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Patients receiving superpotent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than two weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA suppressions .
No specific studies relevant to potential HPA suppression have been conducted with Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should not be used in the presence of infection at the treatment site , hypersensitivity to corticosteroids , or pre - existing skin atrophy .
Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should not be used in the eyes .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests - The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH stimulation test • A . M . plasma cortisol test • Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic , mutagenic , or fertility impairment potential of Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % .
It is also not known whether Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers - Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ’ s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % was approximately 6 % .
These adverse reactions were erythema , induration , pruritus , irritation , oiliness , and peripheral edema .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria , burning and hypopigmentation .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should be applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within two weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % is available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 52565 - 038 - 15 ) 60 g tube ( NDC 52565 - 038 - 60 ) Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , NJ 08310 Revised 07 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 gram Carton NDC 52565 - 038 - 15 Desonide Ointment , 0 . 05 % Net Wt .
15 g Rx Only For External Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
