Apply BioFlexor gel onto the affected area ( s ) up to 3 to 4 times daily as needed .
Apply sufficient amount at bedtime for a restful sleep and in the morning to loosen stiff muscles and joints , and reduce pain .
The therapeutic effects of BioFlexor will allow you to become more active and return to normal activities of daily living .
For External use only .
Do not swallow .
If Accidentally ingested , induce vomiting .
Call a physician or poison control center immediately .
If irritation develops , discontinue use of this product and consult a physician .
Do not use on open sores , wounds , irritated or broken skin .
Do not use with other creams , gels , ointments , topical medications , heating pads or other heat producing devices .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membrane .
Store in a cool dry place .
Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
BioFlexor gel is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to menthol .
For children under 2 , pregnant or nursing mothers , consult a physician .
0 . 25 oz ( 7 . 5 Gm ) Jars NDC # 62391 - 001 - 10 2 . 25 oz ( 67 . 5 Gm ) Jars NDC # 62391 - 001 - 02 4 . 5 oz ( 135 Gm ) Jars NDC # 62391 - 001 - 04 32 oz ( 960 Gm ) Jars NDC # 62391 - 001 - 30 TO PLACE ORDERS : To place orders , please call customer service at : 1 - 800 - 909 - 9854 Or Fax orders to : 1 - 800 - 316 - 7853 Visit our website at : www . bioflexor . com Mfg . by HEALTH CARE LABS , INC .
P . O . Box 1734 , Cleveland , TX 77328 Keep out of reach of children .
BioFlexor ® Deep Penetrating Effective Pain Relief Gel Description : BioFlexor ® gel is an OTC topical analgesic preparation which delivers deep penetrating , effective pain relief .
BioFlexor ® is a unique product from several viewpoints .
In developing BioFlexor ® , our main focus was to formulate a potent topical analgesic agent that would minimize the need for oral narcotic analgesics .
The result is an exceptional product that truly helps those individuals suffering from the pain associated with the spectrum of medical conditions from arthritis to muscle aches and pain , simple back aches , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Menthol is the only listed active ingredient on the BioFlexor ® label .
The other all natural components work synergistically to produce the pain relieving activity .
Another unique aspect of BioFlexor ® relates to the immediate and long - lasting pain relief without the side effects of lingering scent ( Methyl Salicylate rubs , ie .
Ben Gay ) , burning sensation ( Capsaicin ie .
Zostrix , Theragesic , Icy - Hot ) , greasy residue ( ie .
Aspercreme , Ben - Gay ) , and dry skin ( alcohol formulations , ie .
Biofreeze ) .
The BioFlexor ® formulation contains no alcohol , capsaicin , or methyl salicylate .
Mechanism of Action : The initial pain relief mechanism produced by the absorption of BioFlexor ® generates a topical cooling effect .
This is a result of vasoconstriction of peripheral vessels in the affected areas , yielding a decreased blood flow .
This action causes a decrease in temperature of the skin and subcutaneous tissues .
As penetration continues , an interruption of sympathetic nerve conduction occurs , producing a warm vasodilation .
This in turn increases the blood flow to muscle tissues and to the surface of the skin , promoting the healing process and rendering analgesic properties .
BioFlexor ® gel is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to menthol .
How Supplied : 2 . 25 oz ( 67 . 5 gm ) Jars … ..
NDC # 62391 - 001 - 02 4 . 5 oz ( 135 gm ) Jars … ..
… NDC # 62391 - 001 - 04 TO PLACE ORDERS : Please call Customer Service at : 1 - 800 - 909 - 9854 or Fax Orders to : 1 - 800 - 316 - 7853 or Visit our Website at : www . bioflexor . com Mfg . By : HEALTH CARE LABORATORIES , INC .
112 S . COLLEGE AVE . # 100 A CLEVELAND , TX 77327 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ˚ - 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ - 86 ˚ F ) * Registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient Purpose Menthol 3 % , Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
Do Not Use : • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product : • avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if : • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • excessive skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact the Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age : • consult a doctor Other Information • Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° ) • Lot No .
and Expiration Date : See Container Inactive Ingredients Carbopolymer , Edetate Disodium Peacock Blue MX26 , Phenoxyethanol / Paraben Blend , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Proprietary Blend , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide Active Ingredient : Menthol 3 % Inactive Ingredients : Carbopol Polymer , Edetate Disodium , Peacock Blue MX26 , Phenoxyethanol / Paraben Blend , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Proprietary Blend , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide Description : BioFlexor ® gel is an OTC topical analgesic preparation which delivers deep penetrating , effective pain relief .
BioFlexor ® is a unique product from several viewpoints .
In developing BioFlexor ® , our main focus was to formulate a potent topical analgesic agent that would minimize the need for oral narcotic analgesics .
The result is an exceptional product that truly helps those individuals suffering from the pain associated with the spectrum of medical conditions from arthritis to muscle aches and pain , simple back aches , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Menthol is the only listed active ingredient on the BioFlexor ® label .
The other all natural components work synergistically to produce the pain relieving activity .
Another unique aspect of BioFlexor ® relates to the immediate and long - lasting pain relief without the side effects of lingering scent ( Methyl Salicylate rubs , ie .
Ben Gay ) , burning sensation ( Capsaicin ie .
Zostrix , Theragesic , Icy - Hot ) , greasy residue ( ie .
Aspercreme , Ben - Gay ) , and dry skin ( alcohol formulations , ie .
Biofreeze ) .
The BioFlexor formulation contains no alcohol , capsaicin or methyl salicylate .
INDICATIONS : For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains .
USAGE : Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 12 years of age , pregnant or nursing mothers : Consult a physician .
BioFlexor Jar [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
