Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each dose ) ( Packet Only ) Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , 17 g Purpose Osmotic Laxative , powder for Solution Unflavored powder grit free Each Packet contains one dose , net wt 0 . 5 oz ( 17 g ) Mix - In Pax ® Travel Size Relieves occasional constipation / irregularity Softens stool ONCE - DAILY DOSES Use • • relieves occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • • generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • nausea , vomiting or abdominal pain • • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks • • irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug When using this product you may have loose , watery , more frequent stools Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you have rectal bleeding or your nausea , bloating , cramping or abdominal pain gets worse .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
• • you get diarrhea • • you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
This Unit dose package is not child resistant and is intended for Institutional Use Only .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Directions ( Packet Only ) • • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • • adults and children 17 years of age and older : • • stir and dissolve one packet of powder ( 17 g ) in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage ( cold , hot or room temperature ) then drink • • ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking • • do not drink if there are any clumps • • use once a day • • use no more than 7 days • • children 16 years of age or under : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • tamper - evident : do not use if foil is open or broken • • Unflavored • • Sugar Free • • Dissolves in any Beverage Inactive ingredients none Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - MiraLAX ( 1 - 800 - 647 - 2529 ) Bayer , the Bayer Cross , Mis - In Pax and MiraLAX are registered trademarks of Bayer .
Dist .
By : Bayer HealthCare LLC Whippany , NJ 07981 NeatPAX is a trademark owned by its respective owner .
Distributed by : Cardinal Health Dublin , OH 43017 L4532222 - 10322 L4532222 - 20322 Principal Display Panel MiraLAX ® Polyethylene Glycol 3350 , Powder for Solution , Osmotic Laxative 6 Packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
