1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is a combination of adapalene , a retinoid , and benzoyl peroxide , and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only ; Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin film of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
Use a pea - sized amount for each area of the face ( e . g . , forehead , chin , each cheek ) .
Avoid the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) Apply a thin film of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
Use a pea - sized amount for each area of the face ( e . g . , forehead , chin , each cheek ) .
Avoid the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each gram of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel contains 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) adapalene and 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) benzoyl peroxide in a white to very pale yellow , opaque , aqueous based gel .
Each gram of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel contains 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) adapalene and 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) benzoyl peroxide .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear sunscreen when sun exposure cannot be avoided .
( 5 . 1 ) Erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging / burning , irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur with use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel and may necessitate discontinuation .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Patients with high levels of sun exposure and those with inherent sensitivity to sun should exercise particular caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective apparel , ( e . g . , hat ) are recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , may be irritating to patients under treatment with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
5 . 2 Local Cutaneous Reactions Erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning may be experienced with use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
These are most likely to occur during the first four weeks of treatment , are mostly mild to moderate in intensity , and usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur .
Depending upon the severity of these adverse reactions , patients should be instructed to use a moisturizer , reduce the frequency of the application of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , or discontinue use .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
As with other retinoids , use of " waxing " as a depilatory method should be avoided on skin treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Avoid concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have strong skin - drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or limes ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most commonly reported adverse events ( ≥ 1 % ) in patients treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel were dry skin , contact dermatitis , application site burning , application site irritation and skin irritation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Prasco Laboratories , at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During clinical trials , 1401 subjects were exposed to Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
A total of 1036 subjects with acne vulgaris , 12 years and older , were treated once daily for 12 weeks to 12 months .
Related adverse events reported within 12 weeks of treatment and in at least 1 % of subjects treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel and those reported in subjects treated with the vehicle gel are presented in Table 1 : Table 1 .
Drug Related Adverse Events Reported in Clinical Trials by at least 1 % of Patients treated for 12 Weeks [ MULTIMEDIA ] Local tolerability evaluations , presented in Table 2 , were conducted at each study visit in clinical trials by assessment of erythema , scaling , dryness , burning , and stinging .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Analysis over the 12 - week period showed that local tolerability scores for erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning peaked at Week 1 of therapy and decreased thereafter .
During a pediatric clinical trial , 285 children with acne vulgaris , 9 to 11 years of age were treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel or with the vehicle gel once daily for 12 weeks .
Overall , the safety profile of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel in these subjects is comparable to the safety profile observed in older subjects 12 years of age and above , both in the nature and frequency of the observed adverse events .
Analysis of local tolerability evaluations shows similar incidence of treatment emergent signs and symptoms as in subjects 12 years of age and above , with local tolerability signs and symptoms peaking during the first week and decreasing over time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel : eyelid edema , sunburn , blister , pain of skin , pruritus , swelling face , conjunctivitis , skin discoloration , rash , eczema , throat tightness and allergic contact dermatitis .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating , or abrasive agents .
No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no well - controlled trials in pregnant women treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with the combination gel or benzoyl peroxide .
Furthermore , such studies are not always predictive of human response ; therefore , Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
No teratogenic effects were observed in rats treated with oral doses of 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg adapalene / kg / day , up to 25 times ( mg / m2 / day ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 grams of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
However , teratogenic changes were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of ≥ 25 mg adapalene / kg / day representing 123 and 246 times MRHD , respectively .
Findings included cleft palate , microphthalmia , encephalocele and skeletal abnormalities in rats ; and umbilical hernia , exophthalmos and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits .
Dermal teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 - 6 . 0 mg adapalene / kg / day [ 25 - 59 times ( mg / m2 ) the MRHD ] exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether adapalene or benzoyl peroxide is excreted in human milk following use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel in pediatric patients under the age of 9 have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is a white to very pale yellow , opaque gel for topical use containing adapalene 0 . 1 % and benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % .
Active : Adapalene , a synthetic retinoid , is a naphthoic acid derivative with retinoid - like properties .
The chemical name for adapalene is ( 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid ) .
It has the following structural formula : Adapalene : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C28H28O3 Molecular weight : 412 . 5 Benzoyl Peroxide is a highly lipophilic oxidizing agent that localizes in both bacterial and keratinocyte cell membranes .
The chemical name for benzoyl peroxide is dibenzoyl peroxide .
It has the following structural formula : Benzoyl Peroxide : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C14H10O4 Molecular weight : 242 . 23 Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel contains the following inactive ingredients : acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , poloxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sorbitan oleate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adapalene Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to cytosolic receptor protein .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization and inflammatory processes .
However , the significance of these findings with regard to the mechanism of action of adapalene for the treatment of acne is unknown .
Benzoyl peroxide Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent with bactericidal and keratolytic effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in 10 adult subjects with acne vulgaris who were treated once daily for 30 days with 2 grams / day of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel applied to 1000 cm2 of acne involved skin , ( face , chest , and upper back ) .
Two subjects ( 20 % ) had quantifiable adapalene plasma concentrations above the limit of quantification ( LOQ = 0 . 1 ng / mL ) .
The highest adapalene Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h was 0 . 21 ng / mL and 1 . 99 ng • h / mL , respectively .
Excretion of adapalene appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
Pharmacokinetics of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel in pediatric subjects have not been evaluated .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is converted to benzoic acid and eliminated in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , photocarcinogenicity , genotoxicity , or fertility studies were conducted with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 4 , 1 . 3 , and 4 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 2 , 3 . 9 , and 12 mg / m2 / day ) , and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 , 3 . 0 , and 9 . 0 mg / m2 / day ) .
In terms of body surface area , the highest dose levels are 9 . 8 ( mice ) and 7 . 4 times ( rats ) the MRHD of 2 grams of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
In the rat study , an increased incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medulla of male rats was observed .
No significant increase in tumor formation was observed in rodents topically treated with 15 - 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel ( 6 - 10 times the concentration of benzoyl peroxide in Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ) for two years .
Rats received maximum daily applications of 138 ( males ) and 205 ( females ) mg benzoyl peroxide / kg .
In terms of body surface area , these levels are 27 - 40 times the MRHD .
Similar results were obtained in mice topically treated with 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for 56 weeks followed by intermittent treatment with 15 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for the rest of the 2 year study period , and in mice topically treated with 5 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for two years .
The role of benzoyl peroxide as a tumor promoter has been well established in several animal species .
However , the significance of this finding in humans is unknown .
In a photocarcinogenicity study conducted with 5 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel , no increase in UV - induced tumor formation was observed in hairless mice topically treated for 40 weeks .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted with adapalene .
However , animal studies have shown an increased tumorigenic risk with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or sunlight .
Although the significance of these findings to humans is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial irradiation sources .
Adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic effects in vitro ( Ames test , Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , mouse lymphoma TK assay ) or in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Bacterial mutagenicity assays ( Ames test ) with benzoyl peroxide has provided mixed results , mutagenic potential was observed in a few but not in a majority of investigations .
Benzoyl peroxide has been shown to produce single - strand DNA breaks in human bronchial epithelial and mouse epidermal cells , it has caused DNA - protein cross - links in the human cells , and has also induced a dose - dependent increase in sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
In rat oral studies , 20 mg adapalene / kg / day ( 120 mg / m2 / day ; 98 times the MRHD based on mg / m2 / day comparison ) did not affect the reproductive performance and fertility of F0 males and females , or growth , development and reproductive function of F1 offspring .
No fertility studies were conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel applied once daily for the treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in two 12 - week , multicenter , controlled clinical studies of similar design , comparing Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to the gel vehicle in acne subjects .
Treatment response was defined as the percent of subjects who had a two grade improvement and rated ‘ Clear ’ and ‘ Almost Clear ’ at Week 12 based on the Investigator ' s Global Assessment ( IGA ) and mean absolute change from baseline at Week 12 in both inflammatory and non - inflammatory lesion counts .
An IGA score of ' Clear ' corresponded to residual hyperpigmentation and erythema may be present .
An IGA score of ‘ Almost Clear ’ corresponded to a few scattered comedones and a few small papules .
In Study 1 , 517 subjects were randomized to Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , adapalene 0 . 1 % in vehicle gel , benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in vehicle gel , or vehicle gel .
The median age of these 517 subjects was 15 years old and 60 % were males .
At baseline subjects had between 20 to 50 inflammatory lesions and 30 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions .
The majority of subjects had a baseline IGA score of ‘ Moderate ’ which corresponded to more than half of the face is involved , many comedones , papules and pustules .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
In Study 2 , 1668 subjects were randomized to Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , adapalene 0 . 1 % in vehicle gel , benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in vehicle gel , or vehicle gel .
The median age of subjects was 16 years old and 49 % were males .
At baseline subjects had between 20 to 50 inflammatory lesions and 30 to 100 non - inflammatory lesions as well as an Investigator Global Assessment score of ‘ Moderate ’ .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
In Study 3 , 285 pediatric subjects 9 to 11 years of age were randomized to Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel or vehicle gel .
The median age of subjects was 11 years and 24 % were males .
At baseline , subjects had a minimum of 20 but not more than 100 total lesions ( inflammatory and / or non - inflammatory ) with an Investigator Global Assessment score of ' Moderate ' .
The efficacy results at week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In both Studies 1 and 2 the treatment effect was smaller in subjects with a small number of baseline lesions than in subjects with a large number of baseline lesions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * - That is , a mean percent increase of 13 . 2 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % is white to very pale yellow in color and opaque in appearance , and is supplied as follows : 45 gram pump NDC 66993 - 869 - 48 Storage and handling - Store at 25ºC ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) .
- Protect from light .
- Keep out of reach of children .
- Keep away from heat .
- Keep tube tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See FDA approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) ] Information for Patients - Advise patients to cleanse the area to be treated with a mild or soapless cleanser ; pat dry .
Apply Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel as a thin layer , avoiding the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
- Advise patients not to use more than the recommended amount and not to apply more than once daily as this will not produce faster results , but may increase irritation .
- Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging or burning .
- Advise patients to minimize exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps .
- Recommend the use of sunscreen products and protective apparel , ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided .
- Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel may bleach hair and colored fabric .
Patient Information Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % Important : For use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read this Patient Information leaflet about Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your treatment or your medical condition .
If you have any questions about Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
What is Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is a prescription medicine for skin use only ( topical ) used to treat acne vulgaris in people 9 years of age and older .
Acne vulgaris is a condition in which the skin has blackheads , whiteheads and pimples .
It is not known if Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is safe and effective in children younger than 9 years old .
What should I tell my doctor before using Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
Before you use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel , tell your doctor if you : • have other skin problems , including cuts or sunburn • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you use any other medicine for acne .
Using Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel with topical medicines that contain sulfur , resorcinol or salicylic acid may cause skin irritation .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
• Use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel is for skin use only .
Do not use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
• Apply Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel 1 time a day .
• Do not use more Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel than you need to cover the treatment area .
Using too much Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel or using it more than 1 time a day may increase your chance of skin irritation .
Applying Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel : • Wash the area where the gel will be applied with a mild cleanser and pat dry .
• Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel comes in a pump .
If you have been prescribed the : • Pump : Depress the pump to dispense a small amount ( about the size of a pea ) of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel and spread a thin layer over the affected area .
What should I avoid while using Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
• You should avoid spending time in sunlight or artificial sunlight , such as tanning beds or sunlamps .
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel can make your skin sensitive to sun and the light from tanning beds and sunlamps .
You should wear sunscreen and wear a hat and clothes that cover the areas treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel if you have to be in sunlight .
• You should avoid weather extremes such as wind and cold as this may cause irritation to your skin .
• You should avoid applying Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to cuts , abrasions and sunburned skin .
• You should avoid skin products that may dry or irritate your skin such as harsh soaps , astringents , cosmetics that have strong skin - drying effects and products containing high levels of alcohol .
• You should avoid the use of “ waxing ” as a hair removal method on skin treated with Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
• Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel may bleach your clothes or hair .
Allow Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to dry completely before dressing to prevent bleaching of your clothes .
What are the possible side effects of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel may cause serious side effects including : • Local skin reactions .
Local skin reactions are most likely to happen during the first 4 weeks of treatment and usually lessen with continued use of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Signs and symptoms of local skin reaction include : • Redness • Dryness • Swelling • Scaling • Stinging or burning Tell your doctor right away if these side effects continue for longer than 4 weeks or get worse , you may have to stop using Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 .
How should I store Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
• Store Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel at room temperature , 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel inside container and out of light and away from heat .
Keep Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel ?
Active ingredient : adapalene and benzoyl peroxide Inactive ingredients : acrylamide / sodium acryloydimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , poloxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water and sorbitan oleate Revised : February 2017 Marketed by : Prasco Laboratories , Mason , OH 45040 USA Manufactured by : G Production Inc . , Baie d ’ Urfé , QC , H9X 3S4 Canada Made in Canada .
P53525 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66993 - 869 - 48 Prasco Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide gel 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % PUMP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY P53623 - 0 Rx only NET WT .
45 g For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Usual dosage : Apply a thin film once a day to affected areas .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains Active : adapalene 0 . 1 % and benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in an aqueous gel consisting of Inactive : acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , poloxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sorbitan oleate .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° and 86 ° F ( 15 ° and 30 ° C ) .
Marketed by : Prasco Laboratories , Mason , OH 45040 USA Manufactured by : G Production Inc .
Baie d ’ Urfé , QC , H9X 3S4 Canada Made in Canada .
See lot number and expiration date below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
