Active ingredients ( per 5 mL ) Dextrose ( glucose ) 1 . 87 g Levulose ( fructose ) 1 . 87 g • Phosphoric acid 21 . 5 mg Purpose Upset Stomach Reliever Uses • ▪ For relief of upset stomach associated with nausea Warnings • ▪ this product contains fructose and should not be taken by persons with hereditary fructose intolerance ( HFI ) .
Do not use if you have • ▪ allergic reactions to any of the ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ diabetes Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ symptoms persist , return or get worse If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • ▪ for maximum effectiveness never dilute or drink fluids of any kind immediately before or after taking this product • ▪ repeat dose every 15 minutes or until distress subsides • ▪ do not take more than 5 doses in 1 hour without consulting a doctor • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided .
Dosing cup to be used with this product only .
Do not use with other products .
• ▪ mL = milliliter • age • dose • adults and children 12 years of age and over • 15 mL or 30 mL • children 2 to under 12 years of age • 5 ml or 10 mL Other information • • store at room temperature away from heat and direct light ; keep from freezing • • do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing Inactive ingredients FD & C red no . 40 , flavors , glycerin , methylparaben , purified water .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 NDC 70000 - 0052 - 1 Compare to the active ingredients EMETROL ® * Relief from Nausea Due to Upset Stomach Safe and Effective for Children and Adults • • No Antihistamines • • No Salicylates • • No Caffeine Natural Cherry Flavor 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) LEADER ™ Non - Drowsy Children Adult Nausea Relief Dextrose ( Glucose ) Levulose ( Fructose ) Phosphoric Acid Upset Stomach Reliever Cherry Flavor IMPORTANT : Keep this carton for future reference on full labeling .
Distributed by : * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Wellspring Pharmaceutical Corporation . , owner of the registered trademark Emetrol ® .
PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
