Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Ranitidine 75 mg ( as ranitidine hydrochloride 84 mg ) Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) • • do not chew tablet • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • avoid excessive heat or humidity • • this product is sodium and sugar free Inactive ingredients D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , FD & C red # 40 aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , titanium dioxide , triacetin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer information What you should know about Regular Strength Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg Acid Reducer ( Please read all of this information before taking Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg .
Save this leaflet for future reference . )
What are Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg ?
• • Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg contain 75 mg of ranitidine ( as ranitidine hydrochloride , 84 mg ) , a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Excellent Safety Record • • Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg have been used safely and effectively for years as an over - the - counter medication .
• • Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg are sodium and sugar free .
What symptoms do Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg relieve and prevent ?
• • Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg relieve and prevent heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach .
Certain foods or beverages , and even lying down to sleep , can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion or sour stomach .
It is normal for the stomach to produce acid , especially after consuming food or beverages .
However , acid in the wrong place , such as the esophagus , or too much acid , can cause burning pain and discomfort .
How should I take Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg ?
• • To relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
• • To prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn .
This medicine can be used up to twice daily ( do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours ) .
• • Do not chew tablet Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor .
• • Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers How do Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg work ?
• • Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg reduce the production of stomach acid .
This is what makes Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg different from antacids , which neutralize the acid already in your stomach .
Antacids do not reduce the production of acid .
Additional tips for managing heartburn • • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • • Do not eat late at night , or just before bedtime • • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty , and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , even some fruits and vegetables • • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • • If you are overweight , lose weight • • If you smoke , quit smoking • • Raise the head of your bed • • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach Clinical studies prove Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg are effective in relieving and preventing heartburn .
In clinical studies , Ranitidine Tablets , 75 mg were significantly better than placebo pills .
Percent of Heartburn Episodes Relieved [ MULTIMEDIA ] Percent of Patients with Prevention or Reduction of Heartburn Symptoms [ MULTIMEDIA ] When should I see a doctor ?
• • Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers • • Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Questions { or comments } ?
BOTTLES : Bottle is sealed with printed foil under cap .
Do not use if printed foil is open or torn .
BLISTERS : Do not use if the individual blister unit is open or torn .
Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 87600 00 J1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel REGULAR STRENGTH RANITIDINE 75 Ranitidine Tablets USP , 75 mg Acid Reducer PREVENTS AND RELIEVES HEARTBURN associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach COMPARE TO the active ingredient of ZANTAC ® 75 Actual Size 30 Tablets ( 30 Doses ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
