Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 1200 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
• Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away , • May stain some fabrics .
• Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face . Spray on hands then apply on face .
• do not apply in windy condition • use in well - ventilated area • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures , Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including • limit time in the sun especially from 10 . 00 a . m . - 2 . 00 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Isobutane , Water , Isohexadecane , Ethylhexyl Benzoate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Dibutyl Adipate , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Ethylhexyl Methoxycrylene , Sodium Chloride , PEG - 8 , Caprylyl Glycol , Glycerin , Sodium Citrate , PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Octyldodecanol , Retinyl Palmitate , Silica , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbic Acid , Sodium Propoxyhydroxypropyl Thiosulfate Silica , Phenoxyethanol , Methylparaben , Butylparaben , Ethylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Propylparaben .
Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 Principal Display Panel NDC 30142 - 655 - 34 Kroger FROM OUR FAMILY TO YOURS KIDS sunscreen 50 + Broad Spectrum SPF 50 + • Continuous Spray • Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) • Quick and Even Coverage • Hypoallergenic Tear Free NET WT .
6 OZ .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
