Warnings and Precautions , Photosensitivity ( 5 . 6 ) 09 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE QINLOCK is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) who have received prior treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitors , including imatinib .
QINLOCK is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) who have received prior treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitors , including imatinib .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage : 150 mg orally once daily with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of QINLOCK is 150 mg orally once daily with or without food until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Instruct patients to swallow tablets whole .
Advise patients to take QINLOCK at the same time each day .
Advise patients to take a missed dose if less than 8 hours have passed since the missed scheduled dose .
Advise patients not to take an additional dose if vomiting occurs after taking QINLOCK and to continue with their next scheduled dose .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dose reduction for adverse reactions is : • QINLOCK 100 mg orally once daily .
Permanently discontinue QINLOCK in patients who are unable to tolerate 100 mg orally once daily .
The recommended dosage modifications of QINLOCK for adverse reactions are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage Modifications for QINLOCK for Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction Severitya QINLOCK Dosage Modifications a Graded per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 . 03 ( NCI CTCAE v4 . 03 ) .
Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome ( PPES ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold QINLOCK until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline .
If recovered within 7 days , resume QINLOCK at same dose ; otherwise resume at reduced dose .
• Consider re - escalating QINLOCK if maintained at Grade ≤ 1 or baseline for at least 28 days .
• If PPES recurs , withhold QINLOCK until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline and then resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose regardless of time to improvement .
Grade 3 • Withhold QINLOCK for at least 7 days or until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline ( maximum 28 days ) .
Resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose .
• Consider re - escalating QINLOCK if maintained at Grade ≤ 1 or baseline for at least 28 days .
Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Grade 3 • If symptomatic , withhold QINLOCK until symptoms have resolved and blood pressure is controlled .
• If blood pressure is controlled to Grade ≤ 1 or baseline , resume QINLOCK at the same dose ; otherwise , resume QINLOCK at reduced dose .
• If Grade 3 hypertension recurs , withhold QINLOCK until symptoms have resolved and blood pressure is controlled .
Resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose .
Grade 4 Permanently discontinue QINLOCK .
Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue QINLOCK .
Arthralgia or Myalgia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 • Withhold QINLOCK until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline .
If recovered within 7 days , resume QINLOCK at same dose ; otherwise resume QINLOCK at reduced dose .
• Consider re - escalating QINLOCK if maintained at Grade ≤ 1 or baseline for at least 28 days .
• If arthralgia or myalgia recurs , withhold QINLOCK until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline and then resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose regardless of time to improvement .
Grade 3 • Withhold QINLOCK for at least 7 days or until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline ( maximum of 28 days ) .
Resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose .
• Consider re - escalating QINLOCK if maintained at Grade ≤ 1 or baseline for at least 28 days .
Other Adverse Reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 or 4 • Withhold QINLOCK until Grade ≤ 1 or baseline ( maximum 28 days ) , and then resume QINLOCK at a reduced dose ; otherwise permanently discontinue .
• Consider re - escalating QINLOCK if no recurrence of the adverse reaction for at least 28 days .
• If Grade 3 or 4 recurs , permanently discontinue QINLOCK .
2 . 3 Dose Modifications for Moderate CYP3A Inducers Avoid concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers during QINLOCK treatment .
If a moderate CYP3A inducer cannot be avoided , increase the QINLOCK dosing frequency from the recommended dose of 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily during the co - administration period .
Monitor for clinical response and tolerability .
If the concomitant moderate CYP3A inducer is discontinued , resume QINLOCK dosage back to 150 mg once daily 14 days after the discontinuation of the moderate CYP3A inducer .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 50 mg , white to off - white , oval shaped , debossed with “ DC1 ” on one side .
Tablets : 50 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome : Based on severity , withhold QINLOCK and resume at same or reduced dose .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • New Primary Cutaneous Malignancies : Perform dermatologic evaluations when initiating QINLOCK and routinely during treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypertension : Do not initiate QINLOCK in patients with uncontrolled hypertension and monitor blood pressure during treatment .
Based on severity , withhold QINLOCK and then resume at same or reduced dose or permanently discontinue .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Cardiac Dysfunction : Assess ejection fraction by echocardiogram or MUGA scan prior to initiating QINLOCK and during treatment , as clinically indicated .
Permanently discontinue QINLOCK for Grade 3 or 4 left ventricular systolic dysfunction .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) • Risk of Impaired Wound Healing : Withhold QINLOCK for at least 1 week prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer for at least 2 weeks after major surgery and until adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of QINLOCK after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
( 5 . 5 ) • Photosensitivity : May cause photosensitivity reactions .
Advise patients to limit direct ultraviolet exposure .
( 5 . 6 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome In INVICTUS , Grade 1 - 2 palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome ( PPES ) occurred in 21 % of the 85 patients who received QINLOCK [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
PPES led to dose discontinuation in 1 . 2 % of patients , dose interruption in 2 . 4 % of patients , and dose reduction in 1 . 2 % of patients .
Based on severity , withhold QINLOCK and then resume at same or reduced dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 New Primary Cutaneous Malignancies In INVICTUS , cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ( cuSCC ) occurred in 4 . 7 % of the 85 patients who received QINLOCK , with a median time to event of 4 . 6 months ( range : 3 . 8 to 6 months ) .
In the pooled safety population , cuSCC and keratoacanthoma occurred in 7 % and 1 . 9 % of patients , respectively .
In INVICTUS , melanoma occurred in 2 . 4 % of the 85 of patients who received QINLOCK .
In the pooled safety population , melanoma occurred in 0 . 9 % of patients .
Perform dermatologic evaluations when initiating QINLOCK and routinely during treatment .
Manage suspicious skin lesions with excision and dermatopathologic evaluation .
Continue QINLOCK at the same dose .
5 . 3 Hypertension In INVICTUS , Grade 1 - 3 hypertension occurred in 14 % of the 85 patients who received QINLOCK , including Grade 3 hypertension in 7 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Do not initiate QINLOCK in patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
Adequately control blood pressure prior to initiating QINLOCK .
Monitor blood pressure as clinically indicated during treatment with QINLOCK , and initiate or adjust antihypertensive therapy as appropriate .
Based on severity , withhold QINLOCK and then resume at same or reduced dose or permanently discontinue [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Cardiac Dysfunction In INVICTUS , cardiac failure occurred in 1 . 2 % of the 85 patients who received QINLOCK .
In the pooled safety population , cardiac dysfunction ( including cardiac failure , acute left ventricular failure , diastolic dysfunction , and ventricular hypertrophy ) occurred in 1 . 7 % of patients , including Grade 3 adverse reactions in 1 . 1 % .
In INVICTUS , Grade 3 decreased ejection fraction occurred in 2 . 6 % of the 77 patients who received QINLOCK and who had a baseline and at least one post - baseline echocardiogram .
In the pooled safety population , Grade 3 decreased ejection fraction occurred in 3 . 4 % of the 263 patients who received QINLOCK and who had a baseline and at least one post - baseline echocardiogram .
In INVICTUS , cardiac dysfunction led to dose discontinuation in 1 . 2 % of the 85 patients who received QINLOCK .
The safety of QINLOCK has not been assessed in patients with a baseline ejection fraction below 50 % .
Assess ejection fraction by echocardiogram or MUGA scan prior to initiating QINLOCK and during treatment , as clinically indicated .
Permanently discontinue QINLOCK for Grade 3 or 4 left ventricular systolic dysfunction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 5 Risk of Impaired Wound Healing Impaired wound healing complications can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) signaling pathway .
Therefore , QINLOCK has the potential to adversely affect wound healing .
Withhold QINLOCK for at least 1 week prior to elective surgery .
Do not administer for at least 2 weeks following major surgery and until adequate wound healing .
The safety of resumption of QINLOCK after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established .
5 . 6 Photosensitivity QINLOCK may cause photosensitivity reactions .
In all patients treated with QINLOCK in clinical trials ( n = 621 ) , photosensitivity reactions occurred in 0 . 6 % of patients .
Advise patients to limit direct ultraviolet exposure during treatment with QINLOCK and for at least one week after discontinuation of treatment .
5 . 7 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , QINLOCK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Oral administration of ripretinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in malformations primarily associated with the cardiovascular and skeletal systems , anatomic variations , decreased fetal body weight , and increased post - implantation loss at exposures approximately one half of the recommended dose of 150 mg once daily based on area under the curve ( AUC ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • New Primary Cutaneous Malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Cardiac Dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Photosensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were alopecia , fatigue , nausea , abdominal pain , constipation , myalgia , diarrhea , decreased appetite , palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia , and vomiting .
The most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 4 % ) were increased lipase and decreased phosphate .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Deciphera Pharmaceuticals , LLC , at 1 - 888 - 724 - 3274 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Unless otherwise specified , the pooled safety population described in the WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS reflect exposure to QINLOCK as a single agent in 351 patients with advanced solid tumors enrolled in either an open - label dose finding with cohort expansion trial or INVICTUS .
Among the patients who received QINLOCK in these trials , 52 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 21 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Patients Who Received Prior Treatment with Imatinib , Sunitinib and Regorafenib The safety of QINLOCK was evaluated in INVICTUS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients received QINLOCK 150 mg taken orally once daily ( n = 85 ) or placebo ( n = 43 ) .
Among the patients who received QINLOCK , 46 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 3 . 5 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 31 % of patients who received QINLOCK .
Serious adverse reactions that occurred in > 2 % of patients were abdominal pain ( 4 . 7 % ) , anemia ( 3 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 2 . 4 % ) , and vomiting ( 2 . 4 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 8 % of patients who received QINLOCK .
Adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation in ≥ 1 % of patients included general physical health deterioration ( 2 . 4 % ) , anemia ( 1 . 2 % ) , cardiac failure ( 1 . 2 % ) , PPES ( 1 . 2 % ) , and vomiting ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 24 % of patients who received QINLOCK .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption in > 2 % of patients included nausea ( 3 . 5 % ) , increased blood bilirubin ( 2 . 4 % ) , and PPES ( 2 . 4 % ) .
Dose reductions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 7 % of patients who received QINLOCK .
Adverse reactions resulting in a dose reduction in ≥ 1 . 2 % of patients were abdominal pain , agitation , alopecia , arthritis , dermatosis , gastrointestinal disorder , hyperesthesia , myalgia , PPES , and decreased weight .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) , were alopecia , fatigue , nausea , abdominal pain , constipation , myalgia , diarrhea , decreased appetite , PPES , and vomiting .
The most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 4 % ) were increased lipase and decreased phosphate .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions in INVICTUS .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Who Received QINLOCK in INVICTUS Adverse Reaction QINLOCK ( N = 85 ) Placebo ( N = 43 ) Grades 1 - 4 Grades 3 - 4 Grades 1 - 4 Grades 3 - 4 Skin and subcutaneous tissue Alopecia 52 0 4 . 7 0 Palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome 21 0 0 0 Dry skin 13 0 7 0 Pruritus 11 0 4 . 7 0 General Fatigue 42 3 . 5 23 2 . 3 Peripheral edema 17 1 . 2 7 0 Asthenia 13 1 . 2 14 4 . 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea 39 3 . 5 12 0 Abdominal pain 36 7 30 4 . 7 Constipation 34 1 . 2 19 0 Diarrhea 28 1 . 2 14 2 . 3 Vomiting 21 3 . 5 7 0 Stomatitis 11 0 0 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue Myalgia 32 1 . 2 12 0 Arthralgia 18 0 4 . 7 0 Muscle spasms 15 0 4 . 7 0 Metabolism and nutrition Decreased appetite 27 1 . 2 21 2 . 3 Investigations Decreased weight 19 0 12 0 Nervous system Headache 19 0 4 . 7 0 Vascular Hypertension 14 7 4 . 7 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal Dyspnea 13 0 0 0 Table 3 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in INVICTUS .
Table 3 : Select Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 10 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Who Received QINLOCK with a Difference Between Arms of > 5 % Compared to Placebo in INVICTUS CPK = creatine phosphokinase ; INR = international normalized ratio ; AST = aspartate aminotransferase ; ALT = alanine aminotransferase a .
The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 82 to 83 for QINLOCK and 34 to 40 for placebo based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
b . Only includes Grade 3 laboratory abnormalities .
Laboratory Abnormality QINLOCKa ( N = 85 ) Placeboa ( N = 43 ) Grades 1 - 4 Grades 3 - 4 b Grades 1 - 4 Grades 3 - 4 Hematology Increased activated partial thromboplastin time 35 0 9 0 Increased INR 21 3 . 8 15 0 Decreased neutrophil count 10 0 2 . 5 0 Chemistry Increased lipase 32 7 13 8 Decreased phosphate 26 4 . 9 2 . 5 0 Increased triglycerides 26 2 . 4 23 0 Decreased calcium 23 0 8 0 Increased blood bilirubin 22 0 5 2 . 5 Increased CPK 21 1 . 2 10 0 Decreased sodium 17 2 . 4 10 2 . 5 Increased creatinine 16 0 18 0 Increased serum amylase 13 1 . 2 5 0 Increased ALT 12 1 . 2 5 0 Other Adverse Reactions Clinically relevant adverse reactions that occurred in < 10 % of patients in the pooled safety population included cardiac ischemic events ( 1 . 1 % ) ( including acute coronary syndrome and fatal cardiac arrest or myocardial infarction ) .
Photosensitivity occurred in 0 . 6 % [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Monitor more frequently for adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • Strong CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers .
( 7 . 1 ) • Moderate CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers .
If a moderate CYP inducer cannot be avoided , increase ripretinib dose frequency to twice daily .
( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on QINLOCK Table 4 includes drug interactions that affect the pharmacokinetics of ripretinib .
Table 4 : Drug Interactions that Affect QINLOCK Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact • Coadministration of QINLOCK with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite ( DP - 5439 ) , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Prevention or Management • Monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions .
Strong and Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact • Coadministration of QINLOCK with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite ( DP - 5439 ) , which may decrease QINLOCK anti - tumor activity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Coadministration of QINLOCK with moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite ( DP - 5439 ) , which may decrease QINLOCK anti - tumor activity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Prevention or Management • Avoid concomitant use of QINLOCK with strong CYP3A inducers .
• Avoid concomitant use of QINLOCK with moderate CYP3A inducers .
If a moderate CYP3A inducer cannot be avoided , increase QINLOCK dosing frequency from the recommended dose of 150 mg once daily to 150 mg twice daily during the co - administration period .
Monitor for clinical response and tolerability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] , QINLOCK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on the use of QINLOCK in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
Administration of ripretinib to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in malformations primarily associated with the cardiovascular and skeletal systems , anatomic variations , reduced fetal body weight , and increased post - implantation loss at maternal exposures that were approximately equal to the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study investigating daily doses of ripretinib administered during the period of organogenesis in rats , ripretinib resulted in malformations primarily associated with the cardiovascular and skeletal systems , including interrupted or retroesophageal aortic arch and retroesophageal subclavian artery , fusion of the exoccipital bone to the first cervical vertebra , branched and fused ribs , anomalies of the cervical , thoracic , caudal , and sacral vertebrae , absent forepaw phalanges , and absent metacarpals at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately one half of the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ) .
An increased incidence of anatomic variations were also observed at 20 mg / kg / day .
Variations included malpositioned carotid and subclavian artery origins , malpositioned subclavian artery , absent or elongated innominate artery , misshapen and nodulated ribs , bipartite , incompletely ossified , or unossified vertebral centra , small or misshapen vertebral arches , and reductions in ossified forelimb and hindlimb phalanges , hindlimb metatarsals , and caudal vertebrae .
In a preliminary embryo - fetal development study investigating the administration of ripretinib in rabbits during the period of organogenesis , ripretinib resulted in total loss of pregnancy at doses of 150 mg / kg ( approximately 3 . 5 times the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ) .
At a dose of 40 mg / kg ( approximately 2 . 1 times the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ) , toxicities included increased post - implantation loss and decreased fetal body weights .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data regarding the presence of ripretinib or its metabolites in either human milk or its effects on a breastfed child or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential QINLOCK can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to the initiation of QINLOCK [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose .
Infertility Based on findings from animal studies , QINLOCK may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of QINLOCK in pediatric patients have not been established .
Animal Toxicity Data In 13 - week repeat - dose studies in rats there were dose - dependent findings of increased osteoblastic surface and decreased trabeculae of the femur at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately one half of the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ) .
There were additional findings of missing or discolored teeth that were accompanied by dose - dependent incisor degeneration at doses ≥ 30 mg / kg / day .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 85 patients in INVICTUS who received QINLOCK 150 mg orally once daily , 24 % were between 65 to 74 years of age and 9 % were 75 years of age or older .
Clinical studies of QINLOCK did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A , B , or C ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Ripretinib is a kinase inhibitor .
The chemical name of ripretinib is 1 - ( 4 - bromo - 5 - [ 1 - ethyl - 7 - ( methylamino ) - 2 - oxo - 1 , 2 - dihydro - 1 , 6 - naphthyridin - 3 - yl ] - 2 - fluorophenyl ) - 3 - phenylurea .
The molecular formula is C24H21BrFN5O2 and the molecular weight is 510 . 36 g / mol .
The chemical structure of ripretinib is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ripretinib is a white to off - white crystalline solid .
Ripretinib is a lipophilic , weak base , and practically insoluble in aqueous media .
QINLOCK is available as a white to off - white , oval tablets for oral use containing 50 mg of ripretinib .
The tablet is debossed with “ DC1 ” on one side .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , hypromellose acetate succinate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and silicon dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ripretinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits KIT proto - oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase ( KIT ) and platelet derived growth factor receptor A ( PDGFRA ) kinase , including wild type , primary , and secondary mutations .
Ripretinib also inhibits other kinases in vitro , such as PDGFRB , TIE2 , VEGFR2 , and BRAF .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Exposure - Response Relationships Ripretinib exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics have not been fully characterized .
Cardiac Electrophysiology No large mean increase in QTc interval ( i . e . > 20 ms ) was detected following treatment with QINLOCK at the recommended dose of 150 mg taken orally once daily .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ripretinib and its equally active metabolite ( DP - 5439 ) were characterized in clinical studies .
In patients with advanced malignancies , ripretinib AUC0 - 24 h increased proportionally over a dose range of 20 - 250 mg ( 0 . 13 to 1 . 67 times the recommended dose ) , but Cmax was less than dose proportional ; DP - 5439 Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h were less than dose proportional within the dose range of 50 - 250 mg ( 0 . 33 to 1 . 67 times the recommended dose ) .
No clinically significant differences in the Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h were observed between administration of QINLOCK with a high - fat meal ( 150 , 250 , and 500 - 600 calories from protein , carbohydrate , and fat , respectively ) and under fasted conditions .
The pharmacokinetic parameters of ripretinib and DP - 5439 are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Ripretinib and DP - 5439 a . Estimated based on cycle 1 , day 15 b .
After a single oral dose of 150 mg CV = coefficient of variation ; Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; AUC0 - 12 h = area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time zero to 12 hours ; AUC0 - 24 h = area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time zero to 24 hours ; Tmax = time to maximum concentration Parameter Ripretinib DP - 5439 General Information Steady state exposure following QINLOCK 150 mg once daily [ Mean ( CV % ) ] Cmax ( ng / mL ) 761 ( 32 ) 804 ( 46 ) AUC0 - 12 h ( ng • h / mL ) 5678 ( 32 ) 7138 ( 44 ) Time to steady state [ Days ] 14 14 Accumulation ratio ( AUC0 - 12 h ) [ Mean ( CV % ) ] a 1 . 7 ( 55 ) 5 . 29 ( 49 ) Absorption Tmax [ Median in hours ] b 4 15 . 6 Distribution Plasma protein binding ( in vitro ) Human serum albumin 99 . 8 % 99 . 7 % α - 1 acid glycoprotein 99 . 4 % > 99 . 8 % Steady state apparent volume of distribution , L [ Mean ( CV % ) ] b 307 ( 39 ) 507 ( 51 ) Elimination Apparent clearance , L / hr [ Mean ( CV % ) ] b 15 . 3 ( 45 ) 17 . 5 ( 63 ) Half - life , hours [ Mean ( CV % ) ] b 14 . 8 ( 30 ) 17 . 8 ( 23 ) Metabolism Metabolic pathways Major CYP3A4 CYP3A4 Minor CYP2C8 and CYP2D6 CYP2C8 , CYP2E1 and CYP2D6 Excretion Excretion pathways Feces 34 % 6 % Urine 0 . 02 % 0 . 1 % Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of ripretinib were observed based on age ( 19 to 87 years ) , sex , race ( White , Black , and Asian ) , body weight ( 39 to 138 kg ) , tumor ( GIST or other solid tumors ) , prior gastrectomy , mild to moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to < 90 mL / min estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , and mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN or total bilirubin 1 to 1 . 5 × ULN and AST any ) .
The effects of severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 to 29 mL / min ) on the pharmacokinetics of ripretinib have not been studied .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment In subjects with mild hepatic impairment , there were no clinically significant changes in AUC0 - last and Cmax when compared to matched healthy subjects .
In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment , ripretinib AUC0 - last increased 2 - fold while Cmax was unchanged when compared to matched healthy subjects .
The combined AUC0 - last of ripretinib and DP - 5439 increased 1 . 5 - fold .
In subjects with severe hepatic impairment , ripretinib AUC0 - last increased 2 . 6 - fold and Cmax decreased by 24 % when compared to matched healthy subjects .
The combined AUC0 - last of ripretinib and DP - 5439 increased by 1 . 4 - fold .
The observed magnitude of increase in ripretinib and the combination of ripretinib and DP - 5439 exposures in subjects with hepatic impairment is unlikely to be clinically relevant based on the known safety profile of ripretinib .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies and Model - Informed Approaches Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Coadministration of QINLOCK with itraconazole ( a strong CYP3A inhibitor and also a P - gp inhibitor ) increased ripretinib Cmax by 36 % and AUC0 - inf by 99 % and also increased DP - 5439 AUC0 - inf by 99 % with no change in its Cmax .
Strong CYP3A Inducers : Coadministration of QINLOCK with rifampin ( a strong CYP3A inducer ) decreased ripretinib Cmax by 18 % and AUC0 - inf by 61 % and also decreased DP - 5439 AUC0 - inf by 57 % with increased Cmax by 37 % .
Moderate CYP3A Inducers : Coadministration of QINLOCK with efavirenz ( a moderate CYP3A inducer ) was predicted to decrease ripretinib Cmax by 24 % and decrease AUC0 - inf by 56 % .
Proton Pump Inhibitors : No clinically significant differences in the plasma exposure to ripretinib and DP - 5439 were observed when QINLOCK was coadministered with pantoprazole ( a proton pump inhibitor ) .
In Vitro Studies CYP Enzymes : Ripretinib and DP - 5439 are inhibitors of CYP2C8 .
Ripretinib and DP - 5439 are not inducers of CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
Transporter Systems : Ripretinib is an inhibitor of P - gp ( P - glycoprotein ) and BCRP ( Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ) .
DP - 5439 is a substrate for P - gp and BCRP .
DP - 5439 is an inhibitor of BCRP and MATE1 ( Multidrug And Toxin Extrusion Protein 1 ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with ripretinib .
Ripretinib was not mutagenic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay or clastogenic in either an in vitro human lymphocyte culture micronucleus assay or an in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Dedicated fertility studies in male animals were not conducted with ripretinib .
Findings in male reproductive organs occurred in repeat - dose toxicity studies and included degeneration of the testes and cellular debris of the epididymis in males administered ≥ 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately one half of the human exposure at the recommended dose of 150 mg ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of QINLOCK was evaluated in INVICTUS , an international , multi - center , randomized ( 2 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial ( NCT03353753 ) .
Eligible patients had unresectable , locally advanced or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) and had received prior treatment with imatinib , sunitinib , and regorafenib .
Randomization was stratified by prior lines of therapy ( 3 versus ≥ 4 ) and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status ( 0 versus 1 or 2 ) .
Patients received QINLOCK 150 mg or placebo orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Tumor response assessments were performed every 28 days through for the first 4 months and then every 56 days thereafter .
The major efficacy outcome measure was progression - free survival ( PFS ) based on disease assessment by blinded independent central review ( BICR ) using modified RECIST 1 . 1 criteria , in which lymph nodes and bone lesions were not target lesions and a progressively growing new tumor nodule within a pre - existing tumor mass must meet specific criteria to be considered unequivocal evidence of progression .
Additional efficacy outcome measures included objective response rate ( ORR ) by BICR and overall survival ( OS ) .
Patients randomized to receive placebo could be treated with QINLOCK at the time of disease progression .
A total of 129 patients were randomized , 85 to QINLOCK and 44 to placebo .
Patient characteristics of the intent - to - treat ( ITT ) population in INVICTUS were median age of 60 years ( range : 29 to 83 years ) , with 39 % aged ≥ 65 years ; 57 % were male ; 75 % were White ; and 92 % had an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1 .
Sixty - three percent ( 63 % ) of patients received 3 prior therapies and 37 % received 4 or more prior therapies .
Sixty - six percent ( 66 % ) of patients randomized to placebo switched to QINLOCK after disease progression .
Efficacy results from INVICTUS are summarized in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Efficacy Results of INVICTUS BICR = Blinded Independent Central Review ; CI = Confidence Interval a . Assessed per BICR .
b . p - value is based on 2 - sided stratified log - rank test .
c . Hazard ratio is based on Cox proportional regression model .
This model includes treatment and randomization stratification factors as fixed factors .
d . Based on Fisher ' s exact test .
The p - value is not statistically significant .
e . Not evaluated for statistical significance as a result of the sequential testing procedure for the secondary endpoints of ORR and OS .
QINLOCK ( N = 85 ) Placebo ( N = 44 ) Progression - Free Survivala Number of events ( % ) 51 ( 60 ) 37 ( 84 ) Progressive disease 46 ( 54 ) 32 ( 73 ) Deaths 5 ( 6 ) 5 ( 11 ) Median PFS ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) 6 . 3 ( 4 . 6 , 6 . 9 ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 9 , 1 . 7 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) c 0 . 15 ( 0 . 09 , 0 . 25 ) p - valueb < 0 . 0001 Overall Response Ratea Overall Response Rate ( % ) 9 0 ( 95 % CI ) ( 4 . 2 , 18 ) ( 0 , 8 ) p - valued 0 . 0504 Overall Survival e Number of deaths ( % ) 26 ( 31 ) 26 ( 59 ) Median OS ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) 15 . 1 ( 12 . 3 , 15 . 1 ) 6 . 6 ( 4 . 1 , 11 . 6 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) c 0 . 36 ( 0 . 21 , 0 . 62 ) Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Curve of Progression - Free Survival in INVICTUS [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Kaplan - Meier Curve of Overall Survival in INVICTUS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING QINLOCK 50 mg tablets are white to off - white , oval shaped , and debossed with “ DC1 ” on one side .
• 90 - count bottles NDC 73207 - 101 - 30 Dispense to patient in original container only .
Store in the original container with the desiccant to protect from moisture and light .
Replace cap securely each time after opening .
Do not discard desiccant .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Palmar - Plantar Erythrodysesthesia Syndrome Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they experience severe skin changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
New Primary Cutaneous Malignancies Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for change in or development of new skin lesions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypertension Advise patients that hypertension may develop during treatment with QINLOCK and that blood pressure should be monitored regularly during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiac Dysfunction Advise patients that cardiac failure may develop during treatment with QINLOCK and that signs or symptoms of cardiac failure should be regularly monitored during treatment .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of cardiac dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Risk of Impaired Wound Healing Advise patients that QINLOCK may impair wound healing .
Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of any planned surgical procedure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Photosensitivity Inform patients that there is a potential risk of photosensitivity reactions with QINLOCK .
Advise patients to limit direct ultraviolet exposure by using sunscreen or protective clothing during treatment with QINLOCK [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males of reproductive potential that QINLOCK may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of all concomitant medications , including prescription medicines , over - the - counter drugs , vitamins , and herbal products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Instruct patients to take QINLOCK at the same time each day ( once daily ) with or without food .
Advise patients to swallow tablets whole .
Inform patients about what to do in the event they miss a dose or vomit after taking a dose of QINLOCK [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Storage Instructions Store QINLOCK in the original container at room temperature between 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) .
Manufactured for and marketed by : Deciphera Pharmaceuticals , LLC 200 Smith Street , Waltham , MA 02451 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 09 / 2022 Patient Information QINLOCK ® ( kin - lok ) ( ripretinib ) tablets What is QINLOCK ?
QINLOCK is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) who have received prior treatment with 3 or more kinase inhibitor medicines , including imatinib , for their GIST .
It is not known if QINLOCK is safe and effective in children .
Before taking QINLOCK , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • had a type of skin problem called palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome • have high blood pressure • have heart problems • had or plan to have surgery • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
QINLOCK can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider if you or your partner becomes pregnant or you think you may be pregnant during treatment with QINLOCK .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with QINLOCK .
• You should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with QINLOCK and for 1 week after the last dose .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that may be right for you .
Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant : • You should use effective birth control during treatment with QINLOCK and for at least 1 week after your final dose .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if QINLOCK passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with QINLOCK and for at least 1 week after your final dose .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
QINLOCK and certain other medicines can affect each other causing side effects or affect how QINLOCK works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
What should I avoid while taking QINLOCK ?
Your skin may be sensitive to the sun or other forms of light ( photosensitivity ) during treatment with QINLOCK .
Avoid or limit exposure to direct sunlight , sunlamps , and other sources of ultraviolet radiation during treatment and for at least 1 week after stopping treatment with QINLOCK .
Use sunscreen or wear clothes that cover your skin if you need to be out in the sun .
How should I take QINLOCK ?
• Take QINLOCK exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Your healthcare provider may temporarily or permanently stop treatment or change your dose of QINLOCK if you develop side effects during treatment .
• Do not change your dose or stop taking QINLOCK unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Take QINLOCK 1 time each day , at the same time each day .
• Take QINLOCK with or without food .
• Swallow QINLOCK tablets whole .
• If you vomit after taking a dose of QINLOCK , do not take an extra dose .
Take your next dose of QINLOCK at your scheduled time .
• If you miss a dose of QINLOCK , take it as soon as you remember if it is within 8 hours of the scheduled dose .
If more than 8 hours have passed , wait until your next scheduled dose .
• If you take more than the prescribed dose of QINLOCK , call your healthcare provider .
What are the possible side effects of QINLOCK ?
QINLOCK may cause serious side effects , including : • A skin problem called palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome .
Skin problems are common and sometimes can be severe .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop redness , pain , blisters , bleeding , or swelling on the palms of your hands or soles of your feet , or severe rash during treatment with QINLOCK .
• New skin cancers .
QINLOCK may cause skin cancers called cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma , keratoacanthoma , or melanoma .
Talk to your healthcare provider about your risk for these cancers .
Your healthcare provider should check your skin before and during treatment with QINLOCK to look for any new skin cancers .
Check your skin and tell your healthcare provider right away about any skin changes , including a : • new wart • skin sore or reddish bump that bleeds or does not heal • change in size or color of a mole • High blood pressure ( Hypertension ) .
High blood pressure is common with QINLOCK and can be severe .
Your healthcare provider should check your blood pressure regularly during treatment with QINLOCK .
• Heart problems .
Your healthcare provider should check you for signs or symptoms of heart failure before starting QINLOCK and regularly during treatment with QINLOCK .
Heart failure can be serious and can sometimes lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms during your treatment with QINLOCK : • tiredness • swelling of your stomach - area ( abdomen ) , legs or ankles • shortness of breath • protruding neck veins • Risk of wound healing problems .
Wounds may not heal well during treatment with QINLOCK .
Tell your healthcare provider if you plan to have any surgery before or during treatment with QINLOCK .
• Your healthcare provider should tell you when to stop taking QINLOCK before a planned surgery .
• Your healthcare provider should tell you when you may start taking QINLOCK again after surgery .
• Risk of sensitivity to sunlight ( photosensitivity ) .
See “ What should I avoid while taking QINLOCK ? ”
The most common side effects of QINLOCK include : • hair thinning or hair loss • nausea • constipation • diarrhea • vomiting • tiredness • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • muscle pain • decreased appetite QINLOCK may affect fertility in males which may affect the ability to have children .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
These are not all the possible side effects of QINLOCK .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store QINLOCK ?
• Store QINLOCK in the original container at room temperature between 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25ºC ) .
• QINLOCK comes with a desiccant packet in the bottle to protect your medicine from moisture .
Do not remove the desiccant packet from the bottle .
Keep QINLOCK and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of QINLOCK .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use QINLOCK for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give QINLOCK to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about QINLOCK that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in QINLOCK ?
Active ingredient : ripretinib Inactive ingredients : crospovidone , hypromellose acetate succinate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and silicon dioxide Manufactured for : Deciphera Pharmaceuticals , LLC , 200 Smith Street , Waltham , MA 02451 QINLOCK is a trademark of Deciphera , LLC .
All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners .
For more information , call 1 - 888 - 724 - 3274 or go to www . QINLOCK . com Principal Display Panel - 90 Tablet Carton Label NDC : 73207 - 101 - 30 Rx only QINLOCK ™ ( ripretinib ) tablets 50 mg Dispense the enclosed Patient Information Leaflet to each patient .
90 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
