Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine USP 10 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers .
Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 15 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • store at 25 ° - 30 ° C ( 77 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from moisture Inactive ingredients hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide red , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 , pregelatinized starch , talc , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Principal Display Panel Compare to Pepcid ® AC ® Active Ingredient * Original Strength Famotidine Tablets , 10 mg Acid Reducer • Just one tablet prevents and relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over after eating • Do not wear tight - fitting clothing around the stomach • Do not eat before bedtime • Raise the head of your bed • Avoid heartburn - causing foods such as rich , spicy , fatty or fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , and certain fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and avoid big meals • If overweight , lose weight • Quit smoking Distributed by : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc .
Bentonville , AR 72716 © Wal - mart Stores , Inc .
Product of India * This product is not manufactured or distributed by © McNeil Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co . , owner of the registered trademark Pepcid ® AC ® .
Product label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
