1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Taclonex ® Ointment is a vitamin D analogue and corticosteroid combination product indicated for the topical treatment of psoriasis vulgaris in adults 18 years of age and older ( 1 . 1 ) .
Limitations of Use : • Do not use on face , axillae or groin ( 1 . 2 ) • Do not use if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Indication Taclonex ® ( calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate ) Ointment is indicated for the topical treatment of psoriasis vulgaris in adults 18 years of age and older for up to 4 weeks .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use • Taclonex ® Ointment should not be applied to the face , axillae or groin .
• Taclonex ® Ointment should not be used if there is skin atrophy at the treatment site .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Taclonex ® Ointment to affected area ( s ) once daily for up to 4 weeks .
The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 100 g . Treatment of more than 30 % body surface area is not recommended ( 2 . 1 ) .
Taclonex ® Ointment is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
2 . 1 Usual Dosage and Administration Apply an adequate layer of Taclonex ® Ointment to the affected area ( s ) once daily for up to 4 weeks .
The maximum weekly dose should not exceed 100 g . Treatment of more than 30 % body surface area is not recommended .
Taclonex ® Ointment should be rubbed in gently and completely .
Patients should wash their hands after applying Taclonex ® Ointment .
Taclonex ® Ointment is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ointment .
Soft white ( off white to yellow ) paraffin based ointment with calcipotriene 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 064 % .
Ointment .
Soft white ( off - white to yellow ) paraffin based ointment with calcipotriene 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 064 % ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been reported .
If it occurs , discontinue treatment until parameters of calcium metabolism normalize ( 5 . 1 ) • Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome and unmask latent diabetes ( 5 . 2 ) • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for HPA axis suppression ( 5 . 2 ) • Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop ( 5 . 2 ) • Potent corticosteroids , use on large areas , prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption ( 5 . 3 ) • Local adverse reactions with topical steroids may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids ( 5 . 3 , 6 . 1 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids ( 5 . 2 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Calcium Metabolism Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been reported with use of Taclonex ® .
If hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria develop , treatment should be discontinued until parameters of calcium metabolism have normalized .
In the trials that included assessment of the effects of Taclonex ® Ointment on calcium metabolism , such testing was done after 4 weeks of treatment .
The effects of Taclonex ® Ointment on calcium metabolism following treatment durations of longer than 4 weeks have not been evaluated .
5 . 2 Effects on Endocrine System Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
HPA axis suppression has been observed with Taclonex ® Ointment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The effects of Taclonex ® Ointment on the HPA axis following treatment durations of longer than 4 weeks have not been adequately studied .
In a study of 32 subjects concomitantly treated with Taclonex ® Scalp Topical Suspension on the scalp and Taclonex ® Ointment on the body , adrenal suppression was identified in 5 of 32 subjects ( 15 . 6 % ) after 4 weeks of treatment [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 5 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Calcipotriene Allergic contact dermatitis has been observed with use of topical calcipotriene .
Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing .
5 . 6 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent .
If the infection persists , Taclonex ® Ointment should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 7 Skin Irritation If irritation develops , treatment with Taclonex ® Ointment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 8 Unevaluated Uses The safety and efficacy of Taclonex ® Ointment in patients with known or suspected disorders of calcium metabolism have not been evaluated .
The safety and efficacy of Taclonex ® Ointment in patients with erythrodermic , exfoliative , or pustular psoriasis have not been evaluated .
The safety and efficacy of Taclonex ® Ointment in patients with severe renal insufficiency or severe hepatic disorders have not been evaluated .
5 . 9 Ultraviolet Light Exposure Patients who apply Taclonex ® Ointment to exposed skin should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight , including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients who use Taclonex ® Ointment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are pruritus and scaly rash .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact LEO Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 494 - 4536 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Study Experience The data described below reflect exposure to Taclonex ® Ointment in 2448 subjects , including 1992 exposed for 4 weeks , and 289 exposed for 8 weeks .
Taclonex ® Ointment was studied primarily in placebo - and active - controlled trials ( N = 1176 , and N = 1272 , respectively ) .
The population was 15 - 97 years old , 61 % males and 39 % females , mostly white ( 97 % ) and had a baseline disease severity ranging from mild to very severe .
Most subjects received once daily application , and the median weekly dose was 24 . 5 g .
The percentage of subjects reporting at least one adverse event was 27 . 1 % in the Taclonex ® Ointment group , 33 . 0 % in the calcipotriene group , 28 . 3 % in the betamethasone group , and 33 . 4 % in the vehicle group .
Table 1 Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 1 % of Subjects by Preferred Term Taclonex ® Ointment N = 2448 Calcipotriene N = 3197 Betamethasone dipropionate N = 1164 Vehicle N = 470 Any Adverse Event 663 ( 27 . 1 ) 1055 ( 33 . 0 ) 329 ( 28 . 3 ) 157 ( 33 . 4 ) Preferred Term # of subjects ( % ) Pruritis 75 ( 3 . 1 ) 183 ( 5 . 7 ) 38 ( 3 . 3 ) 43 ( 9 . 1 ) Headache 69 ( 2 . 8 ) 75 ( 2 . 3 ) 44 ( 3 . 8 ) 12 ( 2 . 6 ) Nasopharyngitis 56 ( 2 . 3 ) 77 ( 2 . 4 ) 34 ( 2 . 9 ) 9 ( 1 . 9 ) Psoriasis 30 ( 1 . 2 ) 47 ( 1 . 5 ) 14 ( 1 . 2 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Rash scaly 30 ( 1 . 2 ) 40 ( 1 . 3 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 ( 0 . 2 ) Influenza 23 ( 0 . 9 ) 34 ( 1 . 1 ) 14 ( 1 . 2 ) 6 ( 1 . 3 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 20 ( 0 . 8 ) 19 ( 0 . 6 ) 12 ( 1 . 0 ) 3 ( 0 . 6 ) Erythema 15 ( 0 . 6 ) 54 ( 1 . 7 ) 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Application site pruritus 13 ( 0 . 5 ) 24 ( 0 . 8 ) 10 ( 0 . 9 ) 6 ( 1 . 3 ) Skin irritation 11 ( 0 . 4 ) 60 ( 1 . 9 ) 8 ( 0 . 7 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Pain 7 ( 0 . 3 ) 12 ( 0 . 4 ) 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Burning sensation 6 ( 0 . 2 ) 30 ( 0 . 9 ) 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 6 ( 1 . 3 ) A lesional / perilesional adverse event was generally defined as an adverse event located ≤ 2 cm from the lesional border .
Table 2 Lesional / Perilesional Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 1 % of Subjects Taclonex ® Ointment N = 2448 Calcipotriene N = 3197 Betamethasone dipropionate N = 1164 Vehicle N = 470 Any Adverse Event 213 ( 8 . 7 ) 419 ( 13 . 1 ) 85 ( 7 . 3 ) 76 ( 16 . 2 ) Preferred Term # of subjects ( % ) Pruritis 69 ( 2 . 8 ) 170 ( 5 . 3 ) 31 ( 2 . 7 ) 41 ( 8 . 7 ) Rash scaly 29 ( 1 . 2 ) 38 ( 1 . 2 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Application site pruritus 12 ( 0 . 5 ) 24 ( 0 . 8 ) 10 ( 0 . 9 ) 6 ( 1 . 3 ) Erythema 9 ( 0 . 4 ) 36 ( 1 . 1 ) 2 ( 0 . 2 ) 4 ( 0 . 9 ) Skin irritation 9 ( 0 . 4 ) 51 ( 1 . 6 ) 8 ( 0 . 7 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) Burning sensation 6 ( 0 . 2 ) 25 ( 0 . 8 ) 3 ( 0 . 3 ) 5 ( 1 . 1 ) For subjects who reported lesional / perilesional adverse events , the median time to onset was 7 days for Taclonex ® Ointment , 7 days for calcipotriene , 5 days for betamethasone dipropionate , and 3 days for vehicle .
Other less common reactions ( less than 1 % but more than 0 . 1 % ) were , in decreasing order of incidence , folliculitis , rash papular , rash pustular , and skin hypopigmentation .
Skin atrophy , telangiectasia and skin hyperpigmentation were reported infrequently ( 0 . 1 % ) .
In a separate study , subjects ( N = 207 ) with at least moderate disease severity were given Taclonex ® Ointment intermittently on an " as needed " basis for up to 52 weeks .
The median use was 15 . 4 g per week .
The effects of Taclonex ® Ointment on calcium metabolism were not studied and the effects on the HPA axis were not adequately studied .
The following adverse reactions were reported by 1 % or more of the subjects : pruritus ( 7 . 2 % ) , psoriasis ( 3 . 4 % ) , skin atrophy ( 1 . 9 % ) , folliculitis ( 1 . 4 % ) , burning sensation ( 1 . 4 % ) , skin depigmentation ( 1 . 4 % ) , ecchymosis ( 1 . 0 % ) , erythema ( 1 . 0 % ) and hand dermatitis ( 1 . 0 % ) .
One case of serious flare - up of psoriasis was reported .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Taclonex ® Ointment have been identified post - approval : pustular psoriasis and rebound effect .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Pregnant women were excluded from the clinical studies conducted with Taclonex ® Ointment .
Taclonex ® Ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the patient justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Taclonex ® Ointment .
Taclonex ® Ointment contains calcipotriene that has been shown to be fetotoxic and betamethasone dipropionate that has been shown to be teratogenic in animals when given systemically .
Teratogenicity studies with calcipotriene were performed by the oral route in rats and rabbits .
In rabbits , increased maternal and fetal toxicity were noted at a dosage of 12 mcg / kg / day ( 144 mcg / m2 / day ) ; a dosage of 36 mcg / kg / day ( 432 mcg / m2 / day ) resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of incomplete ossification of the pubic bones and forelimb phalanges of fetuses .
In a rat study , a dosage of 54 mcg / kg / day ( 324 mcg / m2 / day ) resulted in a significantly increased incidence of skeletal abnormalities ( enlarged fontanelles and extra ribs ) .
The enlarged fontanelles are most likely due to the effect of calcipotriene upon calcium metabolism .
The estimated maternal and fetal no - adverse effect levels ( NOAEL ) in the rat ( 108 mcg / m2 / day ) and rabbit ( 48 mcg / m2 / day ) derived from oral studies are lower than the estimated maximum topical dose of calcipotriene in man ( 460 mcg / m2 / day ) .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits when given by the subcutaneous route at doses of 156 mcg / kg / day ( 468 mcg / m2 / day ) and 2 . 5 mcg / kg / day ( 30 mcg / m2 / day ) , respectively .
Those dose levels are lower than the estimated maximum topical dose in man ( about 5950 mcg / m2 / day ) .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernia , exencephaly and cleft palate .
Two oral peri - and post - natal development studies were conducted with rats : Pregnant Wistar rats were dosed daily with calcipotriene at exposures of 0 , 6 , 18 or 54 mcg / kg / day from gestation day 15 through day 20 postpartum .
No remarkable effects were observed on any parameter , including survival , behavior , body weight , litter parameters , or the ability to nurse or rear pups .
Betamethasone dipropionate was evaluated for effects when orally administered to pregnant rats from gestation day 6 through day 20 postpartum at dosages of 0 , 100 , 300 , and 1000 mcg / kg / day .
Mean maternal body weight was significantly reduced on gestation day 20 in animals dosed at 300 and 1000 mcg / kg / day .
The mean duration of gestation was slightly , but statistically significantly , increased at 100 , 300 , and 1000 mcg / kg / day .
The mean percentage of pups that survived to day 4 was reduced in relation to dosage .
On lactation day 5 , the percentage of pups with a reflex to right themselves when placed on their back was significantly reduced at 1000 mcg / kg / day .
No effects on the ability of pups to learn were observed , and the ability of the offspring of treated rats to reproduce was not affected .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topically administered calcipotriene or corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Taclonex ® Ointment is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of the use of Taclonex ® Ointment in pediatric patients have not been studied .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children under the age of 12 years may be at particular risk of systemic adverse effects when they are treated with topical medication [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in the clinical studies of Taclonex ® Ointment , approximately 14 % were 65 years and older and approximately 3 % were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness of Taclonex ® Ointment were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
All other reported clinical experience has not identified any differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied Taclonex ® Ointment can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Taclonex ® Ointment contains calcipotriene hydrate and betamethasone dipropionate .
It is intended for topical use .
Calcipotriene hydrate is a synthetic vitamin D3 analogue .
Chemically , calcipotriene hydrate is ( 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E , 24 S ) - 24 - cyclopropyl - 9 , 10 - secochola - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1 ( alpha ) , 3 ( beta ) , 24 - triol , hydrate , with the empirical formula C27H40O3H2O , a molecular weight of 430 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcipotriene hydrate is a white to almost white crystalline compound .
Betamethasone dipropionate is a synthetic corticosteroid .
Betamethasone dipropionate has the chemical name 9 - fluoro - 11 ( beta ) , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 ( beta ) - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to almost white odorless powder .
Each gram of Taclonex ® Ointment contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of betamethasone ) in an ointment base of mineral oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , dl - alpha tocopherol and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Taclonex ® Ointment combines the pharmacological effects of calcipotriene hydrate as a synthetic vitamin D3 analogue and betamethasone dipropionate as a synthetic corticosteroid .
However , while their pharmacologic and clinical effects are known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in psoriasis vulgaris are unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstriction : In a vasoconstrictor study , the skin blanching response of Taclonex ® Ointment was consistent with that of a potent corticosteroid .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression : Taclonex ® Ointment was applied once daily for 4 weeks to adult subjects ( N = 12 ) with psoriasis vulgaris to study its effects on the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Of eleven subjects tested , none demonstrated adrenal suppression as indicated by a 30 - minute post - stimulation cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL .
However in another clinical study of Taclonex ® Ointment , one subject ( N = 19 ) demonstrated adrenal suppression .
HPA axis suppression was evaluated in adult subjects ( N = 32 ) with extenisve psoriasis involving at least 30 % of the scalp and , in total , 15 - 30 % of the body surface area .
Treatment consited of once daily application of Talconex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp in combination with Taclonex ® Ointment on the body .
Adrenal suppression as indicated by a 30 - minutes post - stimulation cortisol level less than or equal to 18 mcg / dL was observed in 5 of 32 subjects ( 15 . 6 % ) after 4 weeks of treatment as per the recommended duration of use ( see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) .
Effects on Calcium Metabolism In the combination use study described above , the effects of once daily application of Taclonex ® Ointment on the body in combination with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp on calcium metabolism were also examined .
Elevated urinary calcium levels outside the normal range were observed in 1 of 35 subjects ( 2 . 9 % ) after 4 weeks of treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The systemic effect of Taclonex ® Ointment in extensive psoriasis was investigated in the study described above .
In this study , the serum levels of calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate and their major metabolites were measured after 4 weeks ( maximum recommended duration of treatment ) and also after 8 weeks of once daily application of Taclonex ® Ointment on the body in combination with Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension on the scalp .
Both calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate were below the lower limit of quantification in all serum samples of the 34 subjects evaluated .
However , one major metabolite of calcipotriene ( MC1080 ) was quantifiable in 10 of 34 ( 29 . 4 % ) subjects at week 4 and in five of 12 ( 41 . 7 % ) subjects at week 8 .
The major metabolite of betamethasone dipropionate , betamethasone 17 - propionate ( B17P ) was also quantifiable in 19 of 34 ( 55 . 9 % ) subjects at week 4 and seven of 12 ( 58 . 3 % ) subjects at week 8 .
The serum concentrations for MC1080 ranged from 20 - 75 pg / mL .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Metabolism Calcipotriene : Calcipotriene metabolism following systemic uptake is rapid and occurs in the liver .
The primary metabolites of calcipotriene are less potent than the parent compound .
Calcipotriene is metabolized to MC1046 ( the alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone analogue of calcipotriene ) , which is metabolized further to MC1080 ( a saturated ketone analogue ) .
MC1080 is the major metabolite in plasma .
MC1080 is slowly metabolized to calcitroic acid .
Betamethasone dipropionate : Betamethasone dipropionate is metabolized to betamethasone 17 - propionate and betamethasone , including the 6 beta - hydroxy derivatives of those compounds by hydrolysis .
Betamethasone 17 - propionate ( B17P ) is the primary metabolite .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility When calcipotriene was applied topically to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 3 , 10 and 30 mcg / kg / day ( corresponding to 9 , 30 and 90 mcg / m2 / day ) , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
In a study in which albino hairless mice were exposed to both ultra - violet radiation ( UVR ) and topically applied calcipotriene , a reduction in the time required for UVR to induce the formation of skin tumors was observed ( statistically significant in males only ) , suggesting that calcipotriene may enhance the effect of UVR to induce skin tumors .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Calcipotriene did not elicit any genotoxic effects in the Ames mutagenicity assay , the mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , or the mouse micronucleus test .
Betamethasone dipropionate did not elicit any genotoxic effects in the Ames mutagenicity assay , the mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , or in the rat micronucleus test .
Studies in rats with oral doses of up to 54 mcg / kg / day ( 324 mcg / m2 / day ) of calcipotriene indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
Studies in male rats at oral doses of up to 200 mcg / kg / day ( 1200 mcg / m2 / day ) , and in female rats at oral doses of up to 1000 mcg / kg / day ( 6000 mcg / m2 / day ) , of betamethasone dipropionate indicated no impairment of fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Controlled Clinical Studies In an international , multi - center , double - blind , vehicle - and active - controlled , parallel - group study , 1603 subjects with mild to very severe psoriasis vulgaris on trunk and limbs were treated once daily for 4 weeks .
Subjects were randomized to one of four treatment arms : Taclonex ® Ointment , calcipotriene hydrate 50 mcg / g in the same vehicle , betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 64 mg / g in the same vehicle , and vehicle alone .
The mean age of the subjects was 48 . 4 years and 60 . 5 % were male .
Most subjects had disease of moderate severity at baseline .
Efficacy was assessed as the proportion of subjects with absent or very mild disease according to the Investigator ' s Global Assessment of Disease Severity at end of treatment ( 4 weeks ) .
" Absent " disease was defined as no evidence of redness , thickness , or scaling .
" Very mild disease " was defined as controlled disease , but not entirely cleared : lesions with some discoloration with absolutely minimal thickness , i . e . the edges to the lesions ( s ) could just be felt .
Table 3 contains the response rates for this trial .
Table 3 Percentage of Subjects with Absent or Very Mild Disease According to the Investigator ' s Global Assessment of Disease Severity at End of Treatment ( 4 weeks ) .
* Taclonex ® Ointment N = 490 Calcipotriene N = 480 Betamethasone dipropionate N = 476 Vehicle N = 157 Absent or very mild disease 48 . 0 % 16 . 5 % 26 . 3 % 7 . 6 % * Subjects with mild disease at baseline were required to have " Absent " disease to be considered a success .
In addition to the pivotal study ( N = 490 ) , four randomized , double - blind , vehicle - or active - controlled , parallel - group studies were conducted and provided supportive evidence of efficacy .
These studies included a total of 1058 subjects treated with Taclonex ® Ointment once daily for up to 4 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Taclonex ® Ointment is available in collapsible tubes of : 60 gram ( NDC 54868 - 5680 - 0 ) 16 . 2 Storage Store Taclonex ® Ointment between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
16 . 3 Handling Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 5 ) ] This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Patients using Taclonex ® Ointment should receive the following information and instructions .
17 . 1 Instructions for Use This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the face or eyes .
As with any topical medication , patients should wash hands after application .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it has been prescribed .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered as to be occlusive , unless directed by the physician .
17 . 2 Adverse Reactions Patients should report any signs of adverse reactions to their physician .
17 . 3 Concomitant Use of Other Corticosteroids Other products containing calcipotriene or a corticosteroid should not be used with Taclonex ® Ointment without first talking to the physician .
17 . 4 Excessive Exposure to Light Patients who apply Taclonex ® Ointment to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients who use Taclonex ® Ointment .
17 . 5 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Patient Information Taclonex ® Ointment ( pronounced TAK - lo - NEKS ) ( calcipotriene 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 064 % ) Read the Patient Information that comes with Taclonex ® Ointment before you start using it and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or treatment .
Important information : Taclonex ® Ointment is for use on the skin only ( topical use only ) .
Do not use Taclonex ® Ointment on the face , under arms or on groin area .
Do not swallow Taclonex ® Ointment .
Another product , Taclonex Scalp ® Topical Suspension contains the same medicine that is in Taclonex ® Ointment and is used to treat psoriasis vulgaris on the scalp .
If you use both medicines to treat your psoriasis vulgaris , be sure to follow your doctor ’ s directions carefully so that you do not use too much of one or both of these medications .
What is Taclonex ® Ointment ?
Taclonex ® Ointment is a prescription medicine that is for use on the skin only ( a topical medicine ) .
Taclonex ® Ointment is used to treat psoriasis vulgaris in adults 18 years of age and older .
Taclonex ® Ointment is not recommended for use in children .
Taclonex ® Ointment has not been studied in patients under the age of 18 .
Who should not use Taclonex ® Ointment ?
Do not use Taclonex ® Ointment if you : • have a calcium metabolism disorder • have one of the following types of psoriasis : o erythrodermic psoriasis o exfoliative psoriasis o pustular psoriasis • have severe kidney or liver disease • are allergic to anything in Taclonex ® Ointment .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
What should I tell my doctor before using Taclonex ® Ointment ?
Tell your doctor about all of your health conditions , including if you : • have a skin infection .
Your skin infection should be treated before starting Taclonex ® Ointment .
• have thin - skin ( atrophy ) at the site to be treated .
You should not use Taclonex ® Ointment .
• are getting phototherapy treatments ( light therapy ) for your psoriasis .
• are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Taclonex ® Ointment can harm your unborn baby .
You and your doctor will have to decide if Taclonex ® Ointment is right for you while pregnant .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if Taclonex ® Ointment passes into your milk and if it can harm your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription , and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Taclonex ® Ointment and some other medicines can interact with each other .
Especially tell your doctor if you use : • other corticosteroid medicines • other medicines for your psoriasis How should I use Taclonex ® Ointment ?
• Use Taclonex ® Ointment exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Do not use more than the maximum recommended weekly amount of 100 grams of Taclonex ® Ointment .
• Apply Taclonex ® Ointment once a day to the areas of your skin affected by psoriasis .
Gently rub Taclonex ® Ointment into your affected skin areas .
• Only use Taclonex ® Ointment as directed by your doctor .
Taclonex ® Ointment is recommended for up to 4 weeks of treatment .
Do not use Taclonex ® Ointment for more than 4 weeks unless prescribed by your doctor .
• Do not use Taclonex ® Ointment on the face , under arms or on groin area .
If you accidentally get Taclonex ® Ointment on the face or in the eyes wash the area with water right away .
• If you forget to use Taclonex ® Ointment , use it as soon as you remember .
Then go on as before .
• Wash your hands well after applying Taclonex ® Ointment .
Using Taclonex ® Ointment : Do not bandage or tightly cover the treated skin area .
Remove the cap and check that the aluminum seal covers the tube before the first use .
To break the seal , turn the cap over and punch through the seal .
What should I avoid while using Taclonex ® Ointment ?
Avoid spending a long time in the sunlight .
Avoid tanning booths and sunlamps .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
Talk to your doctor if you get a sunburn .
What are the possible side effects of Taclonex ® Ointment ?
The most common side effects are : • itching • rash Other less common side effects with Taclonex ® Ointment include : • redness of the skin • skin irritation • skin burning • inflamed hair pores ( folliculitis ) • change of skin color ( at the site of application ) • rash with pus - filled papules • thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) • swollen fine blood vessels ( this makes your skin appear red at the site of application ) Taclonex ® Ointment may cause serious side effects .
Serious side effects are more likely to happen if you use too much Taclonex ® Ointment , use it for too long , or use it with other topical medicines that contain corticosteroids , calcipotriene , or certain other ingredients .
Check with your doctor before using other topical medicines .
Taclonex ® Ointment can pass through your skin .
Serious side effects may include : • too much calcium in your blood or urine • adrenal gland problems Your doctor may do special blood and urine tests to check your calcium levels and adrenal gland function while you are using Taclonex ® Ointment .
Call your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the side effects with Taclonex ® Ointment .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I store Taclonex ® Ointment ?
• Store Taclonex ® Ointment between 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted between 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
• Make sure the cap on the tube is tightly closed .
• Taclonex ® Ointment has an expiration date ( exp . )
marked on the tube .
Do not use the ointment after this date .
• Keep Taclonex ® Ointment and all medicines out of the reach of children and pets .
General information about Taclonex ® Ointment Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use Taclonex ® Ointment for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Taclonex ® Ointment to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Taclonex ® Ointment .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Taclonex ® Ointment that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Taclonex ® Ointment ?
Active ingredients : calcipotriene hydrate , betamethasone dipropionate .
Inactive ingredients : mineral oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , dl - alpha tocopherol , white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : LEO Laboratories Ltd . ( LEO Pharma ) Dublin , Ireland Distributed by : LEO Pharma Inc .
1 Sylvan Way , Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA 1 - 877 - 494 - 4536 U . S . Patent Nos . : RE39 , 706 E and 6 , 753 , 013 .
024598 - 01 024599 - 01 Revised : 11 / 2010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions , Hypercalciuria ( 5 . 1 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 5680 - 0 TACLONEX ® ( calcipotriene 0 . 005 % and betamethasone dipropionate 0 . 064 % ) Ointment Rx Only For Topical Use Only Net Wt .
60 g Each gram contains 52 . 18 mcg of calcipotriene hydrate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of calcipotriene ) and 0 . 643 mg of betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mcg of betamethasone ) in an ointment base of mineral oil , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , dl - alpha tocopherol and white petrolatum .
Store Taclonex Ointment between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Usual Dosage : Apply once daily , or as directed by physician .
See Insert for complete information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
