Drug Facts Active ingredient [ s ] Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Antibacterial Use [ s ] • For Personal Hand Hygiene to help prevent the spread of bacteria .
• Use when soap and water are not available after changing diapers , assisting ill persons , and before contact with a person under medical care or treatment .
• Recommended for repeat use .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • Do not use in the eyes .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops .
In condition persists for more than 72 hours consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product .
Other information • Store in a cool dry place Inactive ingredients Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Polysorbate 20 , Glycerin , Potassium Sorbate , Fragrance , Citric Acid , Disodium EDTA , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) • Kills 99 . 99 % of Germs !
• Easily Removes Dirt • Alcohol & Bleach Free PERFECT FOR CLEANING WHILE AWAY FROM SOAP AND WATER !
Shopping School Automotive Restaurants Office Movie Theaters Transport Gym Air Travel Sporting Events Manufactured for EST , Inc . 15785 S . Keeler Terrace , Olathe , KS 66062 Tel : 913 - 764 - 4900 Fax : 913 - 764 - 4901 www . estchemcials . com • Kills 99 . 99 % of Germs • Wet wipes cleaners and sanitizers • Designed to use in health facilities , health clubs , schools and wherever germs are present .
• Board Certified Dermatologist Tested & Approved as a non - sensitizer nor irritant to skin .
DIRECTIONS FOR DISPENSING : Pull the first towel from the center of the roll approximately 6 – 8 inches .
Place bag in the dispenser and at the same time feed the first towel through the opening on the dispenser .
DISPOSAL : Offer empty container for recycling .
If recycling is not available , discard container in trash .
Discard towel in the trash after use .
Do not flush wipe .
CAUTION : May irritate eyes .
See side panel for further precaution and first aid instructions .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
