ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Alcohol 3 . 0 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Onsen - Sui , Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Acrylates / Beheneth - 25 Methacrylate Copolymer , Disodium Coco - Glucoside Citrate , Decyl Glucoside , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Origanum Vulgare Extract , Cinnamomum Cassia Bark Extract , Sophora Angustifolia Root Extract , Hippophae Rhamnoides Extract , Larix Sibirica Wood Extract , Chrysanthellum Indicum Extract , Rheum Palmatum Root / Stalk Extract , Asarum Sieboldi Root Extract , Quercus Mongolia Leaf Extract , Persicaria Hydropiper Extract , Illicium Verum ( Anise ) Fruit Extract , Corydalis Turtschaninovii Root Extract , Coptis Japonica Root Extract , Machilus Thunbergii Bark Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Extract , Origanum Vulgare Leaf / Flower / Stem Extract , Thymus Vulgaris ( Thyme ) Extract , Potassium Hydroxide , Panax Ginseng Callus Extract , Propanediol , Polyglyceryl - 10 Laurate , Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract , Polyglucuronic Acid , Lactuca Indica Extract , Corydalis Ochotensis Extract , Draba Nemorosa Extract , Chenopodium Album Flower Extract , Lactobacillus / Soybean Ferment Extract , Salix Alba ( Willow ) Bark Extract , Cinnamomum Cassia Bark Extract , Origanum Vulgare Leaf Extract , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Leaf Extract , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Oil , Menthol , RH - Oligopeptide - 1 , Chlorhexidine Digluconate PURPOSE Purpose : Sanitizer WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only 1 .
Please discontinue use immediately in the event that you experience any of the following side effects from using this product , and consult a dermatologist as the symptoms may get worse with continued use .
( a ) Adverse skin reactions occur upon its application which may involve red spots , swelling , itchiness , and other skin irritation .
( b ) The applied part shows signs of any of the symptoms mentioned above after exposure to the direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not apply to wounds and the area affected by dermatitis , eczema , and other irritations .
3 .
Precautions for handling and storage ( a ) Always close the cap after each use .
( b ) Always keep the product out of the reach of infants .
( c ) Do not store the product in high and low temperatures .
It should also be kept out of direct sunlight .
4 .
Persists consult your doctor or pharmacist .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Always keep the product out of the reach of infants .
Uses Uses : It is a necessity for men to help to keep it clean and comfortable from the discomfort caused by the moisture and sweat of the male groin .
Directions Directions : Wet your groin areas thoroughly with running water ( preferably mild in temperature ) .
Apply a suitable amount ( 1 - 3 g ) evenly to the region and massage gently .
Rinse thoroughly in clean , lukewarm water .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
