Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Uses • ▪ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • ▪ temporarily relieves : • ▪ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • ▪ the intensity of coughing • ▪ the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • ▪ for children under 12 years of age • ▪ if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • ▪ do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • ▪ cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 2222 .
Directions • ▪ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided • ▪ do not use dosing cup with other products • ▪ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • ▪ mL = milliliter • ▪ Adults and children 12 years and older : 20 mL every 4 hours • ▪ Children under 12 years of age : Do not use Other information • ▪ each 20 mL contains : sodium 8 mg • ▪ store at room temperature • ▪ do not refrigerate • ▪ dosing cup provided • ▪ low sodium Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , propyl gallate , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 180 mL Bottle Label LEADER NDC 70000 - 0129 - 1 Maximum Strength Mucus Relief DM Dextromethorphan HBr ǀ Guaifenesin Cough Suppressant ǀ Expectorant COMPARE TO MAXIMUM STRENGTH MUCINEX ® FAST MAX ® DM MAX active ingredients * 100 % Money back Guarantee For Ages 12 + • • Controls Cough • • Relieves Chest Congestion • • Thins & Loosens Mucus • • 4 Hour Dosing • • Maximum Strength Formula 6 FL OZ ( 180 mL ) Tamper evident : do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing .
© 2017 Cardinal Health , All Rights Reserved , CARDINAL HEALTH , the Cardinal Health LOGO , LEADER , and the Leader LOGO are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
All other marks are the property of their respective owners DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Essential to care ™ since 1979 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , owner of the registered trademarks Maximum Strength Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® DM Max .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
