Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine , genital and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • If condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching : • adults : when practical cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• children under 12 years of age with external anal itching : consult a doctor .
Other information store at controlled room temperature 68 ° - 77ºF ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , Benzyl alcohol , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetearyl alcohol , Cetyl palmitate , Glycerin , Isopropyl myristate , Isostearyl neopentanoate , Methylparaben , PEG - 40 stearate , Propylene glycol , Purified water Principal Display Panel – Can Label Welly First Aid Itch Fix NDC 72663 - 155 - 50 Hydrocortisone 1 % Anti - itch Cream 2 tubes - 0 . 57 oz ( 16 g ) Total Net Wt 1 . 14 oz ( 32 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 0 . 57 oz Tube Label NDC 72663 - 155 - 50 Welly First Aid Itch fix Hydrocortisone 1 % Anti - itch Cream Net Wt .
0 . 57 oz ( 16 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
