GET READY FOR WELLNESS Reach for this convenient trio of oil blends to support your wellness , naturally .
Kit Contains 3 popular saje oil blends : FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub SWEET COMFORT antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub inhale SOOTHING OIL BLEND FOR DEEP BREATHING IMPORTANT : FOR EACH PRODUCT , READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION ON OUTER AND INNER BOX FLAP BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS PACKAGE FOR FULL INFORMATION .
Distributed by : SAJE NATURAL WELLNESS | 500 - 88 E . Pender St . Vancouver , BC Canada , V6A 3X3 | saje . com | 1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 | Made by our friends in Canada LIFT HERE TO CONTINUE TO READ IMPORTANT PRODUCT INFORMATION ON ALL OIL BLENDS DO NOT USE IF SECURITY SEAL AROUND BOTTLES IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
We support recycling .
Please recycle where possible SKU 22250001 FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 7 % Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Uses Temporarily calms cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants .
Relieves the impulse to cough to help you rest .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not that by mouth or place in nostrils .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure Ask doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • See important warnings under ' When using this product ' • Adults and children 12 years or older : • rub on throat and chest in a thick layer • cover with warm cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other information Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Inactive ingredients Cinnamon oil , eucalyptus oil , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , pelargonium graveolens oil , peppermint oil , pine needle oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
Fortify antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Apply to the following areas , as directed : A - Throat B - Chest SWEET COMFORT antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 76 % Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Uses Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold or inhaled irritants .
Suppresses your cough to help you get to sleep .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not take by mouth or place in nostrils .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Ask doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) • epilepsy When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
• sun tan / use tanning beds for 3 - 4 days after use Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition If pregnant of breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • See important warnings under ' When using this product ' • Adults and children 12 years and older : • rub on the throat and chest in a thick layer • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other information • Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Inactive ingredients Benzoin , lavender oil , lemon oil , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , olibanum , peppermint oil , pine needle oil , and prunus armeniaca ( apricot ) kernel oil Sweet Comfort antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Apply to the following areas , as directed : A - Throat B - Chest SOOTHING OIL BLEND INHALE soothing oil blend for deep breathing Directions for use : Used in aromatherapy to promote peaceful breaths .
Apply to forehead and sinus areas , avoiding eyes and mucous membranes .
Use on skin to soothe dry areas or add 10 - 20 drops to a bath .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : Vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , citrus limon ( lemon ) peel oil , pelargonium graveolens oil , commiphora myrrha oil , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , and anthemis nobilis flower oil .
Warnings : Keep out of reach of children .
For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
If epileptic , consult a doctor before use .
Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding .
If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
Phototoxic ; do not sun tan / use tanning beds for 3 - 4 days after use .
Apply to the following areas : A - Forehead B - Sinus Area COMFORT & EASE oil blend convenience kit 2 ANTITUSSIVE ( COUGH SUPPRESSANT ) OIL BLEND RUBS X 0 . 2 FL .
OZ .
| 6 mL EA 1 OIL BLEND 0 . 2 FL .
OZ .
| 6 mL Saje ® Natural Wellness [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
