Carton active ingredient section Active ingredients Octinoxate 5 % Purpose sunscreen .
Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn .
if used with as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Centre right away .
Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes bfore sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours .
use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Storage Other information - protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Cyclopentasiloxane , Aqua ( Water ) Isononyl isononanoate , Glycerin , Silica , Pheny trimethicone , Mica , Dimethicone , Arachidyl propionate , Talc , Titanium dioxide , Disteardimonium hectorite , PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 dimethicone , Alcohol denat . , Tocopheryl acetate , Hexyl laurate , Polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , Propylene carbonate , Methylparaben , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Dimethylmethoxychromanol , Tetasodium EDTA , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Polysorbate 20 , Potasium hyroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , BHT , Ethylhexylglycerin , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl Tetrapeptide - 7 .
May contain CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) .
Description Renewed radiance .
Gain the immediate appearance of complexion perfection with our light diffusing formula that evens out skin tone .
Minimises the appearance of fine lines for younger looking skin .
Our Pro - retinol complex containing Lipopeptides boosts and maintain elasticity .
Our powerful antioxidant complex and SPF 15 help protect against the ageing effects of free radicals .
For Best Results : Shake before use .
Blend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Do not store above 30 degrees C or 86 degrees F . Hypo - allergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our foundation products are hypo - allergenic so they are kind to even the most sensitive skin .
INFORMATION The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG3 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . boots . com .
Bottle label No7 Protect and Perfect Foundation Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Younger looking skin Hypo - allergenic 30 ml 1 US Fl Oz Active ingredients Octinoxate 5 % .
Warnings Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Smoothes and moisturises for younger looking skin and a flawless , radiant complexion .
For Best Results : Shake before use .
Blend on smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dis by Boots Retail USA InC Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . boots . com .
carton label carton label1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
