[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine USP , 10 mg / 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • For Famotidine 10 mg : • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 15 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor • For Famotidine 20 mg : • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture and light Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , synthetic red iron oxide ( only in 10 mg ) , talc and titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over after eating • Do not wear tight - fitting clothing around the stomach • Do not eat before bedtime • Raise the head of your bed • Avoid heartburn - causing foods such as rich , spicy , fatty or fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol and certain fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and avoid big meals • If overweight , lose weight • Quit smoking Famotidine 10 mg Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Famotidine 20 mg Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
