Active ingredient Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 07 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product only Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 years & older : rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls ) twice a day • do not swallow • children 6 years to under 12 years of age : supervise use • when used after brushing , rinse mouth with water first • children under 6 yearsof age : do not use Other information • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , flavor , poloxamer 188 , sodium saccharin , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sucralose , benzoic acid , blue 1 Questions Call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Alcohol Free Multi - Action Antiseptic Oral Rinse Sealed with printed Neckband for your protection This rinse may cause temporary staining to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful , and adequate brushing may prevent its occurrence .
Statisfaction guaranteed .
For questions or comments please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
Distributed by Wal - Mart Stores .
INC Bentonville AR72716 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble distributor of Crest Pro - Health Rinse Multi - Protection Alcohol Free Rinse - Refreshing Clean Mint principal display panel Equate Compare to Crest Pro - Health Rinse Multi - Protection Active Ingredient Alcohol Free Multi - Action Oral Rinse Antigingivitis / Antiplaque 2 X / Day Protection • Kills germs • Helps prevent plaque • Helps prevent gingivitis • Helps keep teeth feeling clean • Freshens breath • No burn of alcohol Zesty Mint Use morning & night for better oral hygiene 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
