Drug Facts Active ingredient Minoxidil , USP 5 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men • In clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 to 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men provided more hair regrowth than minoxidil topical solution 2 % • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol ( 30 % v / v ) , propylene glycol ( 50 % v / v ) , purified water Questions ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Men ' s Rogaine ®†† Minoxidil Topical Solution , USP 5 % , USP 5 % HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT For Men Topical Solution Unscented Extra Strength • Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth • Clinically proven to help regrow hair • For best results , apply directly to scalp twice daily mL ( FL OZ ) BOTTLE †† This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Rogaine ® .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
