Warnings and Precautions : • Worsening Exacerbation of Asthma ( 5 . 4 ) 8 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FINACEA ® ( azelaic acid ) Gel , 15 % is indicated for topical treatment of the inflammatory papules and pustules of mild to moderate rosacea .
Although some reduction of erythema which was present in patients with papules and pustules of rosacea occurred in clinical studies , efficacy for treatment of erythema in rosacea in the absence of papules and pustules has not been evaluated .
FINACEA ® ( azelaic acid ) Gel , 15 % is indicated for topical treatment of the inflammatory papules and pustules of mild to moderate rosacea .
Efficacy for treatment of erythema in rosacea in the absence of papules and pustules has not been evaluated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Apply and gently massage a thin layer of FINACEA Gel into the affected areas on the face twice daily ( morning and evening ) .
• • Use only very mild soaps or soapless cleansing lotion before application of FINACEA Gel .
• • Cosmetics may be applied after the application of FINACEA Gel has dried .
• • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings .
• • Instruct patients to avoid spicy foods , thermally hot foods and drinks , alcoholic beverages .
• • Patients should be reassessed if no improvement is observed upon completing 12 weeks of therapy .
• • Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin layer of FINACEA Gel twice daily to affected area ( s ) .
( 2 ) • • Use only very mild soaps or soapless cleansing lotion before applying FINACEA Gel .
( 2 ) • • Cosmetics may be applied after the application of FINACEA Gel has dried .
( 2 ) • • Avoid spicy foods , thermally hot foods and drinks , alcoholic beverages .
( 2 ) • • Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS FINACEA ( azelaic acid ) Gel , 15 % is a white to yellowish white opaque gel .
Each gram of FINACEA Gel contains 0 . 15 gm of azelaic acid ( 15 % w / w ) .
Gel , 15 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypersensitivity : In case of known hypersensitivity to any component of the gel , avoid the use of FINACEA Gel .
If hypersensitivity develops during treatment , discontinue FINACEA Gel and institute appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Skin Reactions : Skin irritation ( i . e . pruritus , burning or stinging ) may occur , usually during the first few weeks of treatment with FINACEAGel .
If sensitivity or severe irritation develops and persists , discontinue treatment and institute appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypopigmentation : Isolated cases of hypopigmentation occurred after azelaic acid use .
Monitor patients with dark complexion for early signs of hypopigmentation ( 5 . 2 ) • • Eye and Mucous Membrane Irritation : FINACEAGel has been reported to cause irritation of the eyes .
Therefore , avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Exacerbation of Asthma : Consult a physician if asthma is exacerbated with FINACEA Gel use .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions , including cases of angioedema , eye swelling , facial swelling , dyspnea , urticaria , and adverse skin reactions , have been reported during post marketing surveillance .
Avoid the use of FINACEA Gel in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the gel .
If hypersensitivity develops during treatment , discontinue FINACEA Gel and institute appropriate therapy .
5 . 2 Skin Reactions Skin irritation ( i . e . pruritus , burning or stinging ) may occur during use of FINACEA Gel , usually during the first few weeks of treatment .
If sensitivity or severe irritation develops and persists , discontinue treatment and institute appropriate therapy .
There have been isolated reports of hypopigmentation after use of azelaic acid .
Since azelaic acid has not been well studied in patients with dark complexion , monitor these patients for early signs of hypopigmentation .
5 . 3 Eye and Mucous Membranes Irritation Avoid contact with the eyes , mouth and other mucous membranes .
If FINACEA Gel does come in contact with the eyes , wash the eyes with large amounts of water and consult a physician if eye irritation persists [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Exacerbation of Asthma Worsening of asthma has been reported in patients using azelaic acid formulations including FINACEA Gel .
Consult a physician if asthma is exacerbated with use of FINACEA Gel .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are burning / stinging / tingling ( 29 % ) , pruritus ( 11 % ) , scaling / dry skin / xerosis ( 8 % ) and erythema / irritation ( 4 % ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bayer HealthCare at 1 - 866 - 463 - 3634 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two vehicle - controlled and one active - controlled U . S . clinical trials , treatment safety was monitored in 788 subjects who used twice - daily FINACEA Gel for 12 weeks ( N = 333 ) or 15 weeks ( N = 124 ) , or the gel vehicle ( N = 331 ) for 12 weeks .
In all three trials , the most common treatment - related adverse events were : burning / stinging / tingling ( 29 % ) , pruritus ( 11 % ) , scaling / dry skin / xerosis ( 8 % ) and erythema / irritation ( 4 % ) .
In the active - controlled trial , overall adverse reactions ( including burning , stinging / tingling , dryness / tightness / scaling , itching , and erythema / irritation / redness ) were 19 . 4 % ( 24 / 124 ) for FINACEA Gel compared to 7 . 1 % ( 9 / 127 ) for the active comparator gel at 15 weeks .
Table 1 : Adverse Events Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects in the Rosacea Trials by Treatment Group and Maximum Intensity * FINACEA Gel , 15 % N = 457 ( 100 % ) Vehicle N = 331 ( 100 % ) Mild N = 99 ( 22 % ) Moderate N = 61 ( 13 % ) Severe N = 27 ( 6 % ) Mild N = 46 ( 14 % ) Moderate N = 30 ( 9 % ) Severe N = 5 ( 2 % ) Burning / stinging / tingling 71 ( 16 % ) 42 ( 9 % ) 17 ( 4 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) Pruritus 29 ( 6 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) 5 ( 1 % ) 9 ( 3 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Scaling / dry skin / xerosis 21 ( 5 % ) 10 ( 2 % ) 5 ( 1 % ) 31 ( 9 % ) 14 ( 4 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Erythema / irritation 6 ( 1 % ) 7 ( 2 % ) 2 ( < 1 % ) 8 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 1 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) Contact dermatitis 2 ( < 1 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Edema 3 ( 1 % ) 2 ( < 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Acne 3 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) • * Subjects may have > 1 cutaneous adverse event ; thus , the sum of the frequencies of preferred terms may exceed the number of subjects with at least 1 cutaneous adverse event .
In patients using azelaic acid formulations , the following adverse events have been reported : worsening of asthma , vitiligo , depigmentation , small depigmented spots , hypertrichosis , reddening ( signs of keratosis pilaris ) and exacerbation of recurrent herpes labialis .
Local Tolerability Studies FINACEA Gel and its vehicle caused irritant reactions at the application site in human dermal safety studies .
FINACEA Gel caused significantly more irritation than its vehicle in a cumulative irritation study .
Some improvement in irritation was demonstrated over the course of the clinical trials , but this improvement might be attributed to subject dropouts .
No phototoxicity or photoallergenicity were reported in human dermal safety studies .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified post approval of FINACEA Gel .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Eyes : iridocyclitis upon accidental exposure of the eyes to FINACEA Gel Hypersensitivity : angioedema , eye swelling , facial swelling , urticaria .
Respiratory : worsening of asthma , dyspnea , wheezing , 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There have been no formal studies of the interaction of FINACEA Gel with other drugs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , FINACEA Gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Dermal embryofetal developmental toxicology studies have not been performed with azelaic acid , 15 % gel .
Oral embryofetal developmental studies were conducted with azelaic acid in rats , rabbits , and cynomolgus monkeys .
Azelaic acid was administered during the period of organogenesis in all three animal species .
Embryotoxicity was observed in rats , rabbits , and monkeys at oral doses of azelaic acid that generated some maternal toxicity .
Embryotoxicity was observed in rats given 2500 mg / kg / day [ 162 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on body surface area ( BSA ) ] , rabbits given 150 or 500 mg / kg / day ( 19 or 65 times the MRHD based on BSA ) and cynomolgus monkeys given 500 mg / kg / day ( 65 times the MRHD based on BSA ) azelaic acid .
No teratogenic effects were observed in the oral embryofetal developmental studies conducted in rats , rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys .
An oral peri - and post - natal developmental study was conducted in rats .
Azelaic acid was administered from gestational day 15 through day 21 postpartum up to a dose level of 2500 mg / kg / day .
Embryotoxicity was observed in rats at an oral dose of 2500 mg / kg / day ( 162 times the MRHD based on BSA ) that generated some maternal toxicity .
In addition , slight disturbances in the post - natal development of fetuses was noted in rats at oral doses that generated some maternal toxicity ( 500 and 2500 mg / kg / day ; 32 and 162 times the MRHD based on BSA ) .
No effects on sexual maturation of the fetuses were noted in this study .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether azelaic acid is excreted in human milk ; however , in vitro studies using equilibrium dialysis were conducted to assess the potential for human milk partitioning .
The studies demonstrated that , at an azelaic acid concentration of 25 µg / mL , the milk / plasma distribution coefficient was 0 . 7 and the milk / buffer distribution was 1 . 0 .
These data indicate that passage of drug into maternal milk may occur .
Since less than 4 % of a topically applied dose of 20 % azelaic acid cream is systemically absorbed , the uptake of azelaic acid into maternal milk is not expected to cause a significant change from baseline azelaic acid levels in the milk .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of FINACEA Gel in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of FINACEA Gel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION FINACEA ( azelaic acid ) Gel , 15 % , is an aqueous gel which contains azelaic acid , a naturally - occurring saturated dicarboxylic acid .
Chemically , azelaic acid is 1 , 7 - heptanedicarboxylic acid .
The molecular formula for azelaic acid is C9 H16 O4 .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Azelaic acid has a molecular weight of 188 . 22 .
It is a white , odorless crystalline solid .
It is poorly soluble in water at 20 ° C ( 0 . 24 % ) but freely soluble in boiling water and in ethanol .
FINACEA Gel is a white to yellowish white opaque gel for topical use ; each gram contains 0 . 15 gm azelaic acid ( 15 % w / w ) in an aqueous gel base containing benzoic acid ( as a preservative ) , disodium EDTA , lecithin , medium - chain triglycerides , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism ( s ) by which azelaic acid interferes with the pathogenic events in rosacea are unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of azelaic acid in association with the treatment of rosacea is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The percutaneous absorption of azelaic acid after topical application of FINACEA Gel could not be reliably determined .
Mean plasma azelaic acid concentrations in rosacea subjects treated with FINACEA Gel twice daily for at least 8 weeks are in the range of 42 to 63 . 1 ng / mL .
These values are within the maximum concentration range of 24 . 0 to 90 . 5 ng / mL observed in rosacea subjects treated with vehicle only .
This indicates that FINACEA Gel does not increase plasma azelaic acid concentration beyond the range derived from nutrition and endogenous metabolism .
In vitro and human data suggest negligible cutaneous metabolism of 3 H - azelaic acid after topical application of 20 % azelaic acid cream .
Azelaic acid is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine , but undergoes some ß oxidation to shorter chain dicarboxylic acids .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Systemic long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of azelaic acid .
In a 26 - week dermal carcinogenicity study using transgenic ( Tg . AC ) mice , FINACEA Gel and the gel vehicle , when applied once or twice daily , did not increase the number of female Tg . AC animals with papillomas at the treatment site .
No statistically significant increase in the number of animals with papillomas at the treatment site was observed in male Tg . AC animals after once daily application .
After twice daily application , FINACEA Gel and the gel vehicle induced a statistically significant increase in the number of male animals with papillomas at the treatment site when compared to untreated males .
This suggests that the positive effect may be associated with the vehicle application .
The clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear .
Azelaic acid was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a battery of in vitro [ Ames assay , HGPRT in V79 cells ( Chinese hamster lung cells ) , and chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes ] and in vivo ( dominant lethal assay in mice and mouse micronucleus assay ) genotoxicity tests .
Oral administration of azelaic acid at dose levels up to 2500 mg / kg / day ( 162 times the MRHD based on BSA ) did not affect fertility or reproductive performance in male or female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES FINACEA Gel was evaluated for the treatment of mild to moderate papulopustular rosacea in two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , 12 - week clinical trials having identical protocols and involving a total of 664 ( active : 333 ; vehicle : 331 ) subjects aged 21 to 86 years ( mean age = 49 ) .
Overall , 92 . 5 % of subjects were Caucasian and 73 % of subjects were female .
Enrolled subjects had mild to moderate rosacea with a mean lesion count of 18 ( range 8 to 60 ) inflammatory papules and pustules .
The following subjects were excluded : a ) those without papules and pustules ; b ) those with nodules , rhinophyma , or ocular involvement and c ) those with a history of hypersensitivity to propylene glycol or to any other ingredients of the study drug .
FINACEA Gel or its vehicle were to be applied twice daily for 12 weeks ; no other topical or systemic medication affecting the course of rosacea and / or evaluability was to be used during the studies .
Subjects were instructed to avoid spicy foods , thermally hot food / drink and alcoholic beverages during the study .
Subjects were also instructed to use only very mild soaps or soapless cleansing lotion for facial cleansing .
The primary efficacy endpoints included both 1 ) change from baseline in inflammatory lesion counts as well as 2 ) success defined as a score of “ clear ” or “ minimal ” with at least a 2 - step reduction from baseline on the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) , defined as follows below : CLEAR : No papules and / or pustules ; no or residual erythema ; no or mild to moderate telangiectasia MINIMAL : Rare papules and / or pustules ; residual to mild erythema ; mild to moderate telangiectasia MILD : Few papules and / or pustules ; mild erythema ; mild to moderate telangiectasia MILD TO MODERATE : Distinct number of papules and / or pustules ; mild to moderate erythema ; mild to moderate telangiectasia MODERATE : Pronounced number of papules and / or pustules ; moderate erythema ; mild to moderate telangiectasia MODERATE TO SEVERE : Many papules and / or pustules , occasionally with large inflamed lesions ; moderate erythema ; moderate degree of telangiectasia SEVERE : Numerous papules and / or pustules , occasionally with confluent areas of inflamed lesions ; moderate or severe erythema ; moderate or severe telangiectasia Primary efficacy assessment was based on the “ intent - to - treat ” ( ITT ) population with the “ last observation carried forward ” ( LOCF ) .
Both trials demonstrated a statistically significant difference in favor of FINACEA Gel over its vehicle in both reducing the number of inflammatory papules and pustules associated with rosacea ( Table 2 ) as well as demonstrating success on the IGA in the ITT - LOCF population at the end of treatment .
Table 2 : Inflammatory Papules and Pustules ( ITT population ) ** ITT population with last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) Study One FINACEA Gel , 15 % N = 164 Study One VEHICLE N = 165 Study Two FINACEA Gel , 15 % N = 167 Study Two VEHICLE N = 166 Mean Lesion Count Baseline 17 . 5 17 . 6 17 . 9 18 . 5 End of Treatment * 6 . 8 10 . 5 9 . 0 12 . 1 Mean Percent Reduction End of Treatment * 57 . 9 % 39 . 9 % 50 . 0 % 38 . 2 % Although some reduction of erythema which was present in subjects with papules and pustules of rosacea occurred in clinical trials , efficacy for treatment of erythema in rosacea in the absence of papules and pustules has not been evaluated .
FINACEA Gel was superior to the vehicle with regard to success based on the IGA of rosacea on a 7 - point static score at the end of treatment ( ITT population ; Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Investigator ’ s Global Assessment at the End of Treatment ** ITT population with last observation carried forward ( LOCF ) Study One FINACEA Gel , 15 % N = 164 Study One VEHICLE N = 165 Study Two FINACEA Gel , 15 % N = 167 Study Two VEHICLE N = 166 Clear , Minimal or Mild at End of Treatment ( % of Subjects ) 61 % 40 % 61 % 48 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3032 NDC : 50090 - 3032 - 0 50 g in a TUBE / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients using FINACEA Gel of the following information and instructions : • • For external use only .
• • Before applying FINACEA Gel , cleanse affected area ( s ) with a very mild soap or a soapless cleansing lotion and pat dry with a soft towel .
• • Avoid use of alcoholic cleansers , tinctures and astringents , abrasives and peeling agents .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes , mouth and other mucous membranes .
If FINACEA Gel does come in contact with the eyes , wash the eyes with large amounts of water and consult your physician if eye irritation persists .
• • Wash hands immediately following application of FINACEA Gel .
• • Cosmetics may be applied after the application of FINACEA Gel has dried .
• • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings .
• • Skin irritation ( e . g . , pruritus , burning , or stinging ) may occur during use of FINACEA Gel , usually during the first few weeks of treatment .
If irritation is excessive or persists , or allergic reactions occur , discontinue use and consult your physician .
• • If allergic reactions occur , discontinue use and consult their healthcare providers .
• • Advise patients to report any worsening of asthma to their healthcare providers .
• • Report abnormal changes in skin color to their healthcare providers .
• • To help manage rosacea , avoid any triggers that may provoke erythema , flushing , and blushing .
These triggers can include spicy and thermally hot food and drinks such as hot coffee , tea , or alcoholic beverages .
• • FINACEA Gel comes in a tube and a pump : • oTube instructions : Remove the cap before use .
Squeeze the tube to dispense a small amount of FINACEA Gel .
• oPump instructions : • ▪ Remove the cap before use .
Depress the pump to dispense a small amount of FINACEA Gel .
At first use , the pump may have to be depressed repeatedly until product is dispensed .
• ▪ Discard the pump 8 weeks after opening .
© 2002 , Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Whippany , NJ 07981 Manufactured in Italy azelaic acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
