Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Dimethicone , Mica , Cetearyl glucoside , Tribehenin , Butylene glycol , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Alcohol , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Actinidia chinensis ( Kiwi ) fruit water , Cetearyl alcohol , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Citric acid , Panax ginseng root extract , Sophora angustifolia root extract , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Ascorbic acid , Potassium hydroxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Silica , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) Description Even Younger Discover No7 ' s Lift and Luminate skincare range , now supercharged with our groundbreaking Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum , which contains three times the active ingredient concentration of our ant - ageing moisturisers in a super - fast absorbing formula for effective penetration into the skin .
As skin ages its appearance and structure chnages , with the development of fine lines and wrinkles , loss of firmness and elasticity , and a more uneven skin tone .
These three factors can have the biggest effect on skin ' s youthful appearance , causing you to look older than you feel .
Our Lift and Luminate skincare system with clinically proven Triple Action Serum addresses all three , delivering : Visibly reduced wrinkles .
Noticably firmer skin .
A more even skin tone .
Description SERUM Powered by Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM , our most effective anti - wrinkle peptide technology from our highly acclaimed No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum , our advanced firming complex containing Hyaluronic acid and Hibiscus , and a unique pigmentation complex containing Vitamin C .
After the first application skin feels smoother and looks more radiant .
After 2 weeks skin looks younger , wrinkles are visibly reduced , skin is noticeably firmer and skin tone is more even .
No7 Serums are designed to be used underneath your moisturiser to deliver key actives into the skin .
DAY CREAM Formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 to give your skin protection from the No 1 cause of vsible skin ageing .
This multitasking day cream gives skin an instant healthy glow and works to visibly reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles , even skin tone and visibly lift and firm for younger looking skin .
Contains our clinically proven brightening technology with a complex of Sophora Kiwi and Vitamin C .
It is the perfect daytime partner to our Lift and Luminate Triple Action Serum .
NIGHT CREAM The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY1005 Made in the UK www . boots . com / no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
