Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rist of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , styrene / acrylates copolymer , polyester - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , arachidyl alcohol , beeswax , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , behenyl alcohol , tocopherol , arachidyl glucoside , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , potassium hydroxide , fragrance , benzyl alcohol , disodium EDTA Distributed by the Kroger Co .
Cincinnati , Ohio 45202 Coppertone and Coppertone Ultra Guard are registered trademarks of Bayer , Whippany , NJ 07981 , Bayer is not affliated with the Kroger Co . or this product .
May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * oxybenzone & octinoxate free Quality guarantee 800 - 632 - 6900 www . kroger . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Compare to Coppertone Ultra Guard * see back panel Kroger sunscreen lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 UVA / UVB sunscreen hypoallergenic water reisistant ( 80 minutes ) enriched with moisturizers non - greasy SPF 50 Reef friendly * 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
