DESCRIPTION In - 111 DTPA is supplied as a sterile , pyrogen - free , isotonic , aqueous solution that is buffered to pH 7 to 8 .
At calibration time , each milliliter contains 2 . 5 mCi of Pentetate Indium Disodium In - 111 ( no carrier - added ) and sodium bicarbonate for pH adjustment .
CHARACTERISTICS Indium 111 decays by electron capture with a physical half - life of 67 . 9 hour .
The energies of the photons that are useful for detection and imaging studies are : Radiation Mean % Disintegration Mean Energy ( keV ) Gamma - 2 90 . 2 171 . 3 Gamma - 3 94 . 0 245 . 4 INDICATIONS AND USAGE In - 111 DTPA is indicated for use in radionuclide cisternography CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intrathecal administration , the In - 111 DTPA is absorbed from the subarachnoid space and the remainder flows superiorly to the basal cisterns within 2 to 4 hours and subsequently will be apparent in the Sylvian cisterns , the interhemispheric cisterns , and over the cerebral convexities .
In normal individuals , the it will have ascended to the parasagittal region within 24 hours with simultaneous partial or complete clearance of activity from the basal cisterns and Sylvian regions .
In contrast to air , In - 111 DTPA does not normally enter the cerebral ventricles CONTRAINDICATIONS There are no known contraindications DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Extreme care must be exercised to assure aseptic conditions in intrathecal injections .
The maximum recommended intrathecal dose in the average patient ( 70 kg ) is 18 . 5 megabecquerels ( 500 microcuries ) .
The patient dose should be measured by a suitable radioactivity calibration system immediately prior to administration .
Parenteral drug preparations should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Storage and Handling Store vial in its lead shield at a temperature of 5 - 30ยบ C . Do not freeze PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
