DESCRIPTION Selenium Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for use as an additive to solutions for Total Parenteral Nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL contains Selenious Acid 65 . 4 mcg ( equivalent to elemental selenium 40 mcg / mL ) and Water for Injection q . s . pH may be adjusted with nitric acid to 1 . 8 to 2 . 4 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Selenium is part of glutathione peroxidase which protects cell components from oxidative damage due to peroxides produced in cellular metabolism .
Prolonged TPN support in humans has resulted in selenium deficiency symptoms which include muscle pain and tenderness .
The symptoms have been reported to respond to supplementation of TPN solutions with selenium .
Pediatric conditions , Keshan disease , and Kwashiorkor , have been associated with low dietary intake of selenium .
The conditions are endemic to geographical areas with low selenium soil content .
Dietary supplementation with selenium salts has been reported to reduce the incidence of the conditions among affected children .
Normal blood levels of selenium in different human populations have been found to vary and depend on the selenium content of the food consumed .
Results of surveys carried out in some countries are tabulated below : Country Number of Samples SELENIUM ( mcg / 100 mL ) ( a ) Whole Blood Blood Cells Plasma / Serum Canada 254 Adults ( 37 . 9 ± 7 . 8 ) ( 23 . 6 ± 6 . 0 ) ( 14 . 4 ± 2 . 9 ) England 8 ( b ) 26 - 37 ( 32 ) - - Guatemala & Southern USA 10 Adults 9 Children ( c ) 19 - 28 ( 22 ) ( 23 ± 5 ) - ( 36 ± 12 ) - ( 15 ± 5 ) New Zealand ( d ) 113 Adults ( 5 . 4 ± 0 . 1 ) ( 6 . 6 ± 0 . 3 ) ( 4 . 3 ± 0 . 1 ) Thailand 3 Adults 9 Children ( e ) 14 . 4 - 20 . 2 ( 12 . 0 ± 3 . 6 ) ( f ) 17 . 8 - 35 . 8 ( 19 . 5 ± 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 - 12 . 5 ( 8 . 3 ± 2 . 2 ) USA 210 Adults 15 . 7 - 25 . 6 ( 20 . 6 ) - - ( a ) Mean values with or without standard deviation in parentheses , all other ranges .
( b ) Age group unknown .
( c ) Three children recovered from Kwashiorkor and the other six under treatment for other diseases .
( d ) Low selenium - content soil area .
( e ) Well nourished children , three recovered from Kwashiorkor and the other six under treatment for other diseases .
( f ) Mean values from seven subjects .
Plasma selenium levels of 0 . 3 and 0 . 9 mcg / 100 mL have been reported to produce deficiency symptoms in humans .
Selenium is eliminated primarily in urine .
However , significant endogenous losses through feces also occur .
The rate of excretion and the relative importance of two routes varies with the chemical form of selenium used in supplementation .
Ancillary routes of elimination are lungs and skin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Selenium Injection is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
Administration of selenium in TPN solutions helps to maintain plasma selenium levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Selenium Injection should not be given undiluted by direct injection into a peripheral vein because of the potential for infusion phlebitis .
WARNING Selenium Injection can be toxic if given in excessive amounts .
Supplementation of TPN solution with selenium should be immediately discontinued if toxicity symptoms are observed .
Frequent determination of plasma selenium levels during TPN support and close medical supervision is recommended .
Selenium Injection is a hypotonic solution and should be administered in admixtures only .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS As selenium is eliminated in urine and feces , selenium supplements may be adjusted , reduced or omitted in renal dysfunction and / or gastrointestinal malfunction .
In patients receiving blood transfusions , contribution from such transfusions should also be considered .
Frequent selenium plasma level determinations are suggested as a guideline .
In animals , selenium has been reported to enhance the action of Vitamin E and decrease the toxicity of mercury , cadmium and arsenic .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Selenium at high dose levels ( 15 - 30 mcg / egg ) has been reported to have adverse embryological effects among chickens .
There are however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Selenium Injection should be used during pregnancy only if potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Presence of selenium in placenta and umbilical cord blood has been reported in humans .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The amount of selenium present in Selenium Injection is small .
Symptoms of toxicity from selenium are unlikely to occur at the recommended dosage level .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Woodward Pharma Services LLC at 1 - 888 - 514 - 4727 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch OVERDOSAGE Chronic toxicity in humans resulting from exposure to selenium in industrial environments , intake of foods grown in seleniferous soils , use of selenium - contaminated water , and application of cosmetics containing selenium has been reported in literature .
Toxicity symptoms include hair loss , weakened nails , dermatitis , dental defects , gastrointestinal disorders , nervousness , mental depression , metallic taste , vomiting , and garlic odor of breath and sweat .
Acute poisoning due to ingestion of large amounts of selenium compounds has resulted in death with histopathological changes including fulminating peripheral vascular collapse , internal vascular congestion , diffusely hemorrhagic , congested and edematus lungs , brick - red color gastric mucosa .
The death was preceded by coma .
No effective antidote to selenium poisoning in humans is known .
Animal studies have shown casein and linseed oil in feeds , reduced glutathione , arsenic , magnesium sulfate , and bromobenzene to afford limited protection .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Selenium Injection provides 40 mcg selenium / mL .
For metabolically stable adults receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage level is 20 to 40 mcg selenium / day .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 3 mcg / kg / day .
In adults , selenium deficiency states resulting from long - term TPN support , selenium as selenomethionine or selenious acid , administered intravenously at 100 mcg / day for a period of 24 and 31 days , respectively , has been reported to reverse deficiency symptoms without toxicity .
Aseptic addition of Selenium Injection to parenteral nutrition solutions under laminar flow hood is recommended .
Selenium is physically compatible with the electrolytes and other trace elements usually present in parenteral nutrition formulations .
Frequent monitoring of plasma selenium levels is suggested as a guideline for subsequent administration .
The normal whole blood range for selenium is approximately 10 to 37 mcg / 100 mL .
Do not directly mix ascorbic acid injection with selenium containing parenteral products in the same syringe or vial , as this admixture may cause the formation of an insoluble precipitate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Selenium Injection containing selenious acid 65 . 4 mcg / mL ( equivalent to elemental selenium 40 mcg / mL ) .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC NUMBER Pharmacy Bulk Package 5 x 10 mL vials per carton 69784 - 840 - 05 Pharmacy Bulk Package 10 mL Single - Use Vial 69784 - 840 - 01 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Manufactured for : Woodward Pharma Services LLC Wixom , MI 48393 Rev . 03 / 2022 PRINICIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Labeling NDC 69784 - 840 - 01 10 mL Single Use Vial Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 400 mcg * / 10 mL ( 40 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing PRESERVATIVE FREE .
10 mL PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINICIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling NDC 69784 - 840 - 05 Rx Only Selenious Acid Injection , USP 400 mcg * / 10 mL ( 40 mcg * / mL ) of selenium For intravenous use after dilution and admixing STERILE PRESERVATIVE FREE .
5 x 10 mL VIALS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
