ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Thymosin - Beta4 - PTD ( 8 % ) INACTIVE INGREDIENT Clapiel DETOC Pack : Inactive Ingredients : Water , Carbomer , Yeast Beta - Glucan , Caffeine , Hovenia Dulcis Fruit Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Lonicera Japonica Flower Extract , Paeonia Albiflora Root Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Rhus Semialata Gall Extract , Prunus Persica Leaf Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Acetyl Gexapeptide - 8 , Copper Tripeptide - 1 , RH - Oligopeptide - 1 , RH - Oligopeptide - 4 , Caprylyl Glycol Purpose : Skin Protectant Clapiel DETOC Polymer : Water , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Benincasa Cerifera Fruit Extract , Sodium Hydroxide , Polyepsilon - Lysine PURPOSE PURPOSE : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ’ re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
1 ) Reddening of your face This is the phenomenon caused by the activation of your capillary with the strong effects of lifting , which is similar to the reddening when the blood circulation gets fast and when you are drunk .
It wo n't last for more than 30 minutes to an hour .
However , if this symptom lasts for more than 24 hrs ~ 48 hrs , then it can be regarded as a trouble , so that you must stop using the product .
2 ) Pricking of your skin Momentarily , the strong lifting is done toward one ' s skin so that a person with sensitive skin may temporarily feel hot ; it is not a side effect , so that you may feel relief when using the product .
3 ) Itching of your skin It is the phenomenon with the cracking by the hardening of the detoc pack ; a person with dry skin may have the symptom of itching more , but it is also not a side effect so that you may feel relief when using the product .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of babies and children INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications & Usage : 1 .
Wash your face with soap .
( Putting eye cream on your eye rim will be helpful for the dry skin ) .
2 .
Open the lid of ' Clapiel Detoc Polymer ' and put it into the container of ' Clapiel DETOC Pack ' .
3 .
After strongly shaking for 30 seconds , once again mix them evenly with the pack brush ( When completely mixed , the mixed content will turn into a gel - type material ) .
4 .
Evenly spread the mixed material with the pack brush ; when spreading it , be careful not to put it into your eyes .
5 .
Do not talk for about 30 minutes and stay comfortably , then the drained skin will be tightened ; after spreading the pack , you can make winds by fan , then you will get a feeling of refreshment and may have a better effect ( The remained detoc pack material can be applied to the back of your hand / neck ) .
6 .
When the DETOC Pack is dried completely , wash off your face once again with soap .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : 2 - 3 times a week .
Each Pack & Polymer is for one time use only .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
