1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cleviprex is indicated for the reduction of blood pressure when oral therapy is not feasible or not desirable .
Cleviprex is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker indicated for the reduction of blood pressure when oral therapy is not feasible or not desirable .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use : Cleviprex is intended for intravenous use .
Titrate Cleviprex to achieve the desired blood pressure reduction .
Individualize dosage depending on the blood pressure response of the patient and the goal blood pressure .
( 2 . 2 ) Monitoring : Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during infusion , and until vital signs stabilize .
( 2 . 1 ) Initial dose : Initiate intravenous infusion of Cleviprex at 1 - 2 mg / hour .
( 2 . 2 ) Dose titration : Double the dose at short ( 90 second ) intervals initially .
As the blood pressure approaches goal , increase the dose by less than doubling and lengthen the time between dose adjustments to every 5 - 10 minutes .
An approximately 1 - 2 mg / hour increase will generally produce an additional 2 - 4 mmHg decrease in systolic pressure .
( 2 . 2 ) Maintenance dose : Most patients will achieve the desired therapeutic response at approximately 4 - 6 mg / hour .
Severe hypertension is likely to require higher doses .
( 2 . 2 ) Maximum dose : Most patients have received maximum doses of 16 mg / hour or less .
There is limited experience with short - term dosing as high as 32 mg / hour .
Because of lipid load restrictions , no more than 1000 mL or an average of 21 mg / hour of Cleviprex infusion is recommended per 24 hour period .
There is little experience beyond 72 hours at any dose .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Monitoring Monitor blood pressure and heart rate continually during infusion , and then until vital signs are stable .
Patients who receive prolonged Cleviprex infusions and are not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies should be monitored for the possibility of rebound hypertension for at least 8 hours after the infusion is stopped .
These patients may need follow - up adjustments in blood pressure control .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosing Cleviprex is intended for intravenous use .
Titrate drug to achieve the desired blood pressure reduction .
Individualize dosage depending on the blood pressure to be obtained and the response of the patient .
Initial dose : Initiate the intravenous infusion of Cleviprex at 1 - 2 mg / hour .
Dose titration : The dose may be doubled at short ( 90 second ) intervals initially .
As the blood pressure approaches goal , the increase in doses should be less than doubling and the time between dose adjustments should be lengthened to every 5 - 10 minutes .
An approximately 1 - 2 mg / hour increase will generally produce an additional 2 - 4 mmHg decrease in systolic pressure .
Maintenance dose : The desired therapeutic response for most patients occurs at doses of 4 - 6 mg / hour .
Patients with severe hypertension may require doses up to 32 mg / hour , but there is limited experience at this dose rate .
Maximum dose : Most patients were treated with maximum doses of 16 mg / hour or less . There is limited short - term experience with doses up to 32 mg / hour .
Because of lipid load restrictions , no more than 1000 mL or an average of 21 mg / hour of Cleviprex infusion is recommended per 24 hour period .
In clinical trials , 55 hypertensive patients were treated with > 500 mL of Cleviprex infusion per 24 hour period .
There is little experience with infusion durations beyond 72 hours at any dose .
Transition to an oral antihypertensive agent : Discontinue Cleviprex or titrate downward while appropriate oral therapy is established .
When an oral antihypertensive agent is being instituted , consider the lag time of onset of the oral agent ’ s effect .
Continue blood pressure monitoring until desired effect is achieved .
Special populations : Special populations were not specifically studied .
In clinical trials , 78 patients with abnormal hepatic function ( one or more of the following : elevated serum bilirubin , AST / SGOT , ALT / SGPT ) and 121 patients with moderate to severe renal impairment were treated with Cleviprex .
An initial Cleviprex infusion rate of 1 - 2 mg / hour is appropriate in these patients .
Table 1 is a guideline for dosing conversion from mg / hour to mL / hour .
Table 1 .
Dose conversion Dose ( mg / hour ) Dose ( mL / hour ) 1 2 2 4 4 8 6 12 8 16 10 20 12 24 14 28 16 32 18 36 20 40 22 44 24 48 26 52 28 56 30 60 32 64 2 . 3 Instructions for Administration Maintain aseptic technique while handling Cleviprex .
Cleviprex is a single - use parenteral product .
Do not use if contamination is suspected .
Once the stopper is punctured , use within 12 hours and discard any unused portion .
Cleviprex is supplied in sterile , pre - mixed , ready - to - use 50 mL , or 100 mL , or 250 mL vials .
Invert vial gently several times before use to ensure uniformity of the emulsion prior to administration .
Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Administer Cleviprex using an infusion device allowing calibrated infusion rates .
Commercially available standard plastic cannulae may be used to administer the infusion .
Administer Cleviprex by a central line or a peripheral line .
Cleviprex should not be administered in the same line as other medications .
Cleviprex should not be diluted , but it can be administered with the following : • Water for Injection , USP • Sodium Chloride ( 0 . 9 % ) Injection , USP • Dextrose ( 5 % ) Injection , USP • Dextrose ( 5 % ) in Sodium Chloride ( 0 . 9 % ) Injection , USP • Dextrose ( 5 % ) in Ringers Lactate Injection , USP • Lactated Ringers Injection , USP • 10 % amino acid 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cleviprex is a sterile , milky white injectable emulsion for intravenous use , available in the following configurations : • 50 mL single use vial with 0 . 5 mg / mL clevidipine • 100 mL single use vial with 0 . 5 mg / mL clevidipine • 250 mL single use vial with 0 . 5 mg / mL clevidipine Injectible Emulsion .
Single - use vials .
50 mL , or 100 mL , or 250 mL .
Concentration is 0 . 5 mg / mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cleviprex is contraindicated in patients with : • Allergy to soy or eggs ( 4 . 1 ) • Defective lipid metabolism ( 4 . 2 ) • Severe aortic stenosis ( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Known Allergy Cleviprex is contraindicated in patients with allergies to soybeans , soy products , eggs , or egg products .
4 . 2 Defective Lipid Metabolism Cleviprex is contraindicated in patients with defective lipid metabolism such as pathologic hyperlipemia , lipoid nephrosis , or acute pancreatitis if it is accompanied by hyperlipidemia .
4 . 3 Severe Aortic Stenosis Cleviprex is contraindicated in patients with severe aortic stenosis because afterload reduction can be expected to reduce myocardial oxygen delivery .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Maintain aseptic technique .
Discard unused portion 12 hours after stopper puncture .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypotension and reflex tachycardia are potential consequences of rapid upward titration of Cleviprex .
( 5 . 2 ) • Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can produce negative inotropic effects and exacerbate heart failure .
Monitor heart failure patients carefully .
( 5 . 4 ) • Cleviprex gives no protection against the effects of abrupt beta - blocker withdrawal .
( 5 . 5 ) • Patients who receive prolonged Cleviprex infusions and are not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies should be monitored for the possibility of rebound hypertension for at least 8 hours after the infusion is stopped .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Need for Aseptic Technique Use aseptic technique and discard any unused product within 12 hours of stopper puncture [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension and Reflex Tachycardia Cleviprex may produce systemic hypotension and reflex tachycardia .
If either occurs , decrease the dose of Cleviprex .
There is limited experience with short - duration therapy with beta - blockers as a treatment for Cleviprex - induced tachycardia .
Beta - blocker use for this purpose is not recommended .
5 . 3 Lipid Intake Cleviprex contains approximately 0 . 2 g of lipid per mL ( 2 . 0 kcal ) .
Lipid intake restrictions may be necessary for patients with significant disorders of lipid metabolism .
For these patients , a reduction in the quantity of concurrently administered lipids may be necessary to compensate for the amount of lipid infused as part of the Cleviprex formulation .
5 . 4 Negative Inotropy Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can produce negative inotropic effects and exacerbate heart failure .
Monitor heart failure patients carefully .
5 . 5 Beta - Blocker Withdrawal Cleviprex is not a beta - blocker , does not reduce heart rate , and gives no protection against the effects of abrupt beta - blocker withdrawal .
Beta - blockers should be withdrawn only after a gradual reduction in dose .
5 . 6 Rebound Hypertension Patients who receive prolonged Cleviprex infusions and are not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies should be monitored for the possibility of rebound hypertension for at least 8 hours after the infusion is stopped .
5 . 7 Pheochromocytoma There is no information to guide use of Cleviprex in treating hypertension associated with pheochromocytoma .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following risk is discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypotension and Reflex Tachycardia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) are headache , nausea , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact The Medicines Company at 1 - 888 - 977 - MDCO ( 6326 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Cleviprex clinical development included 19 studies , with 99 healthy subjects and 1307 hypertensive patients who received at least one dose of clevidipine ( 1406 total exposures ) .
Clevidipine was evaluated in 15 studies in hypertensive patients : 1099 patients with perioperative hypertension , 126 with severe hypertension and 82 patients with essential hypertension .
The desired therapeutic response was achieved at doses of 4 - 6 mg / hour .
Cleviprex was infused for < 24 hours in the majority of patients ( n = 1199 ) ; it was infused as a continuous infusion in an additional 93 patients for durations between 24 and 72 hours .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Perioperative Hypertension The placebo - controlled experience with Cleviprex in the perioperative setting was both small and brief ( about 30 minutes ) .
Table 2 shows treatment - emergent adverse reactions and the category of “ any common adverse event ” in ESCAPE - 1 and ESCAPE - 2 where the rate on Cleviprex exceeded the rate on placebo by at least 5 % ( common adverse reactions ) .
Table 2 .
Common adverse reactions in placebo - controlled perioperative studies .
ESCAPE - 1 ESCAPE - 2 CLV N = 53 ( % ) PBO N = 51 ( % ) CLV N = 61 ( % ) PBO N = 49 ( % ) Any common adverse event 27 ( 51 % ) 21 ( 41 % ) 32 ( 53 % ) 24 ( 49 % ) Acute renal failure 5 ( 9 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) -- -- Atrial fibrillation -- -- 13 ( 21 % ) 6 ( 12 % ) Nausea -- -- 13 ( 21 % ) 6 ( 12 % ) Three randomized , parallel , open - label studies called ECLIPSE , with longer exposure in cardiac surgery patients define the adverse reactions for patients with perioperative hypertension .
Each ECLIPSE study compared Cleviprex ( n = 752 ) to an active comparator : nitroglycerin ( NTG , n = 278 ) , sodium nitroprusside ( SNP , n = 283 ) , or nicardipine ( NIC , n = 193 ) .
The pooled mean maximum dose in these studies was 10 mg / hour and the mean duration of treatment was 8 hours .
There were many adverse events associated with the operative procedure in the clinical studies of Cleviprex and relatively few plausibly related to the drugs used to lower blood pressure .
Thus , the ability to differentiate the adverse event profile between treatments is limited .
The adverse events observed within one hour of the end of the infusion were similar in patients who received Cleviprex and in those who received comparator agents .
There was no adverse reaction that was more than 2 % more common on Cleviprex than on the average of all comparators .
Serious Adverse Events and Discontinuation – Perioperative Hypertension Studies The incidence of adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation in patients with perioperative hypertension receiving Cleviprex was 5 . 9 % versus 3 . 2 % for all active comparators .
For patients receiving Cleviprex and all active comparators the incidence of serious adverse events within one hour of drug infusion discontinuation was similar .
Severe Hypertension The adverse events for patients with severe hypertension are based on an uncontrolled study in patients with severe hypertension ( VELOCITY , n = 126 ) .
The common adverse reactions for Cleviprex in severe hypertension included headache ( 6 . 3 % ) , nausea ( 4 . 8 % ) , and vomiting ( 3 . 2 % ) .
The incidence of adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation for Cleviprex in severe hypertension was 4 . 8 % .
Less Common Adverse Reactions in Patients with Severe or Essential Hypertension Adverse reactions that were reported in < 1 % of patients with severe or essential hypertension included : Cardiac : myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest Nervous system : syncope Respiratory : dyspnea 6 . 2 Post - Marketing and Other Clinical Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Cleviprex : increased blood triglycerides , ileus , hypersensitivity , hypotension , nausea , decreased oxygen saturation ( possible pulmonary shunting ) and reflex tachycardia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinical drug interaction studies were conducted .
Clevidipine and its major dihydropyridine metabolite do not have the potential for blocking or inducing any CYP enzyme .
At clinically relevant concentrations , clevidipine and its metabolites do not inhibit or induce any CYP450 enzymes .
The potential of clevidipine to interact with other drugs is low .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness of Cleviprex in children under 18 years of age have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Cleviprex use in pregnant women .
In animal studies , clevidipine caused increases in maternal and fetal mortality and length of gestation .
Cleviprex should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
There was decreased fetal survival when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated with clevidipine during organogenesis at doses 0 . 7 times ( on a body surface area basis ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in rats and 2 times the MRHD in rabbits .
In pregnant rats dosed with clevidipine during late gestation and lactation , there were dose - related increases in maternal mortality , length of gestation and prolonged parturition at doses greater than or equal to 1 / 6 of the MRHD based on body surface area .
When offspring of these dams were mated , they had a conception rate lower than that of controls .
Clevidipine has been shown to cross the placenta in rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Cleviprex in the labor and delivery setting has not been established as safe and effective .
Other calcium channel blockers suppress uterine contractions in humans .
Pregnant rats treated with clevidipine during late gestation had an increased rate of prolonged parturition .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether clevidipine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , consider possible infant exposure when Cleviprex is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Cleviprex in children under 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1406 subjects ( 1307 with hypertension ) treated with Cleviprex in clinical studies , 620 were ≥ 65 years of age and 232 were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these and younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , for an elderly patient doses should be titrated cautiously , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE There has been no experience of overdosage in human clinical trials .
In clinical trials , doses of Cleviprex up to 106 mg / hour or 1153 mg maximum total dose were administered .
The expected major effects of overdose would be hypotension and reflex tachycardia .
Discontinuation of Cleviprex leads to a reduction in antihypertensive effects within 5 to 15 minutes [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
In case of suspected overdosage , Cleviprex should be discontinued immediately and the patient ’ s blood pressure should be supported .
11 DESCRIPTION Cleviprex is a sterile , milky - white emulsion containing 0 . 5 mg / mL of clevidipine suitable for intravenous administration .
Clevidipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker .
Chemically , the active substance , clevidipine , is butyroxymethyl methyl 4 - ( 2 ´ , 3 ´ - dichlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 2 , 6 - dimethyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate .
It is a racemic mixture with a molecular weight of 456 . 3 g / mol .
Each enantiomer has equipotent antihypertensive activity .
The structure and formula are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clevidipine is practically insoluble in water and is formulated in an oil - in - water emulsion .
In addition to the active ingredient , clevidipine , Cleviprex contains soybean oil ( 200 mg / mL ) , glycerin ( 22 . 5 mg / mL ) , purified egg yolk phospholipids ( 12 mg / mL ) , oleic acid ( 0 . 3 mg / mL ) , disodium edetate ( 0 . 05 mg / mL ) , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Cleviprex has a pH of 6 . 0 – 8 . 0 and is a ready - to - use emulsion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clevidipine is a dihydropyridine L - type calcium channel blocker .
L - type calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium during depolarization in arterial smooth muscle .
Experiments in anesthetized rats and dogs show that clevidipine reduces mean arterial blood pressure by decreasing systemic vascular resistance .
Clevidipine does not reduce cardiac filling pressure ( pre - load ) , confirming lack of effects on the venous capacitance vessels .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cleviprex is titrated to the desired reduction in blood pressure .
The effect of Cleviprex appears to plateau at approximately 25 % of baseline systolic pressure .
The infusion rate for which half the maximal effect is observed is approximately 10 mg / hour .
Onset of Effect : In the perioperative patient population , Cleviprex produces a 4 - 5 % reduction in systolic blood pressure within 2 - 4 minutes after starting a 0 . 4 mcg / kg / min infusion ( approximately 1 - 2 mg / hr ) .
Maintenance of Effect : In studies up to 72 hours of continuous infusion , there was no evidence of tolerance or hysteresis .
Offset of Effect : In most patients , full recovery of blood pressure is achieved in 5 - 15 minutes after the infusion is stopped .
In studies up to 72 hours of continuous infusion , in patients that were not transitioned to other antihypertensive therapies , there was some evidence of rebound hypertension following Cleviprex discontinuation .
Hemodynamics : Cleviprex causes a dose - dependent decrease in systemic vascular resistance .
Heart Rate : An increase in heart rate is a normal response to vasodilation and decrease in blood pressure ; in some patients these increases in heart rate may be pronounced [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Electrophysiologic Effects : In healthy volunteers , clevidipine or its major carboxylic acid metabolite , at therapeutic and supratherapeutic concentrations ( approximately 2 . 8 times steady - state ) , did not prolong cardiac repolarization .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Clevidipine is rapidly distributed and metabolized resulting in a very short half life .
The arterial blood concentration of clevidipine declines in a multi - phasic pattern following termination of the infusion .
The initial phase half - life is approximately 1 minute , and accounts for 85 - 90 % of clevidipine elimination .
The terminal half - life is approximately 15 minutes .
Distribution : Clevidipine is > 99 . 5 % bound to proteins in plasma at 37 ° C .
The steady - state volume of distribution was determined to be 0 . 17 L / kg in arterial blood .
Metabolism and Elimination : Clevidipine is rapidly metabolized by hydrolysis of the ester linkage , primarily by esterases in the blood and extravascular tissues , making its elimination unlikely to be affected by hepatic or renal dysfunction .
The primary metabolites are the carboxylic acid metabolite and formaldehyde formed by hydrolysis of the ester group .
The carboxylic acid metabolite is inactive as an antihypertensive .
This metabolite is further metabolized by glucuronidation or oxidation to the corresponding pyridine derivative .
The clearance of the primary dihydropyridine metabolite is 0 . 03 L / h / kg and the terminal half - life is approximately 9 hours .
In vitro studies show that clevidipine and its metabolite at the concentrations achieved in clinical practice will not inhibit or induce any CYP enzyme .
In a clinical study with radiolabeled clevidipine , 83 % of the drug was excreted in urine and feces .
The major fraction , 63 - 74 % is excreted in the urine , 7 - 22 % in the feces .
More than 90 % of the recovered radioactivity is excreted within the first 72 hours of collection .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Clevidipine displayed positive genotoxic potential in vitro in the Ames test , mouse lymphoma thymidine kinase locus assay , and chromosomal aberration assay , but not in vivo in the mouse micronucleus test .
Formaldehyde , a metabolite of clevidipine , a known genotoxicant in vitro and a probable human carcinogen , appears to be at least partially responsible for the positive in vitro results .
Long - term studies for evaluation of carcinogenic potential have not been performed with clevidipine due to the intended short - term duration of human use .
There were no adverse effects on fertility or mating behavior of male rats at clevidipine doses of up to 55 mg / kg / day , approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 504 mg / day ( 21 mg / hour x 24 hours ) on a body surface area basis .
Female rats demonstrated pseudopregnancy and changes in estrus cycle at doses as low as 13 mg / kg / day ( about 1 / 4 th the MRHD ) ; however , doses of up to 55 mg / kg / day did not affect mating performance or fertility .
13 . 3 Developmental Toxicology When pregnant rats were dosed with clevidipine during late gestation and lactation , there were dose - related increases in mortality , length of gestation and prolonged parturition at dose levels as low as 13 mg / kg / day ( about 1 / 4 th the maximum recommended human dose of 504 mg / day ( 21 mg / hour x 24 hours ) on a body surface area basis ) .
When offspring of these dams were mated , they had a conception rate lower than that of controls .
Clevidipine crosses the placental membrane in this species and doses of 35 or more mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 7 times the MRHD ) administered during organogenesis adversely affected fetal survival .
Fetal survival was also adversely affected when pregnant rabbits were treated during organogenesis with 55 mg / kg / day ( about twice the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Perioperative Hypertension Cleviprex was evaluated in two double - blind , randomized , parallel , placebo - controlled , multicenter trials of cardiac surgery patients — pre - operative use in ESCAPE - 1 ( n = 105 ) and post - operative use in ESCAPE - 2 ( n = 110 ) .
Patients were undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting , with or without valve replacement .
Inclusion in ESCAPE - 1 required a systolic pressure ≥ 160 mmHg .
In ESCAPE - 2 , the entry criterion was systolic pressure of ≥ 140 mmHg within 4 hours of the completed surgery .
The mean baseline blood pressure was 178 / 77 mmHg in ESCAPE - 1 and 150 / 71 mmHg in ESCAPE - 2 .
The population of both studies included 27 % females and 47 % patients older than age 65 .
Cleviprex was infused in ESCAPE - 1 preoperatively for 30 minutes , until treatment failure , or until induction of anesthesia , whichever came first .
Cleviprex was infused in ESCAPE - 2 postoperatively for a minimum of 30 minutes unless alternative therapy was required .
The maximum infusion time allowed in the ESCAPE studies was 60 minutes .
In both studies infusion of Cleviprex was started at a dose of 1 - 2 mg / hour and was titrated upwards , as tolerated , in doubling increments every 90 seconds up to an infusion rate of 16 mg / hour in order to achieve the desired blood pressure - lowering effect .
At doses above 16 mg / hour , increments were 7 mg / hour .
The average Cleviprex infusion rate in ESCAPE - 1 was 15 . 3 mg / hour and in ESCAPE - 2 it was 5 . 1 mg / hour .
The mean duration of exposure in the same ESCAPE studies was 30 minutes for the Cleviprex - treated patients .
Approximately 4 % of Cleviprex - treated subjects in ESCAPE - 1 and 41 % in ESCAPE - 2 were on concomitant vasodilators during the first 30 minutes of Cleviprex administration .
Cleviprex lowered blood pressure within 2 - 4 minutes .
The change in systolic blood pressure over 30 minutes for ESCAPE - 1 ( preoperative ) and ESCAPE - 2 ( postoperative ) are shown in Figure 1 and 2 .
Figure 1 .
Mean change in systolic blood pressure ( mmHg ) during 30 - minute infusion , ESCAPE - 1 ( preoperative ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 .
Mean change in systolic blood pressure ( mmHg ) during 30 - minute infusion , ESCAPE - 2 ( postoperative ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The change in heart rate over 30 minutes for ESCAPE - 1 ( preoperative ) and ESCAPE - 2 ( postoperative ) are shown in Figure 3 and 4 .
Figure 3 .
Mean change in heart rate ( bpm ) during 30 - minute infusion , ESCAPE - 1 ( preoperative ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 .
Mean change in heart rate ( bpm ) during 30 - minute infusion , ESCAPE - 2 ( postoperative ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In three Phase 3 open - label clinical trials ( ECLIPSE ) , 1512 patients were randomized to receive Cleviprex , nitroglycerin ( perioperative hypertension ) , sodium nitroprusside ( perioperative hypertension ) , or nicardipine ( postoperative hypertension ) , for the treatment of hypertension in cardiac surgery .
The mean exposure in the ECLIPSE studies was 8 hours at 4 . 5 mg / hour for the 752 patients who were treated with Cleviprex .
Blood pressure control was assessed by measuring the magnitude and duration of SBP excursions outside the predefined pre - and post - operative SBP target range of 75 - 145 mmHg and the predefined intra - operative SBP range of 65 - 135 mmHg .
In general , blood pressure control was similar with the four treatments .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Severe Hypertension Cleviprex was evaluated in an open - label , uncontrolled clinical trial ( VELOCITY ) in 126 patients with severe hypertension ( SBP > 180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure [ DBP ] > 115 mmHg ) .
Cleviprex infusion was initiated at 2 mg / hour and up - titrated every 3 minutes , doubling up to a maximum dose of 32 mg / hour as required to achieve a prespecified target blood pressure range within 30 minutes ( primary endpoint ) .
The transition to oral antihypertensive therapy was assessed for up to 6 hours following cessation of Cleviprex infusion .
The blood pressure effect in this study is shown in Figure 5 .
The average infusion rate was 9 . 5 mg / hour .
The mean duration of Cleviprex exposure was 21 hours .
Figure 5 .
Mean percent change in SBP ( % ) during the first 30 minutes of infusion , VELOCITY ( severe hypertension ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oral antihypertensive therapy was instituted 1 hour prior to the anticipated cessation of Cleviprex infusion .
Transition to oral antihypertensive therapy within 6 hours after discontinuing Cleviprex infusion was successful in 91 % ( 115 / 126 ) of patients .
No patient had IV antihypertensive therapy reinstituted following transition to oral therapy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 Essential Hypertension Cleviprex was evaluated in a randomized , placebo - controlled , single - blind , parallel 72 - hour continuous infusion study in 61 mild to moderate essential hypertensives .
The mean baseline blood pressure was 151 / 86 mmHg .
Subjects were randomized to placebo or to 2 , 4 , 8 , or 16 mg / hour .
Doses above 2 mg / hour were started at 2 mg / hour and force - titrated in 2 - fold increments at 3 - minute intervals .
Blood pressure , heart rate , and blood levels of clevidipine were measured during the infusion period .
Blood levels were monitored 1 hour after the infusion was discontinued .
Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored for 8 hours and also at 96 hours after the termination of infusion .
Systolic blood pressure effect was related to the concentration of clevidipine and plateaued at higher measured concentrations , with the maximal effect estimated at 25 % of baseline systolic blood pressure .
The estimated infusion rate necessary to achieve half of this maximal effect was approximately 10 mg / hour .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cleviprex ( clevidipine ) injectable emulsion is supplied as a sterile , milky white liquid emulsion product in single - use glass vials at a concentration of 0 . 5 mg / mL of clevidipine .
NDC 65293 - 005 - 50 : 50 mL vial NDC 65293 - 005 - 00 : 100 mL vial NDC 65293 - 005 - 25 : 250 mL vial Storage Leave vials in cartons until use .
Clevidipine is photosensitive and storage in cartons protects against photodegradation .
Protection from light during administration is not required .
Store vials refrigerated at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Vials in cartons may be transferred to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F , USP controlled room temperature ) for a period not to exceed 2 months .
Upon transfer to room temperature , mark vials in cartons “ This product was removed from the refrigerator on _ / _ / _ date .
It must be used or discarded 2 months after this date or the labeled expiration date ( whichever date comes first ) . ”
Do not return to refrigerated storage after beginning room temperature storage .
Handling Maintain aseptic technique while handling Cleviprex .
Cleviprex is a single - use parenteral product that contains 0 . 005 % disodium edetate to inhibit the rate of growth of microorganisms , for up to 12 hours , in the event of accidental contamination .
However , Cleviprex can still support the growth of microorganisms , as it is not an antimicrobially preserved product under USP standards .
Do not use if contamination is suspected .
Once the stopper is punctured , use within 12 hours and discard any unused portion .
Cleviprex inhibits microbial growth for up to 12 hours , as demonstrated by test data for representative USP microorganisms , staphylococcus epidermidis and serratiamarcescens .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients with underlying hypertension that they require continued follow up for their medical condition , and , if applicable , encourage patients to continue taking their oral antihypertensive medication ( s ) as directed .
• Advise patients to contact a healthcare professional immediately for any of the following signs of a new hypertensive emergency : neurological symptoms , visual changes , or evidence of congestive heart failure .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH , Graz , Austria Marketed by : The Medicines Company Parsippany , New Jersey 07054 For information call : 888 - 977 - MDCO ( 6326 ) US Patent 5 , 856 , 346 US Patent 5 , 739 , 152 TMC [ PN 1220 - 3 ( November 08 , 2013 ) ] M088834 / 04 USA Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 25 mg / 50 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 25 mg / 50 mL Inner Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 25 mg / 50 mL Outer Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 50 mg / 100 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 50 mg / 100 mL Inner Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 50 mg / 100 mL Outer Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 125 mg / 250 mL Vial Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 125 mg / 250 mL Inner Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel - 125 mg / 250 mL Outer Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
