For Topical Use Only Not for use in eyes Rx Only DESCRIPTION LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Topical Suspension , 0 . 77 % is for topical use .
Each gram of LOPROX ® Topical Suspension contains 7 . 70 mg of ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) in a water miscible suspension base consisting of purified water USP , cocamide DEA , octyldodecanol NF , mineral oil USP , stearyl alcohol NF , cetyl alcohol NF , polysorbate 60 NF , myristyl alcohol NF , lactic acid USP , sorbitan monostearate NF , and benzyl alcohol NF ( 1 % ) as preservative .
LOPROX ® Topical Suspension contains a synthetic , broad spectrum , antifungal agent ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) .
The chemical name is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , 2 - aminoethanol salt .
The CAS Registry Number is 41621 - 49 - 2 .
LOPROX ® Topical Suspension has a pH of 7 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ciclopirox is a hydroxypyridone antifungal agent that acts by chelation of polyvalent cations ( Fe3 + or Al3 + ) , resulting in the inhibition of the metal - dependent enzymes that are responsible for the degradation of peroxides within the fungal cell .
Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies in men with radiolabeled ciclopirox solution in polyethylene glycol 400 showed an average of 1 . 3 % absorption of the dose when it was applied topically to 750 cm2 on the back followed by occlusion for 6 hours .
The biological half life was 1 . 7 hours and excretion occurred via the kidney .
Two days after application only 0 . 01 % of the dose applied could be found in the urine .
Fecal excretion was negligible .
Autoradiographic studies with human cadaver skin showed that ciclopirox penetrates into the hair and through the epidermis and hair follicles into the sebaceous glands and dermis , while a portion of the drug remains in the stratum corneum .
In vitro penetration studies in frozen or fresh excised human cadaver and pig skin indicated that the penetration of LOPROX ® Topical Suspension is equivalent to that of LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Cream , 0 . 77 % .
Therapeutic equivalence of cream and suspension formulations also was indicated by studies of experimentally induced guinea pig and human trichophytosis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOPROX ® Topical Suspension is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis ; ; cutaneous candidiasis ( moniliasis ) due to Candida albicans ; and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor due to Malassezia furfur .
CONTRAINDICATIONS LOPROX ® Topical Suspension is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS General LOPROX ® Topical Suspension is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of LOPROX ® Topical Suspension , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients The patient should be told to : • Use the medication for the full treatment time even though signs / symptoms may have improved and notify the physician if there is no improvement after four weeks .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , oozing ) indicative of possible sensitization .
• Avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 104 - week dermal carcinogenicity study in mice was conducted with ciclopirox cream applied at doses up to 1 . 93 % ( 100 mg / kg / day or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
No increase in drug related neoplasms was noted when compared to control .
The following in vitro genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox : evaluation of gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella and E . coli assays ( negative ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells in the presence of supplemental Fe3 + , with and without metabolic activation ( negative ) ; gene mutation assays in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay in A549 human cells ) ( negative ) .
An in vitro cell transformation assay in BALB / c 3T3 cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese hamster bone marrow cytogenetic assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at a dosage of 5000 mg / kg body weight .
A combined oral fertility and embryofetal developmental study was conducted in rats with ciclopirox olamine .
No effect on fertility or reproductive performance was noted at the highest dose tested of 3 . 85 mg / kg / day ciclopirox ( approximately 1 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , LOPROX ® Topical Suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys .
Ciclopirox or ciclopirox olamine was orally administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 77 , 125 , 80 and 38 . 5 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys , respectively ( approximately 11 , 37 , 51 and 24 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Dermal embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with ciclopirox olamine dissolved in PEG 400 .
Ciclopirox olamine was topically administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 92 mg / kg / day and 77 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in rats and rabbits , respectively ( approximately 27 and 49 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when LOPROX ® Topical Suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trial with 89 patients using LOPROX ® Topical Suspension and 89 patients using the vehicle , the incidence of adverse reactions was low .
Those considered possibly related to treatment or occurring in more than one patient were pruritus , which occurred in two patients using ciclopirox suspension and one patient using the suspension vehicle , and burning , which occurred in one patient using ciclopirox suspension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently massage LOPROX ® Topical Suspension into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice daily , in the morning and evening .
Clinical improvement with relief of pruritus and other symptoms usually occurs within the first week of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after four weeks of treatment with LOPROX ® Topical Suspension , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Topical Suspension , 0 . 77 % is supplied in 60 mL bottles ( NDC 43538 - 550 - 60 ) Bottle space provided to allow for vigorous shaking before each use .
Store between 5 ° - 25 ° C ( 41 ° - 77 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Medimetriks Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 973 - 882 - 7512 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC . 383 Route 46 West , Fairfield , NJ 07004 - 2402 USA www . medimetriks . com Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc . , Buena , NJ 08310 Rev . 03 / 2016 IP043 - R1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Carton NDC 43538 - 550 - 60 For Topical Use Only Not for use in eyes 60 mL LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Topical Suspension , 0 . 77 % Rx Only MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 43538 - 551 - 60 For Topical Use Only Not for use in eyes 60 mL Rx Only LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Topical Suspension , 0 . 77 % KIT KIT CONTAINS : • 1 - LOPROX ® ( ciclopirox ) Topical Suspension , 0 . 77 % 60 mL Bottle • 1 - Rehyla ® Hair + Body Cleanser Net wt .
16 oz .
( 454 g ) Bottle MEDIMETRIKS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
