1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindesse is a lincosamide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis in non - pregnant women ( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis Clindesse is indication for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis ( formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis , Gardnerellavaginitis , nonspecific vaginitis , Corynebacteriumvaginitis , or anaerobic vaginosis ) in non - pregnant women .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is the complete contents of a single pre - filled applicator containing 5 g of Clindesse cream administered once intravaginally at any time of the day .
Not for ophthalmic , dermal , or oral use .
• • A single applicator of cream administered once intravaginally at any time of the day ( 2 ) • • Not for ophthalmic , dermal , or oral use 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Clindesse is an intravaginal cream containing clindamycin phosphate 2 % .
Each pre - filled , single - dose applicator delivers approximately 5 g of cream containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin .
One single - dose , pre - filled disposable applicator delivers approximately 5 g of cream containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • History of hypersensitivity to clindamycin or other lincosamides ( 4 . 1 ) • • History of regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or a history of C . difficile - associated diarrhea ( 4 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Do not administer Clindesse to individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to clindamycin or other lincosamides .
Reported reactions to other formulations of clindamycin include rashes , urticaria , erythema multiforme , and anaphylactoid reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 2 History of Bowel Disease Do not administer Clindesse to patients with regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or a history of Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • C . difficile - associated diarrhea : Discontinue and evaluate if diarrhea occurs ( 5 . 1 ) • • Rubber or latex products : Do not use barrier contraceptives ( condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms ) concurrently or for 5 days following treatment .
Condoms may not be reliable for preventing pregnancy or for protecting again transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases during this time ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ] .
5 . 2 Use with Condoms and Vaginal Contraceptive Diaphragms This cream contains mineral oil that may weaken latex or rubber products such as condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Therefore , the use of such barrier contraceptives is not recommended concurrently or for 5 days following treatment with Clindesse .
During this time period , condoms may not be reliable for preventing pregnancy or for protecting against transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients and at a higher rate in the Clindesse group than in the placebo group are vaginosis fungal ( 14 % ) , headache ( 7 % ) , back pain ( 5 % ) , constipation ( 2 % ) , and urinary tract infection ( 2 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Padagis at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to Clindesse in 368 patients .
Clindesse was studied in three clinical studies : placebo - controlled ( n = 85 ) , active - controlled ( n = 263 ) , and single - arm ( n = 20 ) .
The population was female , aged 18 to 78 , who were diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis .
Patient demographics in the trials were 51 % Caucasian , 36 % Black , 10 % Hispanic , and 3 % Asian , other or unknown .
All patients received 100 mg clindamycin phosphate cream intravaginally in a single dose .
Of the 368 women treated with a single dose of Clindesse , 1 . 6 % of the patients discontinued therapy due to adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions occurred in 126 of 368 patients ( 34 % ) treated with Clindesse and in 32 of 85 patients ( 38 % ) treated with placebo .
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving Clindesse in the placebo - controlled clinical trial are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Clindesse - Treated Patients and at a Higher Rate than Placebo - Treated Patients [ MULTIMEDIA ] N = number of patients in intent - to - treat population n ( % ) = number and percentage of patients with reported adverse reaction NOS = not otherwise specified • The use of clindamycin may result in the overgrowth of non - susceptible fungal organisms in the vagina and may require antifungal treatment • Other reactions reported by < 1 % of those women treated with Clindesse include : • Dermatologic : Pruritic rash • Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , vomiting • General : Fatigue • Immune System : Hypersensitivity • Nervous System : Dizziness • Reproductive System : Dysfunctional uterine bleeding , dysmennorrhea , intermenstrual bleeding , pelvic pain , vaginal burning , vaginal irritation , vulvar erythema , vulvitis , vulvovaginal discomfort , vulvovaginal dryness , vulvovaginitis [ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 . 2 Other Clindamycin Formulations Clindesse affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure ( AUCs ) of clindamycin compared to an oral or intravenous dose of clindamycin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Data from well - controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available .
The following additional adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin : Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , esophagitis , nausea , Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) , eosinophilia , agranulocytosis , and thrombocytopenia have been reported .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Maculopapular rash , vesiculobullous rash , and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy .
Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions .
Cases of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have been associated with clindamycin .
A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Musculoskeletal : Cases of polyarthritis have been reported .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Clindesse .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Dermatologic : Rash Gastrointestinal : Hematochezia Reproductive System : Vaginal erythema , vulvovaginal pruritis , vaginal discharge , vaginal swelling , vaginal bleeding , vaginal pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted for Clindesse .
Neuromuscular blocking agents : Enhanced action of neuromuscular blocking agents can occur ; use with caution ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Orally or intravenously administered clindamycin has neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when administered to a nursing woman ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Clindesse should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Clindesse in pregnant women .
Another intravaginal formulation containing 2 % clindamycin phosphate has been studied in pregnant women during the second trimester .
In women treated for seven days , abnormal labor was reported in 1 . 1 % of patients who received that clindamycin vaginal cream formulation compared with 0 . 5 % of patients who received placebo .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral and parenteral doses of clindamycin up to 600 / mg / kg / day ( 58 and 29 times , respectively , the recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to clindamycin .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Clindesse should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when Clindesse is administered to a nursing woman .
It is not known if clindamycin is excreted in human milk following the use of vaginally administered clindamycin .
Clindamycin has been detected in human milk after oral or parenteral administration .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision to continue or discontinue nursing should take into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Clindesse in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis in post - menarchal females have been established on the extrapolation of clinical trial data from adult women .
The safety and efficacy of Clindesse in pre - menarchal females have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies with Clindesse did not include sufficient numbers of subjects 65 years of age or older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Vaginally applied clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % could be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Clindamycin phosphate , a lincosamide , is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - ( alpha ) - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
It has a molecular weight of 504 . 95 , and the molecular formula is C18H34CIN2O8PS .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clindesse is a semi - solid , white cream , which contains clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 20 mg clindamycin base per gram .
The cream also contains edetate disodium , glycerol monoisostearate , lecithin , methylparaben , microcrystalline wax , mineral oil , polyglyceryl - 3 - oleate , propylparaben , purified water , silicon dioxide and sorbitol solution .
Clindesse does not comply with the pH test of the USP monograph for clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clindamycin is an antibacterial drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology , Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following a single intravaginal application of Clindesse cream to 20 healthy women , the mean ( range ) AUC0 - inf and Cmax estimates were 175 ( 38 . 6 to 541 ) ng / mL ● hr and 6 . 6 ( 0 . 8 to 39 ) ng / mL , respectively .
The mean Cmaxof clindamycin for Clindesse was approximately 0 . 3 % , 0 . 1 % , and 7 . 6 % of that observed after the administration of a 150 mg Cleocin oral capsule ( 2 . 5 mcg / mL ) , a 600 mg Cleocin intravenous injection ( 10 . 9 mcg / mL ) , and a single dose of 100 mg of Cleocin Vaginal Cream ( 86 . 5 ng / mL ) , respectively .
The peak serum concentration of clindamycin was attained approximately 20 hours post dosing for Clindesse .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis at the level of the bacterial ribosome .
The antibiotic binds preferentially to the 50 S ribosomal subunit and affects the process of peptide chain initiation .
Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Activity In Vitro Clindamycin is an antibacterial agent active in vitro against most strains of the following organisms that have been reported to be associated with bacterial vaginosis : Bacteroidesspp .
Gardnerellavaginalis Mobiluncusspp .
Mycoplasma hominis Peptostreptococcusspp .
Standard methodology for the susceptibility testing of the potential bacterial vaginosis pathogens has not been defined .
Culture and sensitivity testing of bacteria are not routinely performed to establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 / mg / kg / day ( 29 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of Clindesse for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis .
A clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was defined by the presence of a homogeneous vaginal discharge that ( a ) has a pH of greater than 4 . 5 , ( b ) emits a “ fishy ” amine odor when mixed with a 10 % KOH solution , and ( c ) contains clue cells on microscopic examination .
Gram ’ s stain results consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include ( a ) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology , ( b ) predominance of Gardnerellamorphotype , and ( c ) absent or few white blood cells .
In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , clinical study involving 144 non - pregnant female patients aged 18 to 64 with a baseline Nugent score ≥ 4 , Clindesse demonstrated statistically significantly higher cure rates over placebo as measured by therapeutic cure , clinical cure , and Nugent score cure ( Table 2 ) assessed at 21 - 30 days after administration of the drug .
Therapeutic cure was a composite endpoint which required both clinical cure and Nugent score cure .
Clinical cure required normal vaginal discharge , vaginal pH < 4 . 7 , < 20 % clue cells on wet mount preparation , and negative “ whiff ” test ( detection of amine odor on addition of 10 % KOH solution to sample of the vaginal discharge ) .
A Nugent score of 0 - 3 was considered a Nugent score cure .
The Nugent scoring is based on microscopic examination of the Gram ’ s stained vaginal smears for quantification of specific bacterial morphotypes .
Cure rates were consistently higher for Clindesse compared to placebo for the following demographic subsets : age , race , height , weight , sexual behavior , and recalcitrant infection status .
Table 2 .
Efficacy of Clindesse for Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis in a Randomized , Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled , Parallel Group Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] N = number of patients in treatment group ( modified intent - to - treat population defined as all subjects randomized who received at least one dose of study medication , and who had a baseline Nugent score of at least 4 ) † Treatment difference = Clindesse minus placebo cure rates In a second controlled clinical study involving 432 patients aged 18 to 78 with a baseline Nugent score of ≥ 4 , 221 women self - administered a single dose of Clindesse , and 211 women self - administered a single daily dose of a formulation of clindamycin vaginal cream for 7 days .
A single dose of Clindesse was shown to be similar to 7 daily doses of the clindamycin vaginal cream for treatment of bacterial vaginosis as measured by therapeutic cure , clinical cure of Nugent score cure assessed at 21 - 30 days after administration of the drug in the modified intent - to - treat population ( Table 3 ) and for the per protocol population ( Table 4 ) .
The study endpoints were identical to those described above for the placebo - controlled study .
Statistical analyses did not reveal any significant differences when controlling for the following demographic variables : age , race , height , weight , sexual behavior , and recalcitrant infection status .
The cure rates reported in the clinical studies with Clindesse were based on resolution of 4 out of 4 Amsel criteria and a Nugent score of < 4 , while the criteria for cure in previous clinical studies with the clindamycin vaginal cream were based solely on resolution of 2 out of 4 Amsel criteria , resulting in higher reported rates of cure for bacterial vaginosis .
Table 3 .
Efficacy of Clindesse in Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis in a Randomized , Investigator - Blind , Active - Controlled Comparative Study – Modified - Intent - to - Treat [ MULTIMEDIA ] † Treatment difference = Clindesse minus clindamycin vaginal cream cure rates N = number of patients in treatment group ( modified intent - to - treat population defined as all subjects randomized who received at least one dose of study medication , and who had a baseline Nugent score of at least 4 ) Table 4 .
Efficacy of Clindesse in Treatment of Bacterial Vaginosis in a Randomized , Investigator - Blind , Active - Controlled Comparative Study – Per Protocol [ MULTIMEDIA ] † Treatment difference = Clindesse minus clindamycin vaginal cream cure rates N = number of patients in treatment group ( per protocol population defined as all subjects included in the modified intent - to - treat population who completed the study without significant protocol violation ) ‡ Four subject ( 2 from each treatment group ) did not have complete Nugent scores and were not included in the Nugent Score cure analysis [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clindesse ( clindamycin phosphate ) Vaginal Cream , 2 % , is available in cartons containing one single - dose , pre - filled disposable applicator ( NDC 45802 - 042 - 01 ) .
Each applicator delivers approximately 5 g of vaginal cream containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid heat above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Vaginal Intercourse and Use with Vaginal Products Instruct the patient not to engage in vaginal intercourse , or use other vaginal products ( such as tampons or douches ) during treatment with this product .
17 . 2 Use with Condoms and Vaginal Contraceptive Diaphragms Advise the patient that this cream contains mineral oil that may weaken latex or rubber products such as condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Therefore , do not use barrier contraceptives concurrently or for 5 days following treatment with Clindesse .
During this time period , condoms may not be reliable for preventing pregnancy or for protecting against transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 3 Fungal Vaginal Infections Inform the patient that vaginal fungal infections can occur following use of Clindesse and may require treatment with an antifungal drug [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 4 Accidental Exposure to the Eye Inform the patient the Clindesse contains ingredients which cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with the eye , rinse the eye with copious amounts of cool tap water and consult a physician .
Manufactured By Padagis Yeruham , Israel Distributed By Padagis Allegan , MI 49010 www . padagis . com Rev 05 - 22 2S000 RC J2 U . S Patent Nos . 5 , 993 , 856 ; 6 , 899 , 890 .
Cleocin is a registered trademark of Pharmacia & Upjohn Company .
Patient Information Patient Information Clindesse ( clin - DESS ) ( clindamycin phosphate ) Vaginal Cream , 2 % For vaginal use only .
Do not put Clindesse in your eyes , mouth , or on your skin .
Read this patient information before you start using Clindesse .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Clindesse ?
Clindesse is a vaginal cream medicine used to treat bacterial vaginal infections in women who are not pregnant .
It is not known if Clindesse is safe and effective in pregnant women .
It not known if Clindesse is safe and effective in females who have not yet reached puberty .
Who should not use Clindesse ?
Do not use Clindesse if you : • • have had an allergic reaction to clindamycin or other lincosamide antibiotic medicines or are allergic to any of the ingredients in Clindesse .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Clindesse .
• • had had bowel problems such as : • ∘ inflammation of your intestines ( enteritis ) • ∘ inflammation of your colon ( colitis ) • ∘ diarrhea due to a Clostridum difficile infection ( CDAD ) Talk to your healthcare provider before using this medicine if you have any of these conditions .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using Clindesse ?
Before you use Clindesse , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Clindesse will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Clindesse passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take Clindesse or breast feed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Clindesse may affect how other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how Clindesse works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Clindesse ?
• • Use Clindesse exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• • Insert Clindesse in the vagina one time .
See the “ Patient Instructions for Use ” at the end of this leaflet .
• • Insert all of the Clindesse cream into your vagina .
• • Do not use Clindesse after the expiration date on the package .
• • Do not get Clindesse in your eyes .
If you accidently get Clindesse in your eyes rinse your eyes with cool tap water right away and call your healthcare provider .
What should I avoid while using Clindesse ?
After you insert Clindesse you should : • • not have vaginal intercourse or use of other vaginal products ( such as tampons or douches ) for at least 7 days .
• • not use barrier contraceptive products for 5 days .
Barrier contraceptives include condoms or contraceptive diaphragms used for birth control or to protect yourself against HIV or other sexually transmitted diseases .
Clindesse contains mineral oil that may weaken latex or rubber products such as condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
What are the possible side effects of Clindesse ?
Clindesse may cause serious side effects , including diarrhea .
One type of diarrhea is caused by an infection in your intestines called Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) .
If you have diarrhea after you use Clindesse , call your healthcare provider .
The most common side effects of Clindesse include : • • fungal infection in your vagina .
You may need to take an anti - fungal medicine if you get a fungal infection .
• • headache • • back pain • • constipation • • urinary tract infection Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Clindesse .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Clindesse ?
• • Store Clindesse at 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° ) .
• • Keep Clindesse and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Clindesse .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not give Clindesse to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Clindesse .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information Clindesse that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . clindesse . com or call 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 What are the ingredients in Clindesse ?
Active ingredient : clindamycin phosphate Inactive ingredients : edetate disodium , glycerol monoisostearate , lecithin , methylparaben , microcrystalline wax , mineral oil , polyglyceryl - 3 - oleate , propylparaben , purified water , silicon dioxide and sorbitol solution Patient Instructions for Use For vaginal use only .
Do not put Clindesse in your eyes , mouth , or on your skin .
It is important that you read and follow these directions on how to use Clindesse vaginal cream properly .
Clindesse comes in a single - dose , pre - filled , disposable applicator that gives you a certain amount of clindamycin cream to be inserted into your vagina .
Step 1 .
Prepare the applicator .
• • Peel back the protective foil and remove the pre - filled applicator .
Do not remove the tip .
The applicator is made to be used with the tip in place .
Do not use the applicator if the tip has been removed ( see Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Activate the plunger before you use it .
To activate the plunger , pull the ring back to fully extend the plunger while you firmly hold the applicator ( see Figure 2 ) .
Step 2 .
Insert the applicator .
• • Gently insert the applicator into your vagina as far as it will comfortably go ( see Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Apply the cream .
Push the plunger in until all of the cream goes into your vagina ( see Figures 4 and 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Remove the empty applicator from your vagina and throw it away in the trash .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel - Carton Clindesse ® ( clindamycin phosphate ) Vaginal Cream , 2 % Rx Only This applicator delivers approximately 5 g of vaginal cream containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin .
One complete course of therapy in a convenient , prefilled , and disposable applicator .
NET WT 5 . 8 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL – Professional Sample – Not to be Sold Clindesse ® ( clindamycin phosphate ) Vaginal Cream , 2 % PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE NOT TO BE SOLD Rx Only This applicator delivers approximately 5 g of vaginal cream containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin .
One complete course of therapy in a convenient , prefilled , and disposable applicator .
NET WT 5 . 8 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
