1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOCOID ® Lotion is indicated for the topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age and older .
LOCOID Lotion is a corticosteroid indicated for the topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas two times daily and rub in gently .
Do not apply LOCOID Lotion in the diaper area unless directed by a physician .
Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Before prescribing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefits of extending treatment to 4 weeks should be weighed against the risk of HPA axis suppression and local adverse events .
The safety and efficacy of LOCOID Lotion has not been established beyond 4 weeks of use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Do not use LOCOID Lotion with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Avoid use in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
LOCOID Lotion is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin two times daily .
( 2 ) • • Rub in gently .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue LOCOID Lotion when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • Reassess diagnosis if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
Before prescribing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefits of extending treatment to 4 weeks should be weighed against the risk of HPA axis suppression and local adverse events .
Safety and efficacy of LOCOID Lotion has not been established beyond 4 weeks of use .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use under occlusion or in the diaper area .
( 2 ) • • LOCOID Lotion is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Lotion , 0 . 1 % .
Each gram of LOCOID Lotion contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a white to off - white lotion base .
LOCOID Lotion is supplied in bottles of 2 fl .
oz .
and 4 fl .
oz .
Lotion , 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg / g ) supplied in bottles of 2 fl .
oz .
and 4 fl .
oz .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression may occur , with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
Consider periodic evaluations for HPA axis suppression if LOCOID Lotion is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , reduce the application frequency , discontinue use , or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of LOCOID Lotion .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of LOCOID Lotion due to their larger skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis .
This may be done by using cosyntropin ( ACTH1 - 24 ) stimulation testing ( CST ) .
Minimize systemic corticosteroid effects by mitigating the risk factors for increased systemic absorption and using LOCOID Lotion as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn , or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted .
Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal , antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of LOCOID Lotion should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing .
Discontinue LOCOID Lotion if the diagnosis is established [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • HPA axis suppression .
This has been observed in pediatric subjects using LOCOID Lotion [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) andUse in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] • • Concomitant skin infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Allergic contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 1 % ) are application site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 and / or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety data derived from LOCOID Lotion clinical trials reflect exposure to LOCOID Lotion twice daily for up to 4 weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age and adult subjects 18 years of age and older with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis .
Adverse reactions shown in the tables below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to LOCOID Lotion .
Although the rates of application site reactions in the vehicle group were greater than those in the LOCOID group in both studies , these rates are included in the tables ( Table 1 and Table 2 ) because skin irritation is a known adverse reaction of topical corticosteroids .
TABLE 1 .
Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis LOCOID Lotion ( n = 139 ) n ( % ) Vehicle ( n = 145 ) n ( % ) Application site reactions , including application site burning , pruritus , dermatitis , erythema , eczema , inflammation , or irritation 2 ( 1 ) 20 ( 14 ) Infantile acne 1 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Skin depigmentation 1 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) TABLE 2 .
Frequency of adverse reactions in adult subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis LOCOID Lotion ( n = 151 ) n ( % ) Vehicle ( n = 150 ) n ( % ) Application site reactions , including application site burning , dermatitis , eczema , erythema , or pruritus 5 ( 3 ) 7 ( 5 ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions included : irritation , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria , and telangiectasia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , LOCOID Lotion should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Note : The animal multiples of human exposure calculations in this label were based on body surface area comparisons for an adult ( i . e . , mg / m2 / day dose comparisons ) assuming 100 % human percutaneous absorption of a maximum topical human dose ( MTHD ) for hydrocortisone butyrate lotion ( 25 g lotion ) .
Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 17 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , fetal effects noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) included an increased incidence of ossification variations and unossified sternebra .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 5 . 4 mg / kg / day and 1 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 2 X MTHD and 0 . 7 X MTHD , respectively ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 7 – 20 .
An increased incidence of abortion was noted at 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal body weight was noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Additional indicators of embryofetal toxicity ( reduction in litter size , decreased number of viable fetuses , increased post - implantation loss ) were noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Additional fetal effects noted in this study included delayed ossification noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day and an increased incidence of fetal malformations ( primarily skeletal malformations ) noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were observed was not established in this study .
Additional systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and mice .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 and 9 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 9 – 15 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , an increase in fetal deaths and fetal resorptions and an increase in the number of ossifications in caudal vertebrae were noted at a dose of 9 mg / kg / day ( 3 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 2 and 1 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female mice during gestation days 7 – 13 .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , an increased number of cervical ribs and one fetus with clubbed legs were noted at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 1 and 0 . 2 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 0 . 2 X MTHD and 0 . 1 X MTHD , respectively ) .
No topical embryofetal development studies were conducted with hydrocortisone butyrate lotion .
However , topical embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with a hydrocortisone butyrate ointment formulation .
Topical doses of 1 % and 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 15 or pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 6 – 18 .
A dose - dependent increase in fetal resorptions was noted in rabbits ( 0 . 2 – 2 X MTHD ) and fetal resorptions were noted in rats at the 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose ( 80 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at the 1 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose in rats ( 8 X MTHD ) .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were observed in rabbits after topical administration of hydrocortisone butyrate ointment was not established in this study .
No treatment - related effects on teratogenicity were noted at a dose of 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment in rats or rabbits ( 80 X MTHD and 2 X MTHD , respectively ) .
A peri - and postnatal development study was conducted in rats .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats from gestation day 6 to lactation day 20 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal weight was noted at doses ≥ 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on fetal toxicity were noted at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
A delay in sexual maturation was noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on sexual maturation were noted at 1 . 8 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related effects on behavioral development or subsequent reproductive performance were noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when LOCOID Lotion is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established .
Because of higher skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
They are therefore also at a greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment .
Eighty - four ( 84 ) pediatric subjects ( 3 months to less than 18 years of age ) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis affecting at least 25 % of body surface area ( BSA ) treated with LOCOID Lotion three times daily for up to 4 weeks were assessed for HPA axis suppression .
The disease severity ( moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ) and the dosing regimen ( three times daily ) in this HPA axis study were different from the subject population ( mild to moderate atopic dermatitis ) and the dosing regimen ( twice daily ) for which LOCOID Lotion is indicated .
Seven of the 82 evaluable subjects ( 8 . 5 % ) demonstrated laboratory evidence of suppression , where the sole criterion for defining HPA axis suppression was a serum cortisol level of less than or equal to 18 mcg / dL after cosyntropin stimulation .
Suppressed subjects ranged in age from 1 to 12 years and , at the time of enrollment , had 35 % to 90 % BSA involvement .
These subjects did not develop any other signs or symptoms of HPA axis suppression .
At the first follow - up visit , approximately 1 month after the conclusion of treatment , cosyntropin stimulation results of all subjects had returned to normal , with the exception of one subject .
This last subject recovered adrenal function by the second post - treatment visit , 55 days post - treatment .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have also been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include low plasma cortisol levels to an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of LOCOID Lotion did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION LOCOID ( hydrocortisone butyrate ) Lotion , 0 . 1 % contains hydrocortisone butyrate , a non - fluorinated hydrocortisone ester , for topical use .
The chemical name of hydrocortisone butyrate is Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 21 , - dihydroxy - 17 - [ ( 1 - oxobutyl ) oxy ( 11β ) - ] .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone butyrate is a white to off - white powder with a molecular weight of 432 . 56 , and a molecular formula of C25H36O6 .
It is practically insoluble in water , slightly soluble in ether , soluble in methanol , in alcohol , and in acetone , and freely soluble in chloroform .
Each gram of LOCOID Lotion contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a white to off - white lotion base consisting of anhydrous citric acid , ceteth - 20 , cetostearyl alcohol , butylated hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) , butylparaben , light mineral oil , propylparaben , purified water , safflower oil , sodium citrate , and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics No studies were conducted to determine the pharmacokinetics of LOCOID Lotion .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin , occlusive dressings , or widespread application may increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal rat carcinogenicity study with LOCOID Lotion , hydrocortisone butyrate was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 0 . 05 , 0 . 15 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males and 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 1 % lotion ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest doses evaluated in this study of 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Hydrocortisone butyrate revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitrogenotoxicity tests ( Ames test and L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of fertility or effect on mating performance was observed in a fertility and general reproductive performance study conducted in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to and I ncluding 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
Mild effects on maternal animals , such as reduced food consumption and a subsequent reduction in body weight gain , were seen at doses ≥ 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a multicenter , randomized , vehicle - controlled trial of 284 pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis , LOCOID Lotion or vehicle was applied twice daily for up to 4 weeks .
Treatment success was assessed at day 29 ( after 28 days of treatment ) and was defined as the proportion of patients who achieved both “ clear ” or “ almost clear ” and at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline on a 5 - point Physician ’ s Global Assessment ( PGA ) scale .
Study results are shown in Table 3 .
TABLE 3 .
Efficacy results at Day 29 in pediatric subjects LOCOID Lotion ( n = 139 ) Vehicle ( n = 145 ) Number ( % ) successes 68 ( 49 % ) 35 ( 24 % ) Another multicenter , randomized , double - blind study compared twice - daily treatment with LOCOID Lotion ( n = 151 ) to vehicle ( n = 150 ) for 3 or 4 weeks in adult subjects ( ages 18 years or older ) having atopic dermatitis , including those with mild or moderate severity .
Results favored LOCOID Lotion over vehicle .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LOCOID Lotion , 0 . 1 % is white to off - white in color and supplied in bottles of 2 fl .
oz .
( NDC 16781 - 392 - 02 ) and 4 fl .
oz .
( NDC 16781 - 392 - 04 ) .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients using LOCOID Lotion should receive the following information and instructions : • • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin two times daily and rub in gently .
• • Discontinue LOCOID Lotion when control is achieved .
• • Do not use for longer than 4 weeks .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• • Do not bandage , otherwise cover , or wrap the affected skin area so as to be occlusive unless directed by physician .
• • Do not use LOCOID Lotion in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
• • Do not use LOCOID Lotion on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by physician .
• • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact physician .
• • Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using LOCOID Lotion without first consulting physician .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Ferndale Laboratories , Inc .
Ferndale , MI 48220 USA U . S . Patent Number : 7 , 981 , 877 Locoid is a trademark of Leo Pharma A / S used under license .
© 2021 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9421802 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - LocoidLotion 4 fl .
oz .
Carton NDC 16781 - 392 - 04 Locoid ® ( hydrocortisone butyrate ) Lotion , 0 . 1 % For topical use only Not for eye use Rx only 4 fl .
oz .
( 118 mL ) Ortho Dermatologics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
