VASOCON REGULAR NAPHAZOLINE HYDROCHLORIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION USP , 0 . 1 % DESCRIPTION Naphazoline HCl , an ocular vasoconstrictor , is an imidazoline derivative sympathomimetic amine .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 2 - ( 1 - naphthylmethyl ) - 2 - imidazoline monohydrochloride VASOCON REGULAR ophthalmic solution is a sterile solution containing 1 mg / mL naphazoline hydrochloride in an isotonic solution containing polyethylene glycol 8000 , sodium chloride , polyvinyl alcohol , edetate disodium and purified water ; preserved with benzalkonium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide added to adjust pH . It has a pH of 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naphazoline constricts the vascular system of the conjunctiva .
It is presumed that this effect is due to direct stimulation action of the drug upon the alpha adrenergic receptors in the arterioles of the conjunctiva resulting in decreased conjunctival congestion .
Naphalozine belongs to the imidazoline class of sympathomimetics .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE VASOCON REGULAR is indicated for use as a topical ocular vasoconstrictor .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in the presence of an anatomically narrow angle or in narrow angle glaucoma or in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Patients under therapy with MAO inhibitors may experience a severe hypertensive crisis if given a sympathomimetic drug .
Use in children , especially infants , may result in CNS depression leading to coma and marked reduction in body temperature .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in the presence of hypertension , cardiovascular abnormalities , hyperglycemia ( diabetes ) , hyperthyroidism , ocular infection or injury and when other medications are being used .
Patient Information Patients should be advised to discontinue the drug and consult a physician if relief is not obtained within 48 hours of therapy , if irritation , blurring , or redness persists or increases , or if symptoms of systemic absorption occur , i . e . , dizziness , headache , nausea , decrease in body temperature , or drowsiness .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , do not touch the eyelids or the surrounding area with the dropper tip of the bottle .
If solution changes color or becomes cloudy , do not use .
Drug Interactions Concurrent use of maprotiline or tricyclic antidepressants and naphazoline may potentiate the pressor effect of naphazoline .
Patients under therapy with MAO inhibitors may experience a severe hypertensive crisis if given a sympathomimetic drug .
( See WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with naphazoline .
It is also not known whether naphazoline can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Naphazoline should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers If is not known whether naphazoline is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when naphazoline is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
See “ WARNINGS ” and “ CONTRAINDICATIONS ” .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular Mydriasis , increased redness , irritation , discomfort , blurring , punctate keratitis , lacrimation , increased intraocular pressure .
Systemic Dizziness , headache , nausea , sweating , nervousness drowsiness , weakness , hypertension , cardiac irregularities , and hyperglycemia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops in the conjunctival sac ( s ) every three to four hours as needed .
HOW SUPPLIED VASOCON REGULAR ( naphazoline hydrochloride ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 1 % ) : 15 mL plastic squeeze bottle with dropper tip .
NDC 58768 - 844 - 15 To be dispensed only in original , unopened container .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
CAUTION : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Mfd .
by OMJ Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , San Germán , P . R . , 00683 for : CIBA Vision Ophthalmics ® ___________________ Atlanta , Georgia 30155 6072 - A
