Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat , Dimethicone , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Tocopheryl acetate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Hydrolyzed rice protein , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Panax ginseng root extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Silica , Isopropyl myristate , Sodium benzoate , Tocopherol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Description Specially Designed For Younger Skin When life is fast take control of your skin with No7 ' s Early Defence Skincare , with super light formulations that work to keep young skin looking younger for longer .
This daily skincare system includes our No7 Early Defence Day , Night and Eye Creams , which work together to slow down the effects that everyday life can have on young skin .
Enriched with our unique Double Defence technology - a powerful blend of antioxidants - it works to help protect your skin from every day environmental stress , while a combination of Lipopeptides with Vitamin A helps to reduce the appearance of those first fine lines .
In addition our super light texture helps to keep your skin free from breakouts , leaving you with skin that feels ready for anything .
Formulated by No7 , leaders in anti - ageing skincare science .
DAY CREAM Formulated with the protective power of Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 to give your skin protection from the No1 cause of visible skin ageing .
Double Defence technology protects skin and boosts natural defences against environmental stress .
Upon first application skin feels softer and looks more radiant .
In just 2 weeks the appearance of pores is visibly reduced .
NIGHT CREAM Works while you sleep to help skin recover from the day .
With Double Defence technology to give young skin No7 ' s best night time protection against the damaging effects of free radicals generated from the sun and environmental stress during the day .
EYE CREAM Especially designed for the delicate area around your eyes .
Chases away dark shadows and puffiness and gives young skin a brightening boost .
Skin feels instantly energised and looks more awake .
For Best Results : After cleansing and applying your No7 serum , dot No7 Early Defence Eye Cream around eyes and gently blend around contours .
In the morning , follow with No7 Early Defence Day Cream .
At night , follow with No7 Early Defence Night Cream .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 Day and Night Creams Made in the UK Eye Cream Made in Germany www . boots . com / no7 Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
