SAGENT ® Rx only DESCRIPTION Thiotepa for Injection , USP is an ethylenimine - type compound .
It is supplied as a non - pyrogenic , sterile lyophilized powder for intravenous , intracavitary or intravesical administration , containing 15 mg of thiotepa .
Thiotepa is a synthetic product with antitumor activity .
The chemical name for thiotepa is Aziridine , 1 , 1 ' , 1 '' - phosphinothioylidynetris - , or Tris ( 1 - aziridinyl ) phosphine sulfide .
Thiotepa has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Thiotepa has the empirical formula C6H12N3PS , and a molecular weight of 189 . 22 .
When reconstituted with sterile water for injection , the resulting solution has a pH of approximately 5 . 5 to 7 . 5 .
Thiotepa is stable in alkaline medium and unstable in acid medium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Thiotepa is a cytotoxic agent of the polyfunctional type , related chemically and pharmacologically to nitrogen mustard .
The radiomimetic action of thiotepa is believed to occur through the release of ethylenimine radicals which , like irradiation , disrupt the bonds of DNA .
One of the principal bond disruptions is initiated by alkylation of guanine at the N - 7 position , which severs the linkage between the purine base and the sugar and liberates alkylated guanines .
The pharmacokinetics of thiotepa and TEPA in thirteen female patients ( 45 to 84 years ) with advanced stage ovarian cancer receiving 60 mg and 80 mg thiotepa by intravenous infusion on subsequent courses given at 4 week intervals are presented in the following table : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( units ) Mean ± SEM Thiotepa TEPA 60 mg 80 mg 60 mg 80 mg Peak Serum concentration ( ng / mL ) 1331 ± 119 1828 ± 135 273 ± 46 353 ± 46 Elimination half - life ( h ) 2 . 4 ± 0 . 3 2 . 3 ± 0 . 3 17 . 6 ± 3 . 6 15 . 7 ± 2 . 7 Area under the curve ( ng / h / mL ) 2832 ± 412 4127 ± 668 4789 ± 1022 7452 ± 1667 Total body clearance ( mL / min ) 446 ± 63 419 ± 56 TEPA , which possesses cytotoxic activity , appears to be the major metabolite of thiotepa found in human serum and urine .
Urinary excretion of 14 C - labeled thiotepa and metabolites in a 34 year old patient with metastatic carcinoma of the cecum who received a dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg intravenously was 63 % .
Thiotepa and TEPA in urine each accounts for less than 2 % of the administered dose .
The pharmacokinetics of thiotepa in renal and hepatic dysfunction patients have not been evaluated .
Possible pharmacokinetic interactions of thiotepa with any concomitantly administered medications have not been formally investigated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Thiotepa for Injection has been tried with varying results in the palliation of a wide variety of neoplastic diseases .
However , the most consistent results have been seen in the following tumors : • Adenocarcinoma of the breast .
• Adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
• For controlling intracavitary effusions secondary to diffuse or localized neoplastic diseases of various serosal cavities .
• For the treatment of superficial papillary carcinoma of the urinary bladder .
While now largely superseded by other treatments , Thiotepa for Injection has been effective against other lymphomas , such as lymphosarcoma and Hodgkin ' s disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Thiotepa is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity ( allergy ) to this preparation .
Therapy is probably contraindicated in cases of existing hepatic , renal , or bone - marrow damage .
However , if the need outweighs the risk in such patients , thiotepa may be used in low dosage , and accompanied by hepatic , renal and hemopoietic function tests .
WARNINGS Death has occurred after intravesical administration , caused by bone - marrow depression from systematically absorbed drug .
Death from septicemia and hemorrhage has occurred as a direct result of hematopoietic depression by thiotepa .
Thiotepa is highly toxic to the hematopoietic system .
A rapidly falling white blood cell or platelet count indicates the necessity for discontinuing or reducing the dosage of thiotepa .
Weekly blood and platelet counts are recommended during therapy and for at least 3 weeks after therapy has been discontinued .
Thiotepa can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Thiotepa given by the intraperitoneal ( IP ) route was teratogenic in mice at doses ≥ 1 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / m2 ) , approximately 8 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose ( 0 . 8 mg / kg , 27 mg / m2 ) , based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa given by the IP route was teratogenic in rats at doses ≥ 3 mg / kg ( 21 mg / m2 ) , approximately equal to the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose , based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa was lethal to rabbit fetuses at a dose of 3 mg / kg ( 41 mg / m2 ) , approximately two times the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Effective contraception should be used during thiotepa therapy if either the patient or partner is of childbearing potential .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If thiotepa is used during pregnancy , or if pregnancy occurs during thiotepa therapy , the patient and partner should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Thiotepa is a polyfunctional alkylating agent , capable of cross - linking the DNA within a cell and changing its nature .
The replication of the cell is , therefore , altered , and thiotepa may be described as mutagenic .
An in vitro study has shown that it causes chromosomal aberrations of the chromatid type and that the frequency of induced aberrations increases with the age of the subject .
Like many alkylating agents , thiotepa has been reported to be carcinogenic when administered to laboratory animals .
Carcinogenicity is shown most clearly in studies using mice , but there is some evidence of carcinogenicity in man .
In patients treated with thiotepa , cases of myelodysplastic syndromes and acute non - lymphocytic leukemia have been reported .
PRECAUTIONS General The serious complication of excessive thiotepa therapy , or sensitivity to the effects of thiotepa , is bone - marrow depression .
If proper precautions are not observed thiotepa may cause leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and anemia .
Information for Patients The patient should notify the physician in the case of any sign of bleeding ( epistaxis , easy bruising , change in color of urine , black stool ) or infection ( fever , chills ) or for possible pregnancy to patient or partner .
Effective contraception should be used during thiotepa therapy if either the patient or the partner is of childbearing potential .
Laboratory Tests The most reliable guide to thiotepa toxicity is the white blood cell count .
If this falls to 3 , 000 or less , the dose should be discontinued .
Another good index of thiotepa toxicity is the platelet count ; if this falls to 150 , 000 , therapy should be discontinued .
Red blood cell count is a less accurate indicator of thiotepa toxicity .
If the drug is used in patients with hepatic or renal damage ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) , regular assessment of hepatic and renal function tests are indicated .
Drug Interactions It is not advisable to combine , simultaneously or sequentially , cancer chemotherapeutic agents or a cancer chemotherapeutic agent and a therapeutic modality having the same mechanism of action .
Therefore , thiotepa combined with other alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustard or cyclophosphamide or thiotepa combined with irradiation would serve to intensify toxicity rather than to enhance therapeutic response .
If these agents must follow each other , it is important that recovery from the first agent , as indicated by white blood cell count , be complete before therapy with the second agent is instituted .
Other drugs which are known to produce bone - marrow depression should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Also see WARNINGS section .
Carcinogenesis In mice , repeated IP administration of thiotepa ( 1 . 15 or 2 . 3 mg / kg three times per week for 52 or 43 weeks , respectively ) produced a significant increase in the combined incidence of squamous - cell carcinomas of the skin , preputial gland , and ear canal , and combined incidence of lymphoma and lymphocytic leukemia .
In other studies in mice , repeated IP administration of thiotepa ( 4 or 8 mg / kg three times per week for 4 weeks followed by a 20 week observation period or 1 . 8 mg / kg three times per week for 4 weeks followed by a 35 week observation period ) resulted in an increased incidence of lung tumors .
In rats , repeated IP administration of thiotepa ( 0 . 7 or 1 . 4 mg / kg three times per week for 52 or 34 weeks , respectively ) produced significant increases in the incidence of squamous - cell carcinomas of the skin or ear canal , combined hematopoietic neoplasms , and uterine adenocarcinomas .
Thiotepa given intravenously ( IV ) to rats ( 1 mg / kg once per week for 52 weeks ) produced an increased incidence of malignant tumors ( abdominal cavity sarcoma , lymphosarcoma myelosis , seminoma , fibrosarcoma , salivary gland hemangioendothelioma , mammary sarcoma , pheochromocytoma ) and benign tumors .
The lowest reported carcinogenic dose in mice ( 1 . 15 mg / kg , 3 . 68 mg / m2 ) is approximately 7 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
The lowest reported carcinogenic dose in rats ( 0 . 7 mg / kg , 4 . 9 mg / m2 ) is approximately 6 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Mutagenesis Thiotepa was mutagenic in in vitro assays in Salmonella typhimurium , E coli , Chinese hamster lung and human lymphocytes .
Chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges were observed in vitro with thiotepa in bean root tips , human lymphocytes , Chinese hamster lung , and monkey lymphocytes .
Mutations were observed with oral thiotepa in mouse at doses > 2 . 5 mg / kg ( 8 mg / m2 ) .
The mouse micronucleus test was positive with IP administration of > 1 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / m2 ) .
Other positive in vivo chromosomal aberration or mutation assays included Drosophila melanogaster , Chinese hamster marrow , murine marrow , monkey lymphocyte , and murine germ cell .
Impairment of Fertility Thiotepa impaired fertility in male mice at PO or IP doses ≥ 0 . 7 mg / kg ( 2 . 24 mg / m2 ) , approximately 12 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa ( 0 . 5 mg ) inhibited implantation in female rats when instilled into the uterine cavity .
Thiotepa interfered with spermatogenesis in mice at IP doses ≥ 0 . 5 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 mg / m2 ) , approximately 17 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa interfered with spermatogenesis in hamsters at an IP dose of 1 mg / kg ( 4 . 1 mg / m2 ) , approximately 7 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Pregnancy : Teratagenic Effects - Category D See WARNINGS section .
Thiotepa can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Thiotepa given by the IP route was teratogenic in mice at doses ≥ 1 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / m2 ) , approximately 8 - fold less than the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa given by the IP route was teratogenic in rats at doses ≥ 3 mg / kg ( 21 mg / m2 ) , approximately equal to the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Thiotepa was lethal to rabbit fetuses at a dose of 3 mg / kg ( 41 mg / m2 ) , approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human therapeutic dose based on body - surface area .
Patients of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid pregnancy .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If thiotepa is used during pregnancy , or if pregnancy occurs during thiotepa therapy , the patient and partner should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether thiotepa is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for thiotepa in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of thiotepa did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreasing hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In addition to its effect on the blood - forming elements ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections ) , thiotepa may cause other adverse reactions .
General : Fatigue , weakness .
Febrile reaction and discharge from a subcutaneous lesion may occur as the result of breakdown of tumor tissue .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Allergic reactions - rash , urticaria , laryngeal edema , asthma , anaphylactic shock , wheezing .
Local Reactions : Contact dermatitis , pain at the injection site .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , anorexia .
Renal : Dysuria , urinary retention .
There have been rare reports of chemical cystitis or hemorrhagic cystitis following intravesical , but not parenteral administration of thiotepa .
Respiratory : Prolonged apnea has been reported when succinylcholine was administered prior to surgery , following combined use of thiotepa and other anticancer agents .
It was theorized that this was caused by decrease of pseudocholinesterase activity caused by the anticancer drugs .
Neurologic : Dizziness , headache , blurred vision .
Skin : Dermatitis , alopecia .
Skin depigmentation has been reported following topical use .
Special Senses : Conjunctivitis .
Reproductive : Amenorrhea , interference with spermatogenesis .
OVERDOSAGE Hematopoietic toxicity can occur following overdose , manifested by a decrease in the white cell count and / or platelets .
Red blood cell count is a less accurate indicator of thiotepa toxicity .
Bleeding manifestations may develop .
The patient may become more vulnerable to infection , and less able to combat such infection .
Dosages within and minimally above the recommended therapeutic doses have been associated with potentially life - threatening hematopoietic toxicity .
Thiotepa has a toxic effect on the hematopoietic system that is dose related .
Thiotepa is dialyzable .
There is no known antidote for overdosage with thiotepa .
Transfusions of whole blood or platelets have proven beneficial to the patient in combating hematopoietic toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Since absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is variable , thiotepa for injection should not be administered orally .
Dosage must be carefully individualized .
A slow response to thiotepa for injection does not necessarily indicate a lack of effect .
Therefore , increasing the frequency of dosing may only increase toxicity .
After maximum benefit is obtained by initial therapy , it is necessary to continue the patient on maintenance therapy ( 1 to 4 week intervals ) .
In order to continue optimal effect , maintenance doses should not be administered more frequently than weekly in order to preserve correlation between dose and blood counts .
Preparation and Administration Precautions Thiotepa for injection is a cytotoxic anticancer drug and as with other potentially toxic compounds , caution should be exercised in handling and preparation of thiotepa for injection .
Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to thiotepa for injection may occur .
The use of gloves is recommended .
If thiotepa solution contacts the skin , immediately wash the skin thoroughly with soap and water .
If thiotepa for injection contacts mucous membranes , the membranes should be flushed thoroughly with water .
Preparation of Solution Thiotepa for injection should be reconstituted with 1 . 5 mL of sterile water for injection resulting in a drug concentration of approximately 10 mg per mL .
The actual withdrawable quantities and concentration achieved are illustrated in the following table : Label Claim ( mg per vial ) Actual Content ( mg per vial ) Amount of Diluent to be Added ( mL ) Approximate Withdrawable Volume ( mL ) Approximate Withdrawable Amount ( mg per vial ) Approximate Reconstituted Concentration ( mg per mL ) 15 15 . 6 1 . 5 1 . 4 14 . 7 10 . 4 The reconstituted solution is hypotonic and should be further diluted with sodium chloride injection ( 0 .
9 % sodium chloride ) before use .
When reconstituted with sterile water for injection , solutions of thiotepa should be stored in a refrigerator and used within 8 hours .
Reconstituted solutions further diluted with sodium chloride injection should be used immediately .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
In order to eliminate haze , filter solutions through a 0 . 22 micron filter * prior to administration .
Filtering does not alter solution potency .
Reconstituted solutions should be clear .
Solutions that remain opaque or precipitate after filtration should not be used .
* Polysulfone membrane ( Gelman ' s Sterile Aerodisc ® , Single Use ) or triton - free mixed ester of cellulose / PVC ( Millipore ' s MILLEX ® - GS Filter Unit ) .
Initial and Maintenance Doses Initially the higher dose in the given range is commonly administered .
The maintenance dose should be adjusted weekly on the basis of pretreatment control blood counts and subsequent blood counts .
Intravenous Administration Thiotepa for injection may be given by rapid intravenous administration in doses of 0 . 3 to 0 . 4 mg / kg .
Doses should be given at 1 to 4 week intervals .
Intracavitary Administration The dosage recommended is 0 . 6 to 0 . 8 mg / kg .
Administration is usually effected through the same tubing which is used to remove the fluid from the cavity involved .
Intravesical Administration Patients with papillary carcinoma of the bladder are dehydrated for 8 to 12 hours prior to treatment .
Then 60 mg of thiotepa for injection in 30 to 60 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection is instilled into the bladder by catheter .
For maximum effect , the solution should be retained for 2 hours .
If the patient finds it impossible to retain 60 mL for 2 hours , the dose may be given in a volume of 30 mL .
If desired , the patient may be positioned every 15 minutes for maximum area contact .
The usual course of treatment is once a week for 4 weeks .
The course may be repeated if necessary , but second and third courses must be given with caution since bone - marrow depression may be increased .
Deaths have occurred after intravesical administration , caused by bone - marrow depression from systemically absorbed drug .
Handling and Disposal Follow safe cytotoxic agent handling procedures .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
HOW SUPPLIED Thiotepa for Injection , USP is supplied as follows : NDC Thiotepa for Injection , USP Package Factor 25021 - 246 - 02 15 mg Single - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton Storage Conditions Store refrigerated between 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Discard unused portion .
Lyophilized Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 866 - 625 - 1618 .
REFERENCES • Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs .
NIH Publication No . 83 - 2621 .
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , US Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 .
• AMA Council Report .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA .
1985 ; 253 ( 11 ) : 1590 - 1592 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure - Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , ScD , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , Massachusetts 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia : Guidelines and recommendations for safe handling of antineoplastic agents .
Med J Australia .
1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
• Jones RB , et al .
Safe handling of chemotherapeutic agents : A report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
Ca - A Cancer Journal for Clinicians .
Sept / Oct 1983 ; 258 - 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists technical assistance bulletin on handling cytotoxic and hazardous drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm .
1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA WORK - PRACTICE GUIDELINES ) .
AM J Health - Syst Pharm .
1996 : 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
Brands listed are the trademarks of their respective owners .
SAGENT ® Mfd .
for SAGENT Pharmaceuticals Schaumburg , IL 60195 ( USA ) Made in China © 2018 Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
April 2018 SAGENT Pharmaceuticals ® PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 25021 - 246 - 02 Rx only Thiotepa for Injection , USP 15 mg per vial For Intravenous , Intracavitary or Intravesical Use Caution : Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
