1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE IMPOYZ Cream 0 . 025 % is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age and older .
IMPOYZ Cream is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of IMPOYZ Cream to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
Use IMPOYZ Cream for up to 2 consecutive weeks of treatment .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Discontinue IMPOYZ Cream when control is achieved .
Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area unless directed by a physician .
Avoid use on the face , scalp , axilla , groin , or other intertriginous areas .
IMPOYZ Cream is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Wash hands after each application .
• Apply a thin layer of IMPOYZ Cream to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
Wash hands after each application .
Use IMPOYZ Cream for up to 2 consecutive weeks of treatment .
( 2 ) • Discontinue IMPOYZ Cream when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • The total dosage should not exceed 50 g per week ( 2 ) • Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face , scalp , axilla , groin , or other intertriginous areas .
( 2 ) • IMPOYZ Cream is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 025 % : each gram contains 0 . 25 mg of clobetasol propionate in a white to off - white cream base .
Cream , 0 . 025 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Clobetasol propionate has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the dose tested .
( 5 . 1 ) • Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 ) • Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops .
( 5 . 1 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , prolonged use , or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including clobetasol propionate .
These reactions include : irritation , dryness , acneiform eruptions , hypertrichosis , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , striae and miliaria .
( 5 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Effects on the Endocrine System IMPOYZ Cream can cause reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids , including IMPOYZ Cream , may require that patients be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high - potency steroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and young age .
Evaluation for HPA axis suppression may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test .
In a trial evaluating the effects of IMPOYZ Cream on the HPA axis , subjects with plaque psoriasis applied IMPOYZ Cream twice daily to at least 20 % of involved Body Surface Area ( BSA ) for 15 days .
Abnormal ACTH stimulation tests suggestive of HPA axis suppression were seen in 3 of 24 ( 12 . 5 % ) subjects on IMPOYZ Cream [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
In another trial to evaluate the effects of IMPOYZ Cream on the HPA axis , subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis applied IMPOYZ Cream twice daily to at least 25 % of involved BSA for 28 consecutive days .
Abnormal ACTH stimulation test suggestive of HPA axis suppression was seen in 8 of 26 ( 30 . 8 % ) of subjects on IMPOYZ Cream .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid .
If signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal occur , supplemental systemic corticosteroids may be required .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also manifest as Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
These complications are rare and generally occur after prolonged exposure to larger than recommended doses , particularly with high - potency topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Minimize the unwanted risks from endocrine effects by mitigating risk factors favoring increased systemic bioavailability and by using the product as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity because of their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions from topical corticosteroids may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasias , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
These may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use , or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including IMPOYZ Cream .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Concomitant Skin Infections Use an appropriate antimicrobial agent if a skin infection is present or develops .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , discontinue use of IMPOYZ Cream until the infection has been adequately treated .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If irritation develops , discontinue the topical corticosteroid and institute appropriate therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) is application site discoloration .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Encore Dermatology , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 848 - 6543 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug , and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
IMPOYZ Cream was evaluated in two randomized , multicenter , prospective , vehicle - controlled clinical trials in subjects with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis .
Subjects applied IMPOYZ Cream or vehicle cream twice daily for 14 days .
A total of 354 subjects applied IMPOYZ Cream and 178 subjects applied vehicle .
The adverse reaction that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with IMPOYZ Cream and at a higher incidence than in subjects treated with vehicle cream was application site discoloration ( 2 % versus 1 % ) .
Less common local adverse events occurring in < 1 % of subjects treated with IMPOYZ Cream were application site atrophy , telangiectasia and rash .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clobetasol propionate : striae , irritation , dryness , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , hypertrichosis , and miliaria .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on IMPOYZ Cream in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Published data report a significantly increased risk of low birthweight with the use of greater than 300 grams of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid during a pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use IMPOYZ Cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , increased malformations , such as cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities , were observed after subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate to pregnant mice and rabbits .
No comparisons of animal exposure with human exposure are provided due to minimal systemic exposure noted after topical administration of IMPOYZ Cream [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Multiple observational studies found no significant associations between maternal use of topical corticosteroids of any potency and congenital malformations , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality .
However , when the dispensed amount of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , use was associated with an increase in low birth weight infants [ adjusted RR , 7 . 74 ( 95 % CI , 1 . 49 – 40 . 11 ) ] .
In addition , a small cohort study , in which 28 sub - Saharan women using potent topical corticosteroids ( 27 / 28 used clobetasol propionate 0 . 05 % ) for skin lightening during pregnancy , noted a higher incidence of low birth weight infants in the exposed group .
The majority of exposed subjects treated large areas of the body ( a mean quantity of 60 g / month ( range , 12 – 170 g ) over long periods of time .
Animal Data In an embryofetal development study in mice , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and malformations at the lowest dose tested ( 0 . 03 mg / kg ) .
Malformations seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In an embryofetal development study in rabbits , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate resulted in malformations at doses of 0 . 003 and 0 . 01 mg / kg .
Malformations seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of clobetasol propionate in breast milk or its effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of clobetasol propionate could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for IMPOYZ Cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from IMPOYZ Cream or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breast milk , use IMPOYZ Cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply IMPOYZ Cream directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of IMPOYZ Cream in patients younger than 18 years of age have not been established ; therefore , use in children younger than 18 years is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of systemic toxicity , including HPA axis suppression , when treated with topical drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Rare systemic toxicities such as Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients , especially those with prolonged exposure to large doses of high potency topical corticosteroids .
Local adverse reactions including striae and skin atrophy have also been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
Avoid use of IMPOYZ Cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of IMPOYZ Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience with topical corticosteroids has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION IMPOYZ ( clobetasol propionate ) Cream , 0 . 025 % for topical use contains clobetasol propionate , a synthetic and fluorinated corticosteroid .
Chemically , clobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11β - hydroxy - 16β - methyl - 3 , 20 - dioxopregna - 1 , 4 - dien - 17 - yl propanoate , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate has a molecular formula of C25H32ClFO5 and a molecular weight of 467 .
It is a white to cream - colored crystalline powder practically insoluble in water .
Each gram of IMPOYZ ™ Cream contains 0 . 25 mg clobetasol propionate .
It is an oil - in - water emulsion intended for topical application and contains the following inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , cetostearyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , glyceryl stearate and PEG 100 stearate , isopropyl myristate , methyl paraben , propyl paraben , purified water and white wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in corticosteroid responsive dermatoses is unknown .
The contribution to efficacy by individual components of the vehicle has not been established .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay IMPOYZ Cream , 0 . 025 % is in the high range of potency as demonstrated in vasoconstrictor studies in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression : HPA axis suppression was evaluated in a clinical trial in adult subjects ( N = 24 ) with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis involving a mean BSA of 26 . 5 ± 8 . 6 % .
Treatment consisted of twice daily application of IMPOYZ Cream , 0 . 025 % for 15 days .
Adrenal suppression , as indicated by a 30 - minute post - stimulation cortisol level ≤ 18 mcg / dL , was observed in 3 out of 24 subjects ( 12 . 5 % ) after 15 days .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the product formulation and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation , and / or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
In a pharmacokinetic study in 24 adult male and female subjects with moderate to severe psoriasis were treated twice daily for 15 days with a mean dose of approximately 3 . 7 g of IMPOYZ Cream , 0 . 025 % per application to a mean BSA of 26 . 5 ± 8 . 6 % .
On day 15 , the mean ± SD pre - treatment and post - treatment systemic concentrations of clobetasol propionate were 50 . 7 ± 96 . 0 pg / mL and 56 . 3 ± 104 . 7 pg / mL ; respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate cream .
In a 13 - week repeat dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 001 , 0 . 005 and 0 . 025 % at corresponding doses of 0 . 004 , 0 . 02 and 0 . 1 mg / kg / day resulted in corticosteroid class - related systemic effects such as reductions in body weight gain , reductions in total leukocytes and individual white cells , decrease in weight of adrenals , thymus , spleen , liver and lung .
Histologically , there were decreased hematopoiesis in the bone marrow , thymic atrophy and mast cell infiltration of the mesenteric lymph nodes .
All these effects were indicative of severe immune suppression consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids .
A no observable adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was determined to be clobetasol propionate cream , 0 . 001 % ( 0 . 004 mg / kg / day ) in male rats while a NOAEL could not be determined in females .
The clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , but sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk of carcinogenesis .
Clobetasol propionate was not mutagenic in three different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Fertility studies conducted in the rat following subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate at dosage levels up to 0 . 05 mg / kg / day revealed that females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two double - blind , randomized , vehicle - controlled trials evaluated 532 subjects aged 18 years and older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis ( IGA 3 or 4 and BSA ≥ 3 % ) .
Subjects were treated twice daily with IMPOYZ Cream or vehicle cream for 14 days .
The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects who achieved treatment success at Day 15 , where treatment success was defined as an IGA score of 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( almost clear ) with at least a 2 - grade reduction from baseline .
The proportion of subjects who achieved treatment success was also assessed at Day 8 .
Table 1 presents the efficacy results at Day 8 and Day 15 .
Table 1 .
Treatment Success * Results * Treatment success is defined as an IGA score of 0 ( clear ) or 1 ( almost clear ) with at least a 2 - grade reduction from baseline .
Trial 1 Trial 2 IMPOYZ ( N = 178 ) Vehicle ( N = 89 ) IMPOYZ ( N = 176 ) Vehicle ( N = 89 ) Day 15 ( primary endpoint ) 30 . 2 % 9 . 0 % 30 . 1 % 9 . 7 % Day 8 ( secondary endpoint ) 15 . 7 % 5 . 6 % 14 . 2 % 1 . 6 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied IMPOYZ Cream , 0 . 025 % is a white to off - white cream , supplied as follows : 60 g aluminum tube NDC 69482 - 700 - 60 100 g aluminum tube NDC 6984 - 700 - 99 16 . 2 Storage Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use IMPOYZ Cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a woman to use IMPOYZ cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply IMPOYZ Cream directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) .
Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to discontinue IMPOYZ Cream when psoriasis is controlled .
IMPOYZ Cream should not be used for longer than 2 weeks .
Advise patients to contact the physician if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
Inform patients that total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Instruct patients to avoid bandaging , wrapping or otherwise occluding the treatment area ( s ) , unless directed by physician .
Advise patients to avoid use on the face , scalp , groin , or axillae [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Inform patients that IMPOYZ Cream is for external use only .
Advise patients that IMPOYZ Cream is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Patients should wash their hands after applying the medication [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using IMPOYZ Cream .
Effects on Endocrine System IMPOYZ Cream may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of topical corticosteroids , including IMPOYZ Cream , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
Concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Patients should inform their physician ( s ) that they are using IMPOYZ Cream if surgery is contemplated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Inform patients that topical corticosteroids may cause local adverse reactions , some of which may be irreversible .
These reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids , including IMPOYZ Cream [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Patients should report any signs of local or systemic adverse reactions to their physician .
Manufactured by DPT Laboratories Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 For Encore Dermatology , Inc .
Scottsdale , AZ 85254 IMPOYZ is a registered trademark of Encore Dermatology , Inc .
www . encorederm . com Revised : 11 / 2019 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 11 / 2017 PATIENT INFORMATION IMPOYZ ® ( Im - poise ) ( clobetasol propionate ) Cream , 0 . 025 % Important : IMPOYZ Cream is for use on the skin only .
Do not get IMPOYZ Cream near or in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is IMPOYZ Cream ?
IMPOYZ Cream is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in people 18 years of age and older .
It is not known if IMPOYZ Cream is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
IMPOYZ Cream is not recommended for use in children under 18 years of age .
Before using IMPOYZ Cream , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) at the treatment site .
• have a skin infection .
You may need a medicine to treat the skin infection before using IMPOYZ Cream .
• have diabetes .
• have adrenal gland problems .
• plan to have surgery .
• liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if IMPOYZ Cream will harm your unborn baby .
If you use IMPOYZ Cream during pregnancy , use IMPOYZ Cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if IMPOYZ Cream passes into breast milk .
Breastfeeding women should use IMPOYZ Cream on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed while breastfeeding .
Do not apply IMPOYZ Cream directly to the nipple and areola to avoid contact with your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take .
including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take other corticosteroid medicines by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
Do not use other products containing a corticosteroid medicine with IMPOYZ Cream without talking to your doctor first .
How should I use IMPOYZ Cream ?
• Use IMPOYZ Cream exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Your doctor should tell you how much IMPOYZ Cream to use and where to apply it .
• Apply a thin layer of IMPOYZ Cream to the affected skin areas 2 times each day and rub in gently and completely .
• Use IMPOYZ Cream for the shortest amount of time needed to treat your plaque psoriasis .
Tell your doctor if your skin condition is not getting better after 2 weeks of using IMPOYZ .
Do not use IMPOYZ Cream for longer than 2 weeks in a row .
• Do not use IMPOYZ Cream on your face , scalp , underarms ( armpits ) , groin , or areas where your skin may touch or rub together .
• Do not use IMPOYZ Cream if thinning of the skin ( atrophy ) is present at the treatment site .
• Do not bandage , cover , or wrap the treated skin area unless your doctor tells you to .
• Wash your hand after you apply IMPOYZ Cream .
• See your doctor regularly to check your symptoms and side effects while using IMPOYZ Cream .
What are the possible side effects of IMPOYZ Cream ?
IMPOYZ Cream may cause serious side effects , including : • Symptoms of a disorder where the adrenal gland does not make enough of certain hormones ( adrenal insufficiency ) during treatment or after stopping treatment with IMPOYZ Cream .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check for adrenal gland problems during treatment with IMPOYZ Cream .
• Cushing syndrome , a condition that can happen when your body is exposed to too much of the hormone cortisol .
Your doctor may do tests to check for this .
• High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) or diabetes mellitus that has not been diagnosed can happen with treatment .
Your doctor may do tests to check for this .
• Skin reactions at the treated skin site .
Tell your doctor if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
• Effects on growth and weight in children .
The most common side effect of IMPOYZ Cream includes discoloration of the treated site .
This is notthe only possible side effect of IMPOYZ Cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store IMPOYZ Cream ?
• Store IMPOYZ Cream between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
• Throw away ( discard ) any unused IMPOYZ Cream after 2 weeks .
Keep IMPOYZ Cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of IMPOYZ Cream .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use IMPOYZ Cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give IMPOYZ Cream to other people even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about IMPOYZ Cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in IMPOYZ Cream ?
Active ingredient : clobetasol propionate Inactive ingredients : butylated hydroxytoluene , cetostearyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , glyceryl stearate and PEG 100 stearate , isopropyl myristate , methyl paraben , propyl paraben , purified water and white wax .
Manufactured by DPT Laboratories Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 For Encore Dermatology , Inc .
Scottsdale , AZ 85254 Revised : 11 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69482 - 700 - 99 - Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 69482 - 700 - 99 - Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
