WARNING : SEVERE BRONCHOCONSTRICTION WARNING : SEVERE BRONCHOCONSTRICTION Severe bronchoconstriction can result from Provocholine administration ( including the lowest dose ) .
The use of Provocholine is contraindicated in pediatric and adult patients with baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted or adults with FEV1 < 1 . 5 L . Because of the potential for severe bronchoconstriction , the use of Provocholine in patients with clinically apparent asthma or wheezing is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Emergency equipment and medication should be immediately available to treat acute respiratory distress .
If severe bronchoconstriction occurs , reverse immediately with a rapid - acting inhaled bronchodilator agent ( β - agonist ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If baseline spirometry is not performed or is measured inaccurately , the initial FEV1 may be underestimated .
In this situation , decreases in FEV1 may not be detected after administration of escalating Provocholine doses , which may result in administration of unnecessary higher doses and an increased risk for excessive bronchoconstriction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : SEVERE BRONCHOCONSTRICTION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Severe bronchoconstriction can result from Provocholine administration ( including the lowest dose ) ( 5 . 1 ) • Use of Provocholine is contraindicated in pediatric and adult patients with baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted or adults • with FEV1 < 1 . 5 L ( 5 . 1 ) • Use of Provocholine is not recommended in patients with clinically apparent asthma or wheezing ( 5 . 1 ) • If severe bronchoconstriction occurs , reverse immediately with a rapid - acting inhaled bronchodilator agent ( β - Agonist ) ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Provocholine , used in a methacholine challenge test , is indicated for the diagnosis of bronchial airway hyperreactivity in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older who do not have clinically apparent asthma .
Provocholine , a cholinergic agonist used in a methacholine challenge test , is indicated for the diagnosis of bronchial airway hyperreactivity in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older who do not have clinically apparent asthma ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The methacholine challenge test should be conducted in a pulmonary function laboratory or clinic , by adequately trained personnel , for safety and accuracy ( 2 . 1 ) • Determine baseline FEV1 values to assess whether a patient is able to undergo the methacholine challenge test ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dosage ( s ) of Provocholine in the Methacholine Challenge Test is administration of increasing concentrations of Provocholine solution via nebulization ( 2 . 2 ) • Administer using either the 5 - Breath Dosimeter Dosing Method or the 2 - Minute Tidal Breathing Dosing Method with the doubling or quadrupling stepwise protocols ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) • See the Full Prescribing Information for the required reconstitution and dilution procedures prior to use ( 2 . 3 ) • See the Full Prescribing Information for the calculation and interpretation of the results ( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Methacholine Challenge Test Overview • Provocholine should be administered in a methacholine challenge test in a pulmonary function laboratory or clinic , by adequately trained personnel , for safety and accuracy , and should be performed only under the responsibility of a healthcare practitioner trained in and thoroughly familiar with all aspects of the technique of the test and the management of respiratory distress .
Emergency medication and equipment should be immediately available to treat acute respiratory distress .
• Only consider Provocholine use in patients on chronic asthma drugs if the accuracy of the asthma diagnosis is in doubt .
In these patients , only administer Provocholine if spirometry is normal after supervised withdrawal of the asthma drugs .
• Provocholine is not recommended for use in patients with clinically apparent asthma or wheezing .
• Before starting a methacholine challenge test , baseline spirometry must be performed .
For a patient to be able to undergo the test , he or she must present with baseline FEV1 ( Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second ) greater than or equal to 60 % of the predicted value ( in adults and children ) and greater than or equal to 1 . 5 L ( in adults ) .
• Do not use Provocholine in pediatric and adult patients with baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted or in adults with FEV1 < 1 . 5 L [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• At commencement of the methacholine challenge test and prior to nebulization with Provocholine dose ( s ) , FEV1 must be measured following exposure to nebulized diluent or base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) to obtain the post - diluent FEV1 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) ] .
• Provocholine powder for inhalation solution requires reconstitution and dilution before use ( see Reconstitution and Dilution Prior to Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ) .
• Provocholine inhalation solution ( in a ready - to - use kit ) does not require reconstitution and / or dilution .
• Administer Provocholine by oral inhalation using either the 5 - Breath Dosimeter Dosing Method or the 2 - Minute Tidal Breathing Dosing Method with the doubling or quadrupling stepwise protocols [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) ] .
• Discard any unused solution from the nebulizer after each administration .
• May use Provocholine with or without meals .
• The methacholine challenge test is considered positive if there is a reduction in FEV1 of 20 % or more from post - diluent FEV1 .
The test should be stopped at this point .
The reduction value must be calculated and recorded before starting the test with Provocholine ( see Calculation and Interpretation of Methacholine Challenge Test Results ( 2 . 6 ) ) .
• An inhaled β agonist must be administered after a methacholine challenge test with Provocholine to expedite the return of the FEV1 to baseline and to relieve any discomfort of the subject .
Most patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 10 to 20 minutes following administration of a β agonist .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of Provocholine powder for inhalation solution ( require reconstitution and dilution ) or inhalation solution ( in a ready - to - use kit ) used in the methacholine challenge test administered via nebulization in adult and pediatric patients ( 5 years or older ) is increasing concentrations of methacholine chloride solutions using either doubling or quadrupling dosing concentrations .
Please refer to Table 3 for the doubling or quadrupling dosing concentrations .
2 . 3 Reconstitution and Dilution Prior to Administration 1 .
Provocholine Powder for Inhalation Solution requires reconstitution before use ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) : Add 6 . 25 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ( 0 . 9 % saline ) or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection with 0 . 4 % phenol ( 0 . 9 % saline with 0 . 4 % phenol ) to the supplied vials containing 100 mg of Provocholine powder .
Shake the vial to obtain a clear solution .
2 .
Dilute the reconstituted Provocholine solution : Using sterile , empty USP Type 1 borosilicate glass vials , dilute the reconstituted Provocholine solution with 0 . 9 % saline or 0 . 9 % saline with 0 . 4 % phenol either by doubling the concentration ( see Table 1 ) or quadrupling the concentration ( see Table 2 ) .
After adding the diluent , shake each vial to obtain a clear solution .
Use the same diluent to prepare all concentrations 3 .
Use a sterile bacterial - retentive filter ( porosity 0 . 22 µm ) when transferring the reconstituted or diluted solution from each vial ( at least 2 mL ) to a nebulizer .
4 .
Refrigerate the reconstituted and diluted solutions at 36 oF to 46 oF ( 2 oC to 8 oC ) for up to 2 weeks .
Since the temperature of the solution affects nebulizer output , solutions should be taken out of the refrigerator and allowed to equilibrate to room temperature ( approximately 30 minutes ) before use .
Table 1 : Reconstitution and Dilution of Supplied Provocholine powder for inhalation solution : Doubling Concentrations TAKE ADD 0 . 9 % Saline or 0 . 9 % Saline with 0 . 4 % Phenol Concentration ( Total Volume ) after reconstitution or dilution 100 mg of Provocholine Powder in one supplied vial 6 . 25 mL 16 mg / mL ( 6 . 25 mL ) ( Solution A ) 3 mL of Solution A 3 mL 8 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution B ) 3 mL of Solution B 3 mL 4 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution C ) 3 mL of Solution C 3 mL 2 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution D ) 3 mL of Solution D 3 mL 1 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution E ) 3 mL of Solution E 3 mL 0 . 5 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution F ) 3 mL of Solution F 3 mL 0 . 25 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution G ) 3 mL of Solution G 3 mL 0 . 125 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution H ) 3 mL of Solution H 3 mL 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( 6 mL ) ( Solution I ) Table 2 : Reconstitution and Dilution of Supplied Provocholine powder for inhalation solution : Quadrupling Concentrations TAKE ADD 0 . 9 % Saline or 0 . 9 % Saline with 0 . 4 % Phenol Concentration ( Total Volume ) after reconstitution or dilution 100 mg of Provocholine Powder in one supplied vial 6 . 25 mL 16 mg / mL ( 6 . 25 mL ) ( Solution 1 ) 3 mL of Solution 1 9 mL 4 mg / mL ( 12 mL ) ( Solution 2 ) 3 mL of Solution 2 9 mL 1 mg / mL ( 12 mL ) ( Solution 3 ) 3 mL of Solution 3 9 mL 0 . 25 mg / mL ( 12 mL ) ( Solution 4 ) 3 mL of Solution 4 9 mL 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( 12 mL ) ( Solution 5 ) 2 . 4 Administration with the Five ( 5 ) - Breath Dosimeter Dosing Method in Patients 5 Years of Age and Older Prior to administering the Provocholine dose ( s ) , determine the post - diluent FEV1 value required for the methacholine challenge test .
Administration of the Diluent or Base to Obtain Post - Diluent FEV1 Value 1 .
For the Provocholine powder for inhalation solution : Using a 3 mL syringe and needle , draw up 2 to 3 mL of the same diluent used to reconstitute the Provocholine Powder ( 0 . 9 % saline or 0 . 9 % saline with 0 . 4 % phenol ) and dispense into the nebulizer using a sterile bacterial - retentive filter ( porosity 0 . 22 µm ) .
For the Provocholine inhalation solution : Dispense the contents of a vial containing the base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) into the nebulizer .
2 .
Instruct the patient to hold the nebulizer upright with the mouthpiece in his / her mouth .
The patient should wear a nose clip while inhaling from the nebulizer .
3 .
At the end of exhalation during tidal breathing ( functional residual capacity ) , instruct the patient to inhale slowly and deeply through the mouthpiece .
Trigger the dosimeter soon after oral inhalation begins .
Encourage the patient to continue inhaling slowly ( about 5 seconds to complete the inhalation ) and to hold the breath at total lung capacity ( TLC ) for another 5 seconds .
4 .
Repeat Step 3 for a total of five inspiratory capacity inhalations .
Take no more than 2 minutes to perform these 5 inhalations .
5 .
Perform spirometry and measure the FEV1 30 and 90 seconds after the fifth inhalation from the nebulizer to obtain the post - diluent FEV1 value .
These values may be left at ambient ( spirometer ) temperature pressure saturated ( ATPS ) .
If the FEV1 value is not of acceptable quality , repeat the procedure .
If the post - diluent FEV1 falls by ≥ 20 % from baseline FEV1 , do not give further inhalations and proceed to Step 8 .
If the post - diluent FEV1 falls by < 20 % from baseline FEV1 , continue to Step 6 .
Administration of Provocholine in a Methacholine Challenge Test 6 .
For the Provocholine powder for inhalation : Using a 3 mL syringe and needle , draw up the recommended Provocholine concentration ( see Table 3 ) that was prepared using either the doubling or quadrupling dose method and dispense into the nebulizer using a sterile bacterial - retentive filter ( porosity 0 . 22 µm ) .
See Tables 1 and 2 for preparation of the Provocholine powder for inhalation solution .
Table 3 : Recommended Provocholine Dose ( s ) By Nebulization [ Doubling Dose ( s ) or Quadrupling Dose ( s ) ] Doubling Dose Increments Provocholine Concentration Provocholine Dose * 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( Solution I ) 1 . 484 mcg 0 . 125 mg / mL ( Solution H ) 2 . 969 mcg 0 . 25 mg / mL ( Solution G ) 5 . 938 mcg 0 . 5 mg / mL ( Solution F ) 11 . 875 mcg 1 mg / mL ( Solution E ) 23 . 75 mcg 2 mg / mL ( Solution D ) 47 . 5 mcg 4 mg / mL ( Solution C ) 95 mcg 8 mg / mL ( Solution B ) 190 mcg 16 mg / mL ( Solution A ) 380 mcg Quadrupling Dose Increments Provocholine Concentration Provocholine Dose * 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( Solution 5 ) 1 . 484 mcg 0 . 25 mg / mL ( Solution 4 ) 5 . 938 mcg 1 mg / mL ( Solution 3 ) 23 . 75 mcg 4 mg / mL ( Solution 2 ) 95 mcg 16 mg / mL ( Solution 1 ) 380 mcg * Dose delivered based on the drug output of the English Wright Nebulizer and the duration of inhalation ( 2 minutes ) .
For the Provocholine inhalation solution : Dispense the contents of a vial of the appropriate Provocholine concentration , starting with the lowest dose , into the nebulizer .
The Provocholine solution concentrations , 0 . 0625 mg / mL , 0 . 25 mg / mL , 1 mg / mL , 4 mg / mL , and 16 mg / mL , provided in the kit are ready - to - use .
No further dilution is required .
7 .
Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each Provocholine concentration , emptying the nebulizer between each concentration .
To keep the cumulative effect of Provocholine relatively constant , the time interval between the commencement of two subsequent concentrations should be kept to 5 minutes .
8 .
Stop dosing if the FEV1 has fallen by ≥ 20 % from the post - diluent FEV1 , or the highest Provocholine concentration ( 16 mg / mL ) has been administered ( whichever comes first ) .
Do not administer additional Provocholine concentrations if severe bronchoconstriction occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
9 .
After the test is completed , administer an inhaled β - agonist to the patient to expedite the return of the FEV1 to within 90 % of baseline and to relieve any discomfort ( the majority of patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 5 minutes after β - agonist administration ; in contrast the majority of patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 30 - 45 minutes without β - agonist administration ) .
Wait 10 minutes and measure the FEV1 and Vital Capacity .
Patients should not be allowed to leave the laboratory until their FEV1 has returned to within 90 % of baseline .
10 .
After the test , wash and clean reusable nebulizers thoroughly according to manufacturer ’ s recommendations .
2 . 5 Administration with the Two ( 2 ) - Minute Tidal Breathing Dosing Method in Patients 5 Years of Age and Older Administer the diluent and the Provocholine dose ( s ) using the English Wright nebulizer or other suitable nebulizer as long as the device output and particle size are characterized .
Prior to administering the Provocholine dose ( s ) , determine the post - diluent FEV1 required for the methacholine challenge test .
Administration of the Diluent or Base Solution to Obtain Post - Diluent FEV1 Value 1 .
For the Provocholine powder for inhalation solution : Using a 3 mL syringe and needle , draw up 2 to 3 mL of the same diluent used to reconstitute the Provocholine powder ( 0 . 9 % saline or 0 . 9 % saline with 0 . 4 % phenol ) and dispense into the nebulizer using a sterile bacterial - retentive filter ( porosity 0 . 22 µm ) .
For the Provocholine inhalation solution : Dispense the contents of a vial containing the base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) into the nebulizer .
2 .
Instruct the patient to relax and breathe the aerosol quietly ( tidal breathing ) for 2 minutes of inhalation time .
3 .
Place the face mask loosely over the nose and mouth or the mouthpiece in the mouth ( with a nose clip ) of the patient .
The patient should hold the nebulizer to avoid warming the solution .
Nebulizer should be kept upright and vertical .
4 .
Start the nebulizer by adjusting the flow meter so that the nebulizer is operating at the calibrated output ( 0 . 13 mL / minute for the English Wright nebulizer ) .
Start the stopwatch immediately .
5 .
After exactly 2 minutes , turn off the flow meter , remove the face mask ( or the mouthpiece from the mouth ) , and discard any remaining solution .
6 .
Perform spirometry and measure the FEV1 30 and 90 seconds after the end of the inhalation to obtain the post - diluent FEV1 .
These values may be left at ambient ( spirometer ) temperature pressure saturated ( ATPS ) .
If the FEV1 value is not of acceptable quality , repeat the procedure .
If the post - diluent FEV1 falls by ≥ 20 % from baseline FEV1 , do not give further inhalations and proceed to Step 9 .
If the post - diluent FEV1 falls by < 20 % from baseline FEV1 , continue to Step 7 .
Administration of Provocholine in a Methacholine Challenge Test 7 .
For the Provocholine powder for inhalation solution : Using a 3 mL syringe and needle , draw up the recommended Provocholine dose ( see Table 3 ) using either the doubling or quadrupling dose method and dispense into the nebulizer using a sterile bacterial - retentive filter ( porosity 0 . 22 µm ) .
See Tables 1 and 2 for preparation of the Provocholine powder for inhalation .
For the Provocholine inhalation solution : Dispense the contents of a vial of the appropriate Provocholine concentration , starting with the lowest dose , into the nebulizer .
The Provocholine solution concentrations , 0 . 0625 mg / mL , 0 . 25 mg / mL , 1 mg / mL , 4 mg / mL , and 16 mg / mL , provided in the kit are ready - to - use .
No further dilution is required .
8 .
Repeat steps 2 through 6 for each Provocholine dose , emptying the nebulizer between each dose .
However , stop dosing if the FEV1 has fallen by ≥ 20 % from the post - diluent FEV1 or the highest Provocholine concentration ( 16 mg / mL ) has been administered ( whichever comes first ) .
Do not administer additional Provocholine doses if severe bronchoconstriction occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
9 .
After the test is completed , administer an inhaled β - agonist to the patient to expedite the return of the FEV1 to within 90 % of baseline and to relieve any discomfort ( the majority of patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 5 minutes after β - agonist administration ; in contrast the majority of patients revert to normal pulmonary function within 30 - 45 minutes without β - agonist administration ) .
Wait 10 minutes and measure the FEV1 and Vital Capacity .
Patients should not be allowed to leave the laboratory until their FEV1 has returned to within 90 % of baseline .
10 .
After the test , wash and clean reusable nebulizers thoroughly according to manufacturer ’ s recommendations and discard disposable nebulizers appropriately .
2 . 6 Calculation and Interpretation of Methacholine Challenge Test Results A positive methacholine challenge test is a ≥ 20 % reduction in the FEV1 ( after Provocholine oral inhalation ) compared with the mean post - diluent FEV1 .
Calculate and record post - diluent FEV1 value before the methacholine challenge test is started .
Express airway hyperreactivity as the provocative Provocholine concentration ( mg / mL ) providing a fall in FEV1 of ≥ 20 % ( PC20 ) when the methacholine challenge test is dosed using either the 5 - breath dosimeter method or the 2 - minute tidal breathing method , or as the provocative Provocholine dose ( mcg ) providing a fall in FEV1 of ≥ 20 % ( PD20 ) when using the 2 - minute tidal breathing method .
Calculation of PC20 Calculate PC20 using one of the following methods .
Determine the percent decrease in FEV1 using the mean post - diluent FEV1 and the lowest FEV1 post - dose , as shown below : % fall in FEV1 = mean post - diluent FEV1 - lowest FEV1 post - Provocholine x 100 mean post - diluent FEV1 Method # 1 Plot the percent decrease in FEV1 against the increasing methacholine concentration using a log scale and obtain the PC20 by linear interpolation between the last two points , as shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Method # 2 Alternatively , calculate the PC20 as follows : PC20 = antilog [ log C1 + ( log C2 - log C1 ) ( 20 - R1 ) ] ( R2 - R1 ) Where : • C1 = second last methacholine concentration ( < 20 % FEV1 decrease ) • C2 = last methacholine concentration ( ≥ 20 % FEV1 decrease ) • R1 = % fall FEV1 after C1 • R2 = % fall FEV1 after C2 Calculation of PD20 ( 2 - minute tidal breathing method only ) Calculate the PD20 as follows : PD20 = antilog [ log D1 + ( log D2 - log D1 ) ( 20 - R1 ) ] ( R2 - R1 ) Where : • D1 = second last Provocholine dose ( < 20 % FEV1 decrease ) • D2 = last Provocholine dose ( ≥ 20 % FEV1 decrease ) • R1 = % FEV1 decrease after D1 • R2 = % FEV1 decrease after D2 When using the English Wright nebulizer , refer to Table 2 for D1 and D2 .
Interpretation of Results A negative ( normal ) methacholine challenge result is defined as FEV1 reduction of < 20 % after all the doses ( doubling or quadrupling dose increments ) in Table 1 ( for 5 - breath dosimeter method ) or Table 2 ( for the 2 - minute tidal breathing method ) have been administered .
If asthma drugs are discontinued prior to the methacholine challenge test , consider the possibility of rebound airway hyperreactivity in the interpretation of the test results .
The methacholine challenge test may occasionally be falsely positive after an influenza infection or upper respiratory infection , immunizations , in very young or very old patients , in patients with chronic lung disease ( e . g . , cystic fibrosis , sarcoidosis , tuberculosis , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ) , in patients with allergic rhinitis without asthma symptoms , in smokers , or in patients after exposure to air pollutants .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • For inhalation solution : 100 mg of white to off - white crystalline powder in amber glass vials ( powder is reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration ) • Inhalation solution : o base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride / 3 mL ) o 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( 0 . 1875 mg / 3 mL ) o 0 . 25 mg / mL ( 0 . 75 mg / 3 mL ) o 1 mg / mL ( 3 mg / 3 mL ) o 4 mg / mL ( 12 mg / 3 mL ) o 16 mg / mL ( 48 mg / 3 mL ) • For inhalation solution : 100 mg methacholine chloride powder in amber glass vials ( 3 ) • Inhalation solution : base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) , 0 . 0625 mg / mL , 0 . 25 mg / mL , 1 mg / mL , 4 mg / mL , and 16 mg / mL , each containing 3 mL of the concentrations of methacholine chloride per vial in a kit ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Provocholine is contraindicated in the following : • Hypersensitivity to methacholine or other parasympathomimetic agents .
Reactions have included rash , itching / swelling ( especially of the face / tongue / throat ) , severe dizziness , trouble breathing .
• Baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted ( adults or pediatric patients ) or < 1 . 5 L ( adults ) • Known hypersensitivity to methacholine chloride or other parasympathomimetic agents ( 4 ) • Baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted ( adults or children ) or < 1 . 5 L ( adults ) ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Healthcare provider and any other personnel involved in the administration of the methacholine challenge test should take precautions to minimize inhalation of Provocholine powder and nebulized aerosol ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Severe Bronchoconstriction Severe bronchoconstriction can result from Provocholine administration ( including the lowest dose ) .
The use of Provocholine is contraindicated in pediatric and adult patients with baseline FEV1 < 60 % predicted or adults with FEV1 < 1 . 5 L . Emergency equipment and medication should be immediately available to treat acute respiratory distress .
Because of the potential for severe bronchoconstriction , the use of Provocholine in patients with clinically apparent asthma or wheezing is not recommended .
If severe bronchoconstriction occurs , reverse immediately by the administration of a rapid - acting inhaled β - agonist .
If baseline spirometry is not performed or is measured inaccurately , the initial FEV1 may be underestimated .
In this situation , decreases in FEV1 may not be detected after escalating Provocholine doses , which may result in administration of unnecessary higher doses and an increase in the risk for excessive bronchoconstriction .
5 . 2 Risks to Healthcare Providers Administering Provocholine The supplied Provocholine powder or the Provocholine nebulized aerosol may cause bronchoconstriction in healthcare providers administering Provocholine in a methacholine challenge test .
Healthcare providers and any other personnel involved in the administration of Provocholine should take the following precautionary steps : • Do not inhale the supplied Provocholine powder • Do not handle the Provocholine powder if you have asthma or hay fever .
• Apply a low resistance filter to expiratory ports of dosing apparatus , as necessary , to prevent Provocholine release in the room air 5 . 3 Coexisting Diseases and Conditions Provocholine is not recommended for patients with uncontrolled hypertension , aortic aneurysm , or history of myocardial infarction or stroke diseases .
Patients with epilepsy , vagotonia , peptic ulcer disease , thyroid disease , urinary tract obstruction or other condition that could be adversely affected by a cholinergic agent should undergo methacholine challenge only if the healthcare practitioner considers the benefit to the individual outweighs the potential risks .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Provocholine were identified in clinical studies or post marketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Bronchospasm ( includes symptoms such as chest tightness , cough or wheezing ) .
Adverse reactions less commonly associated with Provocholine include headache , throat irritation , light - headedness and itching .
Adverse reactions associated with Provocholine include headache , throat irritation , light - headedness and itching ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Methapharm at 1 - 866 - 701 - 4636 or call FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or visit www . fda . gov / medwatch 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Beta - Adrenergic Blockers The use of beta - adrenergic blockers may impair reversal of Provocholine - caused bronchoconstriction .
Beta - Agonists , Anticholinergics , and Theophylline Beta - agonists , anticholinergics , and theophylline inhibit the response of airways to Provocholine ; therefore , hold these drugs before Provocholine use for the following duration : • Short - acting β - agonists ( e . g . , albuterol ) : 6 hours • Long - acting β - agonists ( e . g . , salmeterol ) : 36 hours • Short - acting anti - cholinergics ( e . g . , ipratropium ) : 12 hours • Long - acting anti - cholinergics ( e . g . , tiotropium ) : ≥ 168 hours • Oral theophylline : 12 - 48 hours Oral or Inhaled Corticosteroids , and Inhaled Cromoglycate Regular use of oral or inhaled corticosteroids and inhaled cromoglycate may acutely decrease bronchial responsiveness to Provocholine .
However , these drugs may be continued with Provocholine use .
• Beta - Adrenergic Blockers : May impair reversal of Provocholine - caused bronchoconstriction ( 7 ) • Beta - Agonists , Anticholinergics , and Theophylline : Inhibit response to Provocholine ; therefore , hold these drugs prior to Provocholine use ( 7 ) • Oral or Inhaled Corticosteroids , and Inhaled Cromyoglycate : May decrease response to Provocholine ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Provocholine is not recommended ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data from published literature on Provocholine use in pregnant women are insufficient to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies evaluating effects of methacholine chloride on embryofetal development have not been conducted .
Diagnosis of bronchial airway hyperreactivity with bronchoprovocation challenge is not recommended for pregnant women because of the potential for hypoxia in the fetus .
If bronchial airway hyperreactivity is suspected , consider trial of empiric treatment .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the United States general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of methacholine chloride in human milk , the effect on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Provocholine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Provocholine or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Provocholine is used in a methacholine challenge test for the diagnosis of bronchial airway hyperreactivity in pediatric patients 5 years of age and older who do not have clinically apparent asthma .
The safety and effectiveness of Provocholine have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 5 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The diagnosis of bronchial airway hyperreactivity is largely performed in pediatric and younger adult patients .
Clinical studies of Provocholine did not include patients 65 years of age or older .
11 DESCRIPTION Methacholine chloride , the active ingredient of Provocholine , is a parasympathomimetic ( cholinergic ) bronchoconstrictor agent .
Provocholine ( methacholine chloride ) powder for solution is administered by oral inhalation .
Chemically , methacholine chloride ( the active ingredient ) is 1 - propanaminium , 2 - ( acetyloxy ) - N , N , N , - trimethyl - , chloride .
It is a white to practically white deliquescent compound , soluble in water , alcohol and chloroform and insoluble in ether .
Aqueous solutions are neutral to litmus .
Methacholine chloride has an empirical formula of C8H18ClNO2 , a molecular weight of 195 . 69 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Provocholine Powder for Solution : Each vial of Provocholine contains 100 mg of methacholine chloride powder .
Provocholine Solution for Inhalation Kit ( Sterile ) : Each kit is packaged in a carton with six plastic vials with twist - off cap each containing 3 mL of the following concentrations of methacholine chloride solution .
Each solution also contains : Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , Sodium Chloride , glacial acetic acid as pH adjuster .
a ) base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) b ) 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( 0 . 1875 mg / 3 mL ) c ) 0 . 25 mg / mL ( 0 . 75 mg / 3 mL ) d ) 1 mg / mL ( 3 mg / 3 mL ) e ) 4 mg / mL ( 12 mg / 3 mL ) f ) 16 mg / mL ( 48 mg / 3 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methacholine chloride is a cholinergic agonist .
Bronchial smooth muscle contains significant parasympathetic ( cholinergic ) innervation .
Methacholine chloride agonizes the muscarinic receptors which eventually induce bronchoconstriction .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics After oral inhalation of Provocholine , patients with asthma are more sensitive to Provocholine - induced bronchoconstriction than are healthy subjects .
This difference in response is the pharmacological basis for Provocholine in the methacholine challenge test .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics There are no metabolic and pharmacokinetic data available on methacholine chloride .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There have been no studies with methacholine chloride that would permit an evaluation of its carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or of its effect on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied • Provocholine ( methacholine chloride ) Powder for Inhalation Solution : in amber glass vials that contain 100 mg of methacholine chloride powder , white to off - white in color .
Cartons have 6 vials ( NDC 64281 - 100 - 06 ) .
• Provocholine ( methacholine chloride ) Inhalation Solution Kit ( Sterile ) : Each kit ( NDC : 64281 - 110 - 05 ) contains six ( 6 ) plastic vials with twist - off cap each containing 3 mL of different concentrations of methacholine chloride as shown below .
Cartons have six ( 6 ) kits ( NDC 64281 - 110 - 06 ) .
a ) base solution ( contains no methacholine chloride ) ( NDC : 64281 - 111 - 00 ) b ) 0 . 0625 mg / mL ( 0 . 1875 mg / 3 mL ) ( NDC : 64281 - 112 - 00 ) c ) 0 . 25 mg / mL ( 0 . 75 mg / 3 mL ) ( NDC : 64281 - 113 - 00 ) d ) 1 mg / mL ( 3 mg / 3 mL ) ( NDC : 64281 - 114 - 00 ) e ) 4 mg / mL ( 12 mg / 3 mL ) ( NDC : 64281 - 115 - 00 ) f ) 16 mg / mL ( 48 mg / 3 mL ) ( NDC : 64281 - 116 - 00 ) Storage and Handling • Powder for inhalation solution : Store the supplied powder at 59 oF to 86 oF ( 15 oC to 30 oC ) .
Refrigerate the reconstituted and diluted solutions at 36 oF to 46 oF ( 2 oC to 8 oC ) for up to 2 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Provocholine inhalation solution kit : Store between 59 oF to 86 oF ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Use immediately upon opening the vial .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Risk of Severe Bronchoconstriction Inform the patient or caregiver that severe bronchoconstriction can result from Provocholine administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Cough , Chest Tightness , or Shortness of Breath Inform the patient or caregiver that Provocholine may produce mild cough , chest tightness or shortness of breath .
Provocholine ® powder for solution Manufactured by : Pancap Pharma Inc . 50 Valleywood Drive , Unit 6 , Markham , Ontario Canada L3R 6E9 Provocholine ® Inhalation Solution Kit Manufactured by : Nephron Pharmaceuticals Corporation 4500 12 th Street Extension , West Columbia , South Carolina USA 29172 Manufactured for : Methapharm , Inc . 11772 West Sample Road , Suite 101 Coral Springs , FL , USA 33065 For more information visit www . provocholine . com , email sales @ methapharm . com or call 1 - 833 - 887 - 7686 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ® Provocholine is a registered trademark of Methapharm Inc .
Revision : May 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
