Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate USP 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • for effective relief of itching , scaling , cracking , burning and discomfort that can accompany these conditions .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on children less than 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • condition persists • there is no improvement of athlete ' s foot or ringworm within 4 weeks or jock itch within 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • For athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • For athlete ' s foot and ringworm : use daily for 4 weeks .
• For jock itch : use daily for 2 weeks • not effective on the scalp or nails Inactive ingredients Cetostearyl alcohol , Cetomacrogol 1000 , Paraffin wax , Micro crystalline wax , Light liquid paraffin , Polyethylene Glycol , Chlorocresol and purified water Other information • Do not use if seal is damaged or is not visible .
• To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • store at temperature not exceeding 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
• see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 826 - ‬ 1306 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
CURES MOST ATHLETE ' S FOOT Relieves Itching and Burning Sensation Relieves from Cracking and scaling .
Grease less and non - staining Compared to the active ingredient in Micatin Distributed by .
Delsam Pharma Llc Bronx , Newyork , 10467 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
