Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octisalate 2 % , Octocrylene 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directons Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Dimethicone , Cetearryl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , phenoxyethanol , Alcohol denta . , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( fragrance ) , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorby glucoside , Sodium hyaluronate , Medicago sativa ( alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Simethicone , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Smooth deep lines and wrinkles and help delay new ones with this protecting and renewing daytime formula .
Created to answer your skin ' s needs now and help it have a more youthful - looking future .
It is the perfect partner to our Protect and Perfect Intense Serum , formulated to be used together to deliver even better results than the serum alone .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com For best results : After cleansing , simply smooth into your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
With our skin firming pro - retinol complex containing Lipopeptides and Alfalfa extract that works to help restore the skin ' s structure and maintain elasticity .
Jar Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 2 .
% , Octocrylene 4 % warning JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after applying your No7 serum .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
