Drug Facts Active ingredient Sulfur ( 10 % ) Purpose Acne treatment Uses • for the management or treatment of acne .
Clears up acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads , whiteheads and allows skin to heal .
• helps prevent the development of new acne pimples .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen after using this product • skin irritation may occur such as redness , burning , itching and peeling • do not use on broken skin Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions USE ONE TO THREE TIMES DAILY • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times a day .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to daily .
Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated above .
Inactive Ingredients Cetearyl Alcohol , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexyl Cocoate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Jojoba ( Simmondsia Chinensis ) Seed Oil , Olive ( Olea Europaea ) Fruit Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , PPG - 3 Benzyl Ether Myristate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Water ( Aqua ) Other information • store below 25 ° C Questions ?
+ 1 - 917 - 676 - 2003 Available during working hours : ( 9 am - 5 pm ) Monday to Friday Manufactured by : ACTIV OZONE ( Pty ) Ltd . 77 , 10 th Road , Kew , Johannesburg , South Africa , 2090 .
Tel : + 27 - 11 - 887 - 1752 .
www . activo2 . com Made in South Africa Distributed / Imported / Marketed by : Miller Methods Imports 3921 Alton Road , Miami Beach FL , 33140 You may report serious side effects to the above address INSPIRED BY NATURE PERFECTED BY SCIENCE ADVANCED SCIENTIFIC FORMULATION Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
