The need for wellness does n't stop when you ' re on the go .
Keep this convenient collection of three of our favourit roll - ons close at hand , wherever your journey takes you .
Keep on rolling .
Kit Contains 3 Saje Favorites : FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub peppermint halo COOLING & SOOTHING OIL BLEND FOR THE HEAD gutzy SOOTHING BELLY MASSAGE BLEND IMPORTANT : FOR EACH PRODUCT , READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION ON OUTER AND INNER BOX FLAP BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS PACKAGE FOR FULL INFORMATION .
DO NOT USE IF SECURITY SEAL AROUND BOTTLES IS BROKEN OR MISSING LIFT HERE TO CONTINUE TO READ IMPORTANT PRODUCT INFORMATION ON ALL OIL BLENDS Distributed by : SAJE NATURAL WELLNESS | 500 - 88 E . Pender St . Vancouver , BC Canada , V6A 3X3 | saje . com | 1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 | Made by our friends in Canada We support recycling .
Please recycle where possible GET READY FOR WELLNESS SKU 22250301 FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 7 % Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Uses Temporarily calms cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants .
Relieves the impulse to cough to help you rest .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not that by mouth or place in nostrils .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure Ask doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • See important warnings under ' When using this product ' • Adults and children 12 years or older : • rub on throat and chest in a thick layer • cover with warm cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other information Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Inactive ingredients Cinnamon oil , eucalyptus oil , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , pelargonium graveolens oil , peppermint oil , pine needle oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Apply to the following areas , as directed : A - Throat B - Chest SOOTHING OIL BLENDS PEPPERMINT HALO cooling & soothing oil blend for the head Apply to the following areas : A - Along hairline B - Neck C - Shoulders Directions for use : Apply as desired to entire hairline , creating a halo effect .
Apply to neck and shoulders for extra cooling and relaxation .
Avoid eyes and mucous membranes .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : Mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , and vetiveria zizanoides root oil .
Warnings : • Keep out of reach of children .
• For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
• If skin sensitization occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding , with high / low blood pressure , or if epileptic .
• If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
GUTZY soothing belly massage blend Apply to the following areas : A - Stomach Directions for use : Treat your tummy to an aromatic massage with soothing and comforting peppermint , fennel , chamomile , and black pepper .
apply directly onto stomach , as desired , and massage in gently .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil , foeniculum vulgare ( fennel ) oil , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , anthemis nobilis flower oil , piper nigrum ( pepper ) seed oil , and commiphora myrrha oil .
Warnings : • Keep out of reach of children .
• For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
• Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding or if epileptic .
• If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
Saje is commited to providing 100 % natural products containing pure essentail oils and ingredients derived from mineral and botanical sources .
Saje products are not tested on animals and do not contain any artificial or synthetic chemicals , presevatives , fragrances or colors .
Saje ® Natural Wellness ROLLING FARMACY oil blend convenience kit 1 ANTITUSSIVE ( COUGH SUPPRESSANT ) OIL BLEND RUB 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL 2 OIL BLENDS X 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL EA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
