Take this convenient pouch with you everywhere you go to combat everyday challenges and enhance your day .
Kit Contains 5 Saje Favorites : PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub peppermint halo COOLING & SOOTHING OIL BLEND FOR THE HEAD gutzy SOOTHING BELLY MASSAGE BLEND stress release SOOTHING OIL BLEND IMPORTANT : FOR EACH PRODUCT , READ ALL PRODUCT INFORMATION ON OUTER AND INNER BOX FLAP BEFORE USING .
KEEP THIS PACKAGE FOR FULL INFORMATION .
DO NOT USE IF SECURITY SEAL AROUND BOTTLES IS BROKEN OR MISSING LIFT HERE TO CONTINUE TO READ IMPORTANT PRODUCT INFORMATION ON ALL OIL BLENDS Distributed by : SAJE NATURAL WELLNESS | 22 East 5 th Ave Vancouver , BC Canada , V5T 1G8 | saje . com | 1 - 877 - 275 - 7253 | Made by our friends in Canada We support recycling .
Please recycle where possible SKU 22282401 PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 1 . 98 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • if epileptic • with high blood pressure When using this product , • avoid contact with the eyes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right awa y . Directions • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Not recommended for children under 12 years of age Inactive ingredients Anthemis nobilis flower oil , eucalyptus oil , lavender oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , origanum majorana leaf oil , peppermint oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
PAIN RELEASE topical analgesic oil blend Apply to muscles & joints experiencing minor aches & pains , as directed : A - Shoulders B - Neck C - Back ( upper / middle / lower ) D - Elbows E - Hands F - Soles of Feet G - Hips H - Thighs I - Knees J - Calves FORTIFY antitussive ( cough suppressant ) oil blend rub Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 7 % Purpose Antitussive ( Cough Suppressant ) Uses Temporarily calms cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold or inhaled irritants .
Relieves the impulse to cough to help you rest .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not that by mouth or place in nostrils .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • if epileptic • with high blood pressure Ask doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) .
When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • See important warnings under ' When using this product ' • Adults and children 12 years or older : • rub on throat and chest in a thick layer • cover with warm cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor .
Other information Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
Inactive ingredients Cinnamon oil , eucalyptus oil , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , pelargonium graveolens oil , peppermint oil , pine needle oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , and vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil .
Apply to the following areas , as directed : A - Throat B - Chest PEPPERMINT HALO cooling & soothing oil blend for the head Apply to the following areas : A - Along hairline B - Neck C - Shoulders Directions for use : Apply as desired to entire hairline , creating a halo effect .
Apply to neck and shoulders for extra cooling and relaxation .
Avoid eyes and mucous membranes .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : Mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , melaleuca leucadendron cajaput oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , and vetiveria zizanoides root oil .
Warnings : • Keep out of reach of children .
• For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
• If skin sensitization occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding , with high / low blood pressure , or if epileptic .
• If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
GUTZY soothing belly massage blend Apply to the following areas : A - Stomach Directions for use : Treat your tummy to an aromatic massage with soothing and comforting peppermint , fennel , chamomile , and black pepper .
apply directly onto stomach , as desired , and massage in gently .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil , foeniculum vulgare ( fennel ) oil , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , anthemis nobilis flower oil , piper nigrum ( pepper ) seed oil , and commiphora myrrha oil .
Warnings : • Keep out of reach of children .
• For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
• Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding or if epileptic .
• If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
STRESS RELEASE soothing oil blend Apply to the following areas : A - Forehead B - Neck C - Shoulders Directions for use : To support a sense of balance & calm the spirit , apply to forehead , neck & shoulders .
put several drops on a tissue & inhale deeply or insert into pillowcase before bed .
Add 10 - 25 drops to a bowl of steaming water ; Inhale deeply for 5 - 10 minutes .
Add 7 - 12 drops to a full bath & swish to disperse well .
For prolonged use , consult a doctor .
Ingredients : Vitis vinifera ( grape ) seed oil , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , citrus aurantium dulcis ( orange ) peel oil , anthemis nobilis flower oil , vetiveria zizanoides root oil , pelargonium graveolens oil , salvia sclarea ( clary ) oil , myrtus communis oil .
Warnings : • Keep out of reach of children .
• For external use only .
if swallowed , seek urgent care / call poison control .
• Avoid eyes & mucous membranes ; if contact occurs , rinse with vegetable oil .
• Do not use if pregnant / breastfeeding .
• If allergic reaction occurs , stop use & consult a doctor .
• Contains phototoxic orange essential oil ; do not sun tan / use tanning beds for 3 - 4 days after use .
Saje ® Natural Wellness POCKET FARMACY WALLET oil blend convenience kit 1 TOPICAL ANALGESIC OIL BLEND 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL 1 ANTITUSSIVE ( COUGH SUPPRESSANT ) OIL BLEND RUB 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL 3 OIL BLENDS X 0 . 34 FL . OZ .
| 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
