Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each drop ) Menthol 6 mg Purpose Cough suppressant / Oral anesthetic Uses temporarily relieves : • cough as may occur with a cold • cough associated with inhaled irritants • occasional minor irritation and sore throat Warnings Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
These symptoms may be serious .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • chronic cough that lasts such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough persists for more than 7 days , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• sore throat is severe , or irritation pain or redness lasts or worsens .
• sore mouth does not improve in 7 days .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • adults and children 5 years and older : dissolve drop slowly in the mouth .
May be repeated every two hours as needed or as directed by a doctor • children under 5 years : ask a doctor Other information • store in a cool , dry place • contains wheat Inactive ingredients beta carotene , citric acid , eucalyptus oil , glucose ( corn , wheat ) syrup , herbal extract ( elderflower , horehound , hyssop , lemon balm , linden flowers , mallow , peppermint , sage , thyme ) ; honey , lemon juice concentrate , natural flavor , natural lime flavor , sugar , water .
If your day ' s been marred by a cough or sore throat , we hope Trader Joe ' s Honey Lemon Cough Drops can provide a little bit of brightness .
They ' re made with menthol , which helps to naturally ease the discomfort that comes with coughs and sore throats .
And , with 4 % real acacia honey , they also happen to be tasty .
DIST .
& SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY : TRADER JOE ' S MONROVIA , CA 91016 PRODUCT OF GERMANY TRADER JOE ' S ® HONEY LEMON COUGH DROPS MENTHOL • COUGH SUPPRESSANT • ORAL ANESTHETIC COUGH RELIEF SOOTHES SORE THROATS 15 DROPS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
