Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide ( 2 . 5 % ) .
Purpose Acne Treatment .
Use • for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use • in or near eyes • on broken skin • on lips or large areas of the body • if you have very sensitive skin • if you are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • apply to affected areas only • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use sunscreen • This product may bleach hair or dyed fabrics .
• Using other topical acne products at the same time or immediately following the use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
Only one product should be used unless directed by a physican .
Stop use and ask a physician • if too much skin irritation or sensitivity develops or increases Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying .
• Cover the affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times a day .
• Because too much drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , and then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a physician .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside use a sunscreen .
Allow Daytime Treatment to dry then follow directions of the sunscreen labeling .
Inactive ingredients Water / Aqua / Eau , Niacinamide , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Fruit Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Boerhavia Diffusa Root Extract , Sodium Acrylates Copolymer , Lecithin , Galactoarabinan , Glyceryl Polyacrylate , Polyisobutene , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Butylene Glycol , Xanthan Gum , Polyacrylate - 13 , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Polysorbate 20 , Disodium EDTA , Citric Acid , Ethylhexylglycerin , Phenoxyethanol .
Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments Call toll free 1 - 800 - 831 - 5150 in the US PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Tube Carton dermalogica ® clear 2 . 5 % benzoyl peroxide Breakout Clearing Daytime Treatment 2 . 0 US Fl .
Oz .
/ 60 mL e [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
