Purpose Prevention of dental caries ( decay ) Indication Xyliflor Fluoride Dental Treatment Rinse is a specially formulated fluoride supplement that is administered by health professionals to aid in the prevention of dental caries ( decay ) in areas where the water supply contains 0 to 0 . 7 parts per million ( ppm ) fluoride ion .
Active Ingredient Each 10 ml of Xyliflor Fluoride Dental Treatment Rinse contains 0 . 02 % Sodium Fluoride ( 0 . 01 % Fluoride ion ) .
Inactive Ingredients Purified water , Xylitol , Glycerin , natural mint flavor , potassium sorbate , phosphoric acid , hydroxyethylcellulose , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium hydroxide Directions For individuals > 16 years of age , clean the teeth and rinse with 10 ml of Xyliflor 0 . 01 % fluoride ion rinse with 5 ml twice daily .
Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing .
For children age 3 to 6 years at high risk for tooth decay living in a non - fluoridated community ( tap water fluoride concentration < 3 parts per million ( ppm ) fluoride ion ) , clean the teeth and rinse with 5 mL of Xyliflor 0 . 01 % fluoride ion rinse once daily , then swallow or expectorate per patient preference .
If tap water is fluoridated to 0 . 3 - 0 . 7 ppm fluoride ion , then reduce dose to 2 . 5 mL daily .
If tap water has > 0 . 7 ppm fluoride ion , then no fluoride supplement is needed .
Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing .
For children age 6 to 16 years at high risk for tooth decay living in a non - fluoridated community ( tap water fluoride concentration < 3 parts per million ( ppm ) fluoride ion ) , clean the teeth and rinse with 10 mL of Xyliflor 0 . 01 % fluoride ion rinse once daily then swallow or expectorate per patient preference .
If tap water is fluoridated to 0 . 3 - 0 . 7 ppm fluoride ion , then reduce dose to 5 mL daily .
If tap water has > 0 . 7 ppm fluoride ion , then no fluoride supplement is needed .
Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing .
This product is specially formulated for populations at high risk for tooth decay including special needs and institutionalized populations and can be safely swallowed .
This product works best when used in conjunction with a toothbrush or dental swab .
Fluoride toothpaste is not recommended to be used in combination with this product in children .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Warning In case of overdose , get help or contact a Posion Control Center right away .
FOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE USE ONLY .
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT INTENDED FOR HOME OR UNSUPERVISED CONSUMER USE .
Other Store at room temperature .
( 20 - 25 ° C / 68 - 77 ° F ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
