Active ingredients Potassium nitrate 5 % Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Uses • • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• • pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
• • brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • children under 12 years : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , hydrated silica , glycerin , flavor ( contains aloe barbadensis extract and cocos nucifera ( coconut ) oil ) , sodium lauryl sulfate , xanthan gum , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 844 - 2797 Additional Information ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL SENSODYNE nourish WITH BIO - ACTIVE MINERALS Brush twice daily for a healthier smile : • • Strengthens & nourishes teeth • • Helps prevent cavities • • Protects from sensitivity * • • Freshens breath The Sensodyne Nourish range with bio - active minerals , strengthens and nourishes teeth while also protecting from sensitivity * .
Our toothpaste is designed to provide the everyday nourishment your teeth to help protect the health of your mouth .
Gently Soothing : With trusted sensitivity protection * , our formulation , blended with aloe vera extract and natural mint , is designed for a clean sensation .
* with twice daily brush Help us support the planet by recycling our packaging and being responsible with water usage .
CARTON RECYCLE TUBE RECYCLE LOT See end of carton Save Water Turn off tap whilst brushing Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2021 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 5026 - 01 NEW SENSODYNE nourish TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION NOURISH & STRENGTHEN TEETH FOR A HEALTHY MOUTH gently soothing aloe vera & natural mint WITH BIO - ACTIVE MINERALS NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) 62000000064835 Front Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
