DESCRIPTION Metvixia Cream is an oil in water emulsion .
Metvixia Cream contains methyl aminolevulinate hydrochloride equivalent to168 mg / g of methyl aminolevulinate .
Methyl aminolevulinate hydrochloride is a white to slightly yellow powder that is freely soluble in water and methanol , soluble in ethanol and practically insoluble in most organic solvents .
The chemical formula for methyl aminolevulinate HCl is C6H11NO3 · HCl ( MW = 181 . 62 ) and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metvixia Cream contains glyceryl monostearate , cetostearyl alcohol , polyoxyl stearate , cholesterol and oleyl alcohol as emulsifying agents .
It also contains glycerin , white petrolatum , isopropyl myristate , refined peanut oil , refined almond oil as emollients , edetate disodium as a chelating agent and methylparaben and propylparaben as preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Photosensitization following application of Metvixia Cream occurs through the metabolic conversion of methyl aminolevulinate ( prodrug ) to photoactive porphyrins ( PAP ) , which accumulates in the skin lesions to which Metvixia Cream has been applied .
When exposed to light of appropriate wavelength and energy , the accumulated photoactive porphyrins produce a photodynamic reaction , resulting in a cytotoxic process dependent upon the simultaneous presence of oxygen .
The absorption of light results in an excited state of porphyrin molecules , and subsequent spin transfer from photoactive porphyrins to molecular oxygen generates singlet oxygen , which can further react to form superoxide and hydroxyl radicals .
Photosensitization of actinic ( solar ) keratosis lesions using Metvixia Cream , plus illumination with a CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 ( a red light of 570 to 670 nm wavelength ) at 75 J / cm2 , is the basis for Metvixia photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) .
Pharmacokinetics The time - course of PAPs after application of Metvixia Cream has been monitored by means of fluorescence .
After application of Metvixia Cream to actinic keratosis lesions in 8 patients , fluorescence was measured at several time points over 28 hours .
Three hours after the application of Metvixia Cream the fluorescence in the treated lesions was significantly greater than that seen in both treated and untreated normal skin , and after application of vehicle cream ( not containing methyl aminolevulinate ) to normal skin .
After application of Metvixia Cream for 28 hours and subsequent illumination with red light of 570 to 670 nm wavelength at a total light dose of 75 J / cm2 , complete photobleaching ( photodegradation ) of Protoporphyrin IX occurred with levels of Protoporphyrin IX returning to pre - treatment values within 1 hour after illumination .
However , the fate of other photoactive porphyrins are unknown .
The clinical dose of methyl aminolevulinate cream and duration of application were derived from a study in which three different strengths of the cream ( 16 , 80 and 160 mg / g methyl aminolevulinate , as hydrochloride ) , each applied for 3 hours or 18 hours , were tested in 16 patients .
CLINICAL STUDIES Metvixia Cream plus illumination with the CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 ( a red light of 570 to 670 nm wavelength ) at 75 J / cm2 has been studied in 130 patients with non - hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses in two clinical trials .
These trials were not identical ; however , both were randomized , multicenter , and double - blinded with patients randomized to Metvixia - PDT and Vehicle - PDT study arms that required two treatment sessions ( 7 days apart ) .
One study was conducted in the U . S . and patients were randomized 1 : 1 Metvixia to Vehicle and one study was conducted in Australia with patients randomized 4 : 1 Metvixia to Vehicle .
In both studies treatment consisted of a multi - step process that was repeated after 7 days consisting of 1 ) Lesion preparation ( debridement with sharp curette ) to roughen the surface of the lesion .
2 ) Metvixia or Vehicle Cream application to lesions with occlusion with an adhesive , non - absorbent dressing , 3 ) Waiting at least 2 . 5 hours , but no more than 4 hours to allow for conversion of the methyl aminolevulinate , 4 ) Removal of cream with gauze and saline , 5 ) Red light Dosimetry and Illumination with the CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 ( a red light of 570 to 670 nm wavelength ) .
Study patients had previously untreated facial and scalp actinic keratoses ( AKs ) that were slightly palpable ( better felt than seen ) .
Hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses were excluded .
In the U . S . study 100 % of patients had 4 to 10 lesions at baseline .
However , in the Australian study , 63 % ( 70 / 111 ) of patients had less than 4 lesions at baseline , 31 % ( 34 / 111 ) of the enrolled patients had 4 to 10 lesions , and 6 % ( 7 / 111 ) had more than 10 lesions at baseline ( a maximum of 6 treatment fields were allowed in this study ) .
A “ Cleared ” AK lesion was defined as being not visible and not palpable as assessed 3 months after the second treatment session .
Patients with all treated lesions cleared at 3 months were defined as Complete Responders .
The percentage of patients in whom 75 % or more of the treated lesions were clear and the percent of patients in whom 100 % of the treated lesions were clear 3 months after the second Metvixia - PDT treatment session are shown in Table 1 for each of the two studies .
Table 1 .
Patient Responses at 3 - Month Post - Second Treatment Session Australian Study U . S . Study Patient Response Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Patients with at least 75 % of AK Lesions Cleared 76 / 88 ( 86 % ) 4 / 23 ( 17 % ) 35 / 42 ( 83 % ) 12 / 38 ( 32 % ) Complete Responders ( All Lesions clinically cleared at 3 months ) 71 / 88 ( 81 % ) 3 / 23 ( 13 % ) 33 / 42 ( 79 % ) 8 / 38 ( 21 % ) Patients with 4 or more lesions had lower success rates than those with less than 4 lesions when treated with PDT using Metvixia Cream ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Complete Responders at 3 - Month Post - Treatment for Different Baseline AK Lesion Counts Australian Study U . S . Study Baseline Lesion Count Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Below 4 49 / 55 ( 89 % ) 3 / 15 ( 20 % ) N / A N / A 4 – 10 18 / 27 ( 67 % ) 0 / 7 33 / 42 ( 79 % ) 8 / 38 ( 21 % ) More than 10 4 / 6 ( 67 % ) 0 / 1 N / A N / A Total 71 / 88 ( 81 % ) 3 / 23 ( 13 % ) 33 / 42 ( 79 % ) 8 / 38 ( 21 % ) Lesions that were slightly palpable ( Grade 1 ) had a better success rate than lesions that were visible and palpable ( Grade 2 ) – See Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Lesion Complete Response at 3 - Month Post - Treatment for Different Lesion Grades Australian Study U . S . Study Lesion Grade Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Lesion Grade 1 ( slightly palpable AK : better felt than seen ) 198 / 209 ( 95 % ) 12 / 35 ( 34 % ) 172 / 196 ( 88 % ) 72 / 162 ( 44 % ) Lesion Grade 2 ( visible and palpable AK : easily seen and felt ) 119 / 151 ( 79 % ) 9 / 39 ( 23 % ) 49 / 64 ( 77 % ) 20 / 80 ( 25 % ) Total 317 / 360 ( 88 % ) 21 / 74 ( 28 % ) 221 / 260 ( 85 % ) 92 / 242 ( 38 % ) Response rate by lesion location is presented in Table 4 .
Table 4 .
Lesion Complete Response at 3 - Month Post - Treatment for Different Lesion Locations Australian Study U . S . Study Lesion Location Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Metvixia - PDT Vehicle PDT Face 251 / 273 ( 92 % ) 15 / 62 ( 24 % ) 195 / 226 ( 86 % ) 73 / 204 ( 36 % ) Scalp 66 / 87 ( 76 % ) 6 / 12 ( 50 % ) 26 / 34 ( 76 % ) 19 / 38 ( 50 % ) Total 317 / 360 ( 88 % ) 21 / 74 ( 28 % ) 221 / 260 ( 85 % ) 92 / 242 ( 38 % ) The overall treatment effect as evidenced by the high vehicle response rate may include the contribution of lesion preparation , i . e . curettage .
Adequate lesion preparation is an important component for AK therapy with Metvixia Cream .
Information regarding further treatments for residual or new AK lesions performed after 3 months is not available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metvixia Cream in combination with 570 to 670 nm wavelength red light illumination using the CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 lamp is indicated for treatment of non - hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses of the face and scalp in immunocompetent patients when used in conjunction with lesion preparation ( debridement using a sharp dermal curette ) in the physician ’ s office when other therapies are unacceptable or considered medically less appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metvixia Cream is contraindicated in patients with cutaneous photosensitivity , or known allergies to porphyrins , and in patients with known sensitivities to any of the components of Metvixia Cream , which includes peanut and almond oil ( See WARNINGS regarding sensitivity to Metvixia Cream ) .
This product contains refined peanut oil ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Metvixia Cream is intended for topical use in the physician ’ s office by trained physicians only .
Do not apply to the eyes or to mucous membranes .
Metvixia Cream has demonstrated a high rate of contact sensitization ( allergenicity ) ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Care should be taken by the physician applying Metvixia Cream to avoid inadvertent skin contact .
Nitrile gloves should be worn when applying and removing the cream .
Vinyl and latex gloves do not provide adequate protection when using this product .
Metvixia Cream when used with CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 lamp must be used with appropriate protective sleeves obtained from the product manufacturer to decrease the risk of blood - borne transmitted diseases ( hepatitis , HIV , etc . ) .
Change the disposable covers for the device ( probe and horseshoe positioning device ) between patients .
Universal Precautions should be used with this treatment .
PRECAUTIONS The safety and efficacy have not been established for the treatment of cutaneous malignancies and for skin lesions other than non - hyperkeratotic face and scalp actinic keratoses using PDT with Metvixia Cream .
Thick ( hyperkeratotic ) actinic keratoses should not be treated with Metvixia Cream .
The safety and efficacy of Metvixia Cream has not been established in patients with immunosuppression , porphyria or pigmented actinic keratoses .
General Metvixia Cream Application During the time period between the application of Metvixia ( methyl aminolevulinate ) Cream and exposure to red light illumination , the treatment site will become photosensitive .
After Metvixia Cream application , patients should avoid exposure of the photosensitive treatment sites to sunlight or bright indoor light ( e . g . , examination lamps , operating room lamps , tanning beds , or lights at close proximity ) during the period prior to red light treatment .
Exposure to light may result in a stinging and / or burning sensation and may cause erythema and / or edema of the lesions .
Before exposure to sunlight , patients should , therefore , protect treated lesions from the sun by wearing a wide - brimmed hat or similar head covering of light - opaque material .
Sunscreens will not protect against photosensitivity reactions caused by visible light .
The treated site should be protected from extreme cold with adequate clothing or remaining indoors between application of Metvixia and PDT light treatment .
After illumination of Metvixia Cream , the area treated should be kept covered and away from light for at least 48 hours .
Because of the potential for skin to become photosensitized , the Metvixia Cream should be used by a trained physician to apply drug only to non - hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses and perilesional skin within 5 mm of the lesion .
Redness , swelling , burning , and stinging are expected as a result of therapy ; however , if these symptoms increase in severity and persist longer than 3 weeks , the patient should contact their doctor .
Metvixia Cream has not been studied for more than two treatment sessions .
Information regarding further treatments for residual or new AK lesions performed after 3 months is not available .
.
Photosensitivity and Device Precautions .
The patient , operator and other persons present should wear protective goggles that sufficiently screen out light with wavelengths from 570 to 670 nm during red light treatment .
If for any reason the patient cannot have the red light treatment after application of Metvixia Cream , the cream should be rinsed off , and the patient should protect the treated area from sunlight , prolonged or intense light for two days .
Prolonged exposure for greater than 4 hours to Metvixia Cream should be avoided .
Coagulation defects Metvixia Cream has not been tested on patients with inherited or acquired coagulation defects .
Hypersensitivity Metvixia Cream is formulated with refined peanut and almond oil .
Metvixia ( methyl aminolevulinate ) Cream has not been tested in patients who are allergic to peanuts .
Metvixia ( methyl aminolevulinate ) Cream has demonstrated a high rate of contact sensitization ( allergenicity ) .
Information for Patients The physician should provide and discuss the attached Patient Package Insert with each patient .
Drug Interactions There have been no studies of the interaction of Metvixia Cream with any other drugs , including local anesthetics .
It is possible that concomitant use of other known photosensitizing agents might increase the photosensitivity reaction of actinic keratoses treated with Metvixia Cream .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment to Fertility Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Metvixia Cream have not been performed .
Methyl aminolevulinate was negative for genetic toxicity in the Ames assay , and the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells , tested with and without metabolic activation and in the presence and absence of light .
Methyl aminolevulinate was also negative in the in vivo micronucleus assay in the rat .
In contrast , at least one report in the literature has noted genotoxic effects in cultured rat hepatocytes after aminolevulinate ( ALA ) exposure with PpIX formation .
Other studies have documented oxidative DNA damage in vivo and in vitro as a result of ALA exposure .
No animal fertility studies have been conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Metvixia Cream .
It is also not known whether Metvixia Cream can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Metvixia Cream should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers The amount of methyl aminolevulinate secreted into human breast milk following topical administration of Metvixia Cream is not known .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Metvixia Cream is administered to a nursing mother .
If Metvixia Cream is used in a nursing mother , a decision should be made whether or not to stop nursing .
Pediatric Use It is not recommended that Metvixia Cream be used in pediatric patients .
Actinic keratosis is rarely found in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Seventy percent ( 269 among 383 ) of the patients treated with Metvixia Cream in all clinical studies of actinic keratosis were 65 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety and efficacy were observed between patients aged 65 years and older and those who were younger .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Dermal Safety Studies Provocative studies to evaluate irritancy and sensitization have demonstrated that Metvixia Cream is an irritant and sensitizer .
A provocative cumulative irritancy and sensitization ( allergenicity ) study of Metvixia Cream with a cross - sensitization challenge with ALA was performed in 156 subjects .
Only 98 of the 156 subjects tested entered the challenge phase .
Fifty - two percent of the subjects ( 30 / 58 ) , who agreed to challenge with Metvixia Cream , were positive ( sensitized ) .
Forty subjects refused challenge with Metvixia Cream and 60 withdrew .
At least 58 of the 60 subjects who withdrew from the study discontinued due to irritation / sensitization .
Ninety - eight subjects agreed to challenge with ALA .
Two percent of the ALA challenged subjects ( 2 / 98 ) were scored as equivocal reactions and 2 % in the paraffin vehicle group were scored as positive .
Adverse Events In vehicle - controlled phase 3 studies of actinic keratosis , 88 % of patients treated with Metvixia Cream reported one or more adverse events .
Burning was the most frequent complaint , reported by 50 % of patients ( ranging from mild , to severe ) and 9 % of those patients reported severe burning sensation .
Pain in the skin was reported by 21 % of patients and 7 % had severe pain .
Local erythema lasting up to two weeks and edema up to one week after treatment were reported by 31 % and 6 % of patients .
Symptoms and signs of local phototoxicity were observed in 88 % of patients treated with Metvixia Cream in all clinical studies of Metvixia - PDT for actinic keratoses .
Percentage of patients with local adverse reactions based on occurrence per patient in vehicle controlled phase 3 studies . Events Metvixia - PDT ( n = 130 ) Vehicle PDT * ( n = 61 ) n ( % ) of patients with AEs n ( % ) of patients with AEs Burning sensation skin 65 ( 50 . 0 % ) 9 ( 14 . 8 % ) Erythema 60 ( 46 . 2 % ) 12 ( 19 . 7 % ) Skin pain 27 ( 20 . 8 % ) 6 ( 9 . 8 % ) Stinging skin 25 ( 19 . 2 % ) 2 ( 3 . 3 % ) Crusting 20 ( 15 . 4 % ) 6 ( 9 . 8 % ) Edema skin 20 ( 15 . 4 % ) 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) Skin peeling 14 ( 10 . 8 % ) 2 ( 3 . 3 % ) Blisters 14 ( 10 . 8 % ) 2 ( 3 . 3 % ) Bleeding skin 11 ( 8 . 5 % ) 2 ( 3 . 3 % ) Pruritus / Itching 17 ( 13 . 1 % ) 2 ( 3 . 3 % ) Skin ulceration 7 ( 5 . 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Skin infection 3 ( 2 . 3 % ) 1 ( 1 . 6 % ) Skin hyper - pigmentation 1 ( 0 . 8 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) The majority of patients in all the clinical trials had local pain or discomfort upon illumination .
There were 4 ( 1 . 0 % ) withdrawals / discontinuations among 383 patients treated with Metvixia Cream in all the clinical trials of actinic keratosis , all of which were due to the adverse event of local pain on illumination .
There have been reported instances of patients treated with Metvixia Cream ( 2 out of 130 ) who have developed squamous cell and basal cell carcinoma at the site of treatment .
The relationship to treatment with Metvixia Cream is unknown .
Serious erythema and facial edema have been described in European post - marketing reports .
OVERDOSAGE Metvixia Cream Overdose Metvixia Cream overdose has not been reported .
If the patient for any reason cannot have the red light treatment during the prescribed period after application ( the 3 hour timespan ) , the cream should be rinsed off , and the patient should protect the exposed area from sunlight , prolonged or intense light for two days .
Red Light Overdose There is no information on overdose of red light following Metvixia Cream application .
In case of red light overexposure and skin burn occurs , the patient should be treated according to standard of practice guidelines for treatment of cutaneous burns .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Photodynamic therapy for non - hyperkeratotic actinic keratoses with Metvixia Cream is a multi - stage process as described below : Two treatment sessions 7 days apart should be conducted .
Not more than one gram ( half a tube ) of Metvixia Cream should be applied per treatment session .
One Metvixia - PDT session consists of : 1 ) Lesion debriding – Before applying Metvixia Cream , the surface of the lesions should be prepared with a small dermal curette to remove scales and crusts and roughen the surface of the lesion .
This is to facilitate access of the cream and light to all parts of the lesion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 A Lesion debriding Only nitrile gloves should be worn during this and subsequent steps and Universal Precautions should be taken .
Vinyl and latex gloves do not provide adequate protection when using this product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 B Lesion debriding 2 ) Application of Metvixia Cream – Using a spatula , apply a layer of Metvixia Cream about 1 mm thick to the lesion and the surrounding 5 mm of normal skin .
Do not apply more than one gram of Metvixia Cream for each patient per treatment session .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Cream application The area to which the cream has been applied should then be covered with an occlusive , non - absorbent dressing for 3 hours .
Multiple lesions may be treated during the same treatment session .
Each treatment field is limited to a diameter of 55 mm .
Only nitrile gloves should be worn by the qualified healthcare provider in order to avoid skin contact with the cream .
This product is not intended for application by patients or unqualified medical personnel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Occlusive dressing application 3 ) Wait for 3 hours - ( at least 2 . 5 hours , but no more than 4 hours ) .
After Cream application , patients should avoid exposure of the photosensitive treatment sites to sunlight or bright indoor light ( e . g . , examination lamps , operating room lamps , tanning beds , or lights at close proximity ) during the period prior to red light treatment .
Exposure to light may result in a stinging and / or burning sensation and may cause erythema and / or edema of the lesions .
Patients should protect treated areas from the sun by wearing a wide - brimmed hat or similar head covering of light - opaque material .
Sunscreens will not protect against photosensitivity reactions caused by visible light .
It has not been determined if perspiration can spread the Metvixia Cream outside the treatment site to the eyes or surrounding skin .
The treated site should be protected from extreme cold with adequate clothing or remaining indoors between application of Metvixia Cream and PDT light treatment .
4 ) Removal of Dressing and Rinse Off Excess Cream - Following removal of the occlusive dressing , clean the area with saline and gauze .
Nitrile gloves should be worn at this step by the trained physician .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Cream removal 5 ) Illumination of Metvixia Treated Lesion - It is important to ensure that the correct light dose is administered .
The light intensity at the lesion surface should not be higher than 200 mW / cm2 .
Patient and operator should adhere to safety instructions and Universal Precautions provided with the lamp .
The patient and operator should wear protective goggles during illumination .
Patients should be advised that transient stinging and / or burning at the target lesion sites may occur during the period of light exposure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Illumination The CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 lamp is approved for the use in Metvixia - PDT .
The lamp should be carefully calibrated so that dosing is accurate and immediately thereafter the lesion should be exposed to red light with a continuous spectrum of 570 to 670 nm and a total light dose of 75 J / cm2 .
To avoid direct contact between lamp parts and patient skin , always use disposable protective plastic sleeves on the positioning device and on the light measuring probe .
Following each patient treatment , the disposable protective plastic sleeves should be removed from the positioning device and from the light measuring probe and discarded .
If red light treatment is interrupted or stopped for any reason , it may be restarted .
If the patient for any reason cannot have the red light treatment during the prescribed period after application ( the 3 hour timespan ) , the cream should be rinsed off and the patient should protect the exposed area from sunlight , prolonged or intense light for two days .
Metvixia Cream is not intended for use with any device other than the approved lamp : CureLight BroadBand Model CureLight 01 .
Use of Metvixia Cream without subsequent red light illumination is not recommended .
No more than 1 gram ( half a tube ) of product should be used for each of the two weekly treatment sessions .
Multiple lesions may be treated during the same treatment session using a total of 1 gram of Metvixia Cream .
Lesion response should be assessed 3 months after the last treatment session .
This product is not intended for application by patients or unqualified medical personnel , therefore , this product is only dispensed to physicians .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Metvixia Cream , 16 . 8 % , is available as the following : NDC 63069 - 401 - 01 , 2 gram aluminum tube , box of 1 Product Package Keep out of reach of children For topical use only by physicians in the physician ’ s office .
Rx Only Storage Conditions Store refrigerated , 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Use contents within one week after opening .
Should not be used after 24 hours out of refrigerator .
Metvixia Cream is a registered trade name of PhotoCure ASA .
PhotoCure ASA , Hoffsveien 48 , N - 0377 Oslo , Norway USA Contact : Cato Research , Westpark Corporate Center , 4364 South Alston Avenue , Durham NC 27713 Revision : September 5 , 2007 PATIENT INFORMATION Metvixia ™ Cream 16 . 8 % ( phonetic ) Generic name : methyl aminolevulinate hydrochloride Read this Patient Information before you get treated with Metvixia Cream and each time you get a treatment .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or treatment .
Ask your healthcare provider about anything you do not understand about Metvixia Cream .
What is the most important thing I need to know about Metvixia Cream ?
• Metvixia Cream with light treatment ( Photodynamic therapy or PDT ) is only done in medical offices by trained doctors .
• Metvixia Cream is not applied by patients .
Metvixia Cream should not be applied by doctors who have not been trained in its use .
What is Metvixia Cream ?
Metvixia Cream is a prescription cream used with PDT ( light treatment ) to treat skin growths on the face and scalp called actinic keratosis ( AK ) .
Metvixia Cream is only used for AK skin growths that are thin and not dark colored .
AK skin growths are not cancer .
AK skin growths are caused partly by too much sun exposure .
Metvixia Cream and PDT work together to treat AK skin growths .
Metvixia Cream has not been studied in children for any condition and should not be used in children .
Who should not use Metvixia Cream ?
Do not use Metvixia Cream if : • - your skin over reacts to sun or light ( photosensitivity ) • - you are allergic to porphyrins or to any of the ingredients in Metvixia Cream .
The active ingredient is methyl aminolevulinate hydrochloride .
Metvixia Cream also contains peanut and almond oil .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Metvixia Cream .
Before treatment with Metvixia Cream , tell your doctor : • about your medical conditions , including if you • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Metvixia Cream can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if Metvixia Cream passes into your milk and if it can harm your baby .
You should decide whether or not to stop breastfeeding while getting treatment with Metvixia Cream .
Talk to your doctor for help with this choice .
• are allergic to nuts or peanuts • have or had skin cancer or other skin growths on your body • have bleeding problems .
• about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
It is not known if Metvixia Cream and other medicines can affect each other .
How should I use Metvixia Cream ?
• Metvixia Cream and PDT treatment is only done by trained doctors .
• You will receive 2 treatments with Metvixia Cream and PDT 7 days ( 1 week ) apart .
Your doctor will check you three months after treatment to see if the treatment worked for you .
( See the end of this leaflet for the section “ Treatment with Metvixia Cream and PDT . ” )
• Metvixia Cream is for skin use only .
Do not get Metvixia Cream in your eyes , mouth , or nose .
Tell your doctor right away if this happens .
What should I avoid while using Metvixia Cream ?
During the 3 hours that Metvixia Cream is on your skin : • Avoid exposure to sunlight or bright indoor light during the 3 hours that Metvixia Cream is on your skin .
Wear a protective hat and clothing if you need to be outside in the sun .
• Avoid exposure to cold temperatures during the 3 hours that Metvixia Cream is on your skin .
Wear warm clothing and keep your treated skin site covered if you are in cold temperatures .
If for some unavoidable reason you are not treated with the lamp you should • Carefully rinse off the Cream .
• Avoid exposure to sunlight , prolonged or intense light for two days after treatment .
What are the possible side effects of Metvixia Cream with PDT treatment ?
Common side effects of Metvixia Cream with PDT treatment include the following skin reactions at the treated site : • burning feeling • redness • pain • stinging • swelling • crusting , peeling , blisters , bleeding , itching , ulcers • infection Tell your doctor if you get any of these side effects .
Your healthcare provider should be able to treat these reactions according to standard treatments for such skin reactions .
These reactions usually go away within 10 days of treatment .
Redness may last for up to 1 month .
If any of your skin reactions get worse and last longer than 3 weeks , call your doctor .
These are not all the side effects of Metvixia Cream with PDT .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
General information about Metvixia Cream Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Metvixia Cream .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor for information about Metvixia Cream that is written for health professionals .
Toll - free number and / or website will be provided when available for the US market .
What are the ingredients in Metvixia Cream ?
Active Ingredient : methyl aminolevulinate hydrochloride Other Ingredients : Glyceryl monostearate , cetostearyl alcohol , poloxyl stearate , cholesterol , oleyl alcohol glycerin , white petrolatum , isopropyl myristate , refined peanut oil , refined almond oil , edetate disodium , methylparaben and propylparaben .
The color of the product is cream to pale yellow .
Treatment with Metvixia Cream and PDT [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Lesion debriding Your doctor will prepare your skin by gently scraping ( debriding ) your skin growths before treating with Metvixia Cream and PDT .
A small skin scraper is used to remove scales and crusts and to roughen the surface of any skin growths .
This is to help Metvixia Cream and PDT to reach all parts of the skin growths .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Cream application Metvixia Cream is applied to the actinic keratosis skin growths and to a small area of the skin around the growths .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Clear bandage application The treated skin areas will be covered with a special clear bandage for about 3 hours .
During these 3 - hours you should avoid exposure of treated area to sunlight or bright indoor light .
Exposure to light may make your treated skin area sting or burn .
Your treated skin area may turn red or swell ( photosensitive reactions ) .
Wear a hat and protective clothes if you are exposed to sunlight during this time .
Sunscreens will not help protect your treated skin during this time .
In cold weather , your treated skin site should be protected from the cold with warm clothes or you should stay indoors for these 3 hours between the cream and light treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Cream removal The clear bandage will be removed and the area will be rinsed with a saline solution before the PDT ( light ) treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Illumination The skin growth will be treated with PDT .
PDT lasts about 10 minutes for each area treated with the lamp .
You will wear protective goggles to cover your eyes during this part of the treatment .
More than 1 skin growth may be treated at a time .
Your treated skin areas may burn , feel painful , sting , or tingle during light treatment .
These symptoms may last for a few hours after the treatment .
If you cannot have the light treatment 3 hours after Metvixia Cream is applied , rinse the cream off your skin and you must protect your skin from sunlight and bright indoor light for 2 days .
This product should only be stored in refrigerators in pharmacies and medical offices .
Rx only Metvixia Cream is a registered trade name of PhotoCure ASA .
Sponsor : PhotoCure ASA , Hoffsveien 48 , NO - 0377 Oslo , Norway U . S . Contact : Cato Research , Westpark Corporate Center , 4364 South Alston Avenue , Durham NC 27713 Manufacturer : Penn Pharmaceutical Services Ltd . , Tafarnaubach Industrial Estate , Tredegar , Gwent , NP22 3 AA , UK .
