Indications and Usage , 9 / 2006 First line acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) ( 1 . 1 ) Contraindications , 9 / 2006 History of serious thrombosis with prior L - asparaginase therapy ( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oncaspar ® is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for treatment of patients with : • First line acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( 1 . 1 ) • Acute lymphoblastic leukemia and hypersensitivity to asparaginase ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 First Line Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ( ALL ) Oncaspar ® is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the first line treatment of patients with ALL .
1 . 2 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and Hypersensitivity to Asparaginase Oncaspar ® is indicated as a component of a multi - agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of patients with ALL and hypersensitivity to native forms of L - asparaginase .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 2 , 500 IU / m2 intramuscularly ( IM ) or intravenously ( IV ) no more frequently than every 14 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • For IM administration , limit the volume at a single injection site to 2 mL ; if greater than 2 mL , use multiple injection sites .
( 2 . 2 ) • For IV administration , give over a period of 1 to 2 hours in 100 mL of sodium chloride or dextrose injection 5 % , through an infusion that is already running .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not administer Oncaspar ® if drug has been frozen , stored at room temperature for more than 48 hours , or shaken or vigorously agitated .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose of Oncaspar ® is 2 , 500 IU / m2 intramuscularly ( IM ) or intravenously ( IV ) .
Oncaspar ® should be administered no more frequently than every 14 days .
2 . 2 Instructions for Administration When Oncaspar ® is administered IM , the volume at a single injection site should be limited to 2 mL .
If the volume to be administered is greater than 2 mL , multiple injection sites should be used .
When administered IV , Oncaspar ® should be given over a period of 1 to 2 hours in 100 mL of sodium chloride or dextrose injection 5 % , through an infusion that is already running .
2 . 3 Preparation and Handling Precautions Do not administer Oncaspar ® if drug has been : • frozen • stored at room temperature ( + 15 ° C to + 25 ° C ; 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) for more than 48 hours • shaken or vigorously agitated [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter , cloudiness , or discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If any of these are present , discard the vial .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 3 , 750 IU / 5 mL single - use vial • 3 , 750 IU / 5 mL single - use vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of serious allergic reactions to Oncaspar ® • History of serious thrombosis with prior L - asparaginase therapy • History of pancreatitis with prior L ‑ asparaginase therapy • History of serious hemorrhagic events with prior L - asparaginase therapy • History of serious allergic reactions to Oncaspar ® ( 4 ) • History of serious thrombosis with prior L - asparaginase therapy ( 4 ) • History of pancreatitis with prior L ‑ asparaginase therapy ( 4 ) • History of serious hemorrhagic events with prior L - asparaginase therapy ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • If the following occur - discontinue Oncaspar ® : Anaphylaxis or serious allergic reactions ( 5 . 1 ) Thrombosis ( 5 . 2 ) Pancreatitis ( 5 . 3 ) • Glucose intolerance , in some cases irreversible , can occur ( 5 . 4 ) • Coagulopathy can occur .
Perform appropriate monitoring .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis and Serious Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions can occur in patients receiving Oncaspar ® .
The risk of serious allergic reactions is higher in patients with known hypersensitivity to other forms of L - asparaginase .
Observe patients for 1 hour after administration of Oncaspar ® in a setting with resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis ( for example , epinephrine , oxygen , intravenous steroids , antihistamines ) .
Discontinue Oncaspar ® in patients with serious allergic reactions .
5 . 2 Thrombosis Serious thrombotic events , including sagittal sinus thrombosis can occur in patients receiving Oncaspar ® .
Discontinue Oncaspar ® in patients with serious thrombotic events .
5 . 3 Pancreatitis Pancreatitis can occur in patients receiving Oncaspar ® .
Evaluate patients with abdominal pain for evidence of pancreatitis .
Discontinue Oncaspar ® in patients with pancreatitis .
5 . 4 Glucose Intolerance Glucose intolerance can occur in patients receiving Oncaspar ® .
In some cases , glucose intolerance is irreversible .
5 . 5 Coagulopathy Increased prothrombin time , increased partial thromboplastin time , and hypofibrinogenemia can occur in patients receiving Oncaspar ® .
Monitor coagulation parameters at baseline and periodically during and after treatment .
Initiate treatment with fresh - frozen plasma to replace coagulation factors in patients with severe or symptomatic coagulopathy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions occur with Oncaspar ® treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] : • Anaphylaxis and serious allergic reactions • Serious thrombosis • Pancreatitis • Glucose intolerance • Coagulopathy The most common adverse reactions with Oncaspar ® are allergic reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) , hyperglycemia , pancreatitis , central nervous system ( CNS ) thrombosis , coagulopathy , hyperbilirubinemia , and elevated transaminases .
Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) are allergic reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) , central nervous system ( CNS ) thrombosis , coagulopathy , elevated transaminases , hyperbilirubinemia , hyperglycemia , and pancreatitis .
( 6 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
First - Line ALL The data presented below are derived from 2 studies in patients with standard - risk ALL who received Oncaspar ® as a component of first - line multi - agent chemotherapy .
Study 1 was a randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , active - controlled study that enrolled 118 patients , with a median age of 4 . 7 years ( 1 . 1 - 9 . 9 years ) , of whom 54 % were males and 65 % White , 14 % Hispanic , 8 % Black , 8 % Asian , and 6 % other .
Of the 59 patients in Study 1 who were randomized to Oncaspar ® , 48 patients ( 81 % ) received all 3 planned doses of Oncaspar ® , 6 ( 10 % ) received 2 doses , 4 ( 7 % ) received 1 dose , and 1 patient ( 2 % ) did not receive the assigned treatment .
Study 2 is an ongoing , multi - factorial design study in which all patients received Oncaspar ® as a component of various multi - agent chemotherapy regimens ; interim safety data are available for 2 , 770 patients .
Study participants had a median age of 4 years ( 1 - 10 years ) , and were 55 % male , 68 % White , 18 % Hispanic , 4 % Black , 3 % Asian , and 7 % other .
Per protocol , the schedule of Oncaspar ® varied by treatment arm , with intermittent doses of Oncaspar ® for up to 10 months .
In Study 1 , detailed safety information was collected for pre - specified adverse reactions identified as asparaginase - induced adverse reactions and for grade 3 and 4 non - hematologic adverse reactions according to the Children ’ s Cancer Group ( CCG ) Toxicity and Complication Criteria .
The per - patient incidence , by treatment arm , for these selected adverse reactions occurring at a severity of grade 3 or 4 are presented in Table 1 below : TABLE 1 STUDY 1 : PER - PATIENT INCIDENCE OF SELECTED GRADE 3 AND 4 ADVERSE REACTIONS1Aspartate aminotransferase , alanine aminotransferase .
2 Prolonged prothrombin time or partial thromboplastin time ; or hypofibrinogenemia .
Oncaspar ® ( n = 58 ) Native E . coli L ‑ Asparaginase ( n = 59 ) Abnormal Liver Tests 3 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) Elevated Transaminases1 2 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 7 % ) Hyperbilirubinemia 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Hyperglycemia 3 ( 5 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Central Nervous System Thrombosis 2 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Coagulopathy2 1 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) Pancreatitis 1 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) Clinical Allergic Reactions to Asparaginase 1 ( 2 % ) 0 Safety data were collected in Study 2 only for National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria ( NCI CTC ) version 2 . 0 , grade 3 and 4 non - hematologic toxicities .
In this study , the per - patient incidence for the following adverse reactions occurring during treatment courses in which patients received Oncaspar ® were : elevated transaminases , 11 % ; coagulopathy , 7 % ; hyperglycemia , 5 % ; CNS thrombosis / hemorrhage , 2 % ; pancreatitis , 2 % ; clinical allergic reaction , 1 % ; and hyperbilirubinemia , 1 % .
There were 3 deaths due to pancreatitis .
Previously Treated ALL Adverse reaction information was obtained from 5 clinical trials that enrolled a total of 174 patients with relapsed ALL who received Oncaspar ® as a single agent or in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy .
The toxicity profile of Oncaspar ® in patients with previously treated relapsed ALL is similar to that reported above with the exception of clinical allergic reactions ( see Table 2 ) .
The most common adverse reactions of Oncaspar ® were clinical allergic reactions , elevated transaminases , hyperbilirubinemia , and coagulopathies .
The most common serious adverse events due to Oncaspar ® treatment were thrombosis ( 4 % ) , hyperglycemia requiring insulin therapy ( 3 % ) , and pancreatitis ( 1 % ) .
6 . 2 Clinical Allergic Reactions Clinical allergic reactions include the following : bronchospasm , hypotension , laryngeal edema , local erythema or swelling , systemic rash , and urticaria .
First - Line ALL Among 58 Oncaspar ® - treated patients enrolled in Study 1 , clinical allergic reactions were reported in 2 patients ( 3 % ) .
One patient experienced a grade 1 allergic reaction and the other grade 3 hives ; both occurred during the first delayed intensification phase of the study ( see Table 2 ) .
Previously Treated ALL Among 62 patients with relapsed ALL and prior hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase , 35 patients ( 56 % ) had a history of clinical allergic reactions to native Escherichia ( E . ) coli L - asparaginase , and 27 patients ( 44 % ) had history of clinical allergic reactions to both native E . coli and native Erwinia L ‑ asparaginase .
Twenty ( 32 % ) of these 62 patients experienced clinical allergic reactions to Oncaspar ® ( see Table 2 ) .
Among 112 patients with relapsed ALL with no prior hypersensitivity reactions to asparaginase , 11 patients ( 10 % ) experienced clinical allergic reactions to Oncaspar ® ( see Table 2 ) .
TABLE 2 INCIDENCE OF CLINICAL ALLERGIC REACTIONS , OVERALL AND BY SEVERITY GRADE Toxicity Grade , n ( % ) Patient Status 1 2 3 4 Total Previously Hypersensitive Patients ( n = 62 ) 7 ( 11 ) 8 ( 13 ) 4 ( 6 ) 1 ( 2 ) 20 ( 32 ) Non - Hypersensitive Patients ( n = 112 ) 5 ( 4 ) 4 ( 4 ) 1 ( 1 ) 1 ( 1 ) 11 ( 10 ) First Line ( n = 58 ) 1 ( 2 ) 0 1 ( 2 ) 0 2 ( 3 ) 6 . 3 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity , defined as development of binding and / or neutralizing antibodies to the product .
In Study 1 , Oncaspar ® - treated patients were assessed for evidence of binding antibodies using an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) method .
The incidence of protocol - specified “ high - titer ” antibody formation was 2 % in Induction ( n = 48 ) , 10 % in Delayed Intensification 1 ( n = 50 ) , and 11 % in Delayed Intensification 2 ( n = 44 ) .
There is insufficient information to determine whether the development of antibodies is associated with an increased risk of clinical allergic reactions , altered pharmacokinetics , or loss of anti ‑ leukemic efficacy .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay , and the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
Therefore , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to Oncaspar ® with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies , between Oncaspar ® and other drugs , have been performed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Oncaspar ® .
It is also not known whether Oncaspar ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Oncaspar ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Oncaspar ® is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Oncaspar ® , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Oncaspar ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE Three patients received 10 , 000 IU / m2 of Oncaspar ® as an intravenous infusion .
One patient experienced a slight increase in liver enzymes .
A second patient developed a rash 10 minutes after the start of the infusion , which was controlled with the administration of an antihistamine and by slowing down the infusion rate .
A third patient did not experience any adverse reactions .
11 DESCRIPTION Oncaspar ® ( pegaspargase ) is a modified version of the enzyme L - asparaginase .
To produce Oncaspar ® , L - asparaginase is modified by covalently conjugating units of monomethoxypolyethylene glycol ( PEG ) , molecular weight of 5 , 000 , to the enzyme , forming the active ingredient PEG - L - asparaginase .
The L ‑ asparaginase ( L - asparagine amidohydrolase , type EC - 2 , EC 3 . 5 . 1 . 1 ) used in the manufacture of Oncaspar ® is derived from E . coli and supplied by Ovation Pharmaceuticals ( U . S . License No . 1688 ) under a shared manufacturing arrangement .
Oncaspar ® activity is expressed in International Units ( IU ) according to the recommendation of the International Union of Biochemistry .
One IU of L - asparaginase is defined as that amount of enzyme required to generate 1 µmol of ammonia per minute at pH 7 . 3 and 37 ° C . Oncaspar ® is supplied as a clear , colorless , preservative - free , isotonic sterile solution in phosphate - buffered saline , pH 7 . 3 .
Each milliliter contains Oncaspar ® 750 IU ± 20 % ( based on specific activity of at least 85 IU per milligram protein ) , 1 . 20 mg monobasic sodium phosphate , USP , 5 . 58 mg dibasic sodium phosphate , USP , and 8 . 50 mg sodium chloride , USP , in water for injection , USP .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of Oncaspar ® is thought to be based on selective killing of leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma asparagine .
Some leukemic cells are unable to synthesize asparagine due to a lack of asparagine synthetase and are dependent on an exogenous source of asparagine for survival .
Depletion of asparagine , which results from treatment with the enzyme L - asparaginase , kills the leukemic cells .
Normal cells , however , are less affected by the depletion due to their ability to synthesize asparagine .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In Study 1 , pharmacodynamics were assessed in 57 newly diagnosed pediatric patients with standard - risk ALL who received three IM doses of Oncaspar ® ( 2 , 500 IU / m2 ) , one each during induction and two delayed intensification treatment phases .
Pharmacodynamic activity was assessed through serial measurements of asparagine in sera ( n = 57 ) and cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) ( n = 50 ) .
The data for asparagine depletion are presented in CLINICAL STUDIES [ seeClinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic assessments were based on an enzymatic assay measuring asparaginase activity .
Serum pharmacokinetics were assessed in 34 newly diagnosed pediatric patients with standard - risk ALL in Study 1 following IM administration of 2 , 500 IU / m2 .
The elimination half - life of Oncaspar ® was approximately 5 . 8 days during the induction phase .
Similar elimination half - lives were observed during Delayed Intensification 1 and Delayed Intensification 2 .
Concentrations greater than 0 . 1 IU / mL were observed in over 90 % of the samples from patients treated with Oncaspar ® during induction , Delayed Intensification 1 , and Delayed Intensification 2 for approximately 20 days .
In 3 pharmacokinetic studies , 37 patients with relapsed ALL received Oncaspar ® at 2 , 500 IU / m2 IM every 2 weeks .
The plasma half - life of Oncaspar ® was 3 . 2 ± 1 . 8 days in 9 patients who were previously hypersensitive to native E . coli L - asparaginase and 5 . 7 ± 3 . 2 days in 28 non - hypersensitive patients .
The area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) was 9 . 5 ± 4 . 0 IU / mL / day in the previously hypersensitive patients and 9 . 8 ± 6 . 0 IU / mL / day in the non - hypersensitive patients .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility • No long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals have been performed with Oncaspar ® .
• No relevant studies addressing mutagenic potential have been conducted .
Oncaspar ® did not exhibit a mutagenic effect when tested against Salmonella typhimurium strains in the Ames assay .
• No studies have been performed on impairment of fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 First - Line ALL The safety and effectiveness of Oncaspar ® was evaluated in an open - label , multicenter , randomized , active - controlled study ( Study 1 ) .
In this study , 118 pediatric patients aged 1 to 9 years with previously untreated standard - risk ALL were randomized 1 : 1 to Oncaspar ® or native E . coli L - asparaginase as part of combination therapy .
Oncaspar ® was administered IM at a dose of 2 , 500 IU / m2 on Day 3 of the 4 ‑ week induction phase and on Day 3 of each of two 8 - week delayed intensification phases .
Native E . coli L ‑ asparaginase was administered IM at a dose of 6 , 000 IU / m2 three times weekly for 9 doses during induction and for 6 doses during each delayed intensification phase .
The primary determination of effectiveness was based on demonstration of similar asparagine depletion ( magnitude and duration ) in the Oncaspar ® and native E . coli L - asparaginase arms .
The protocol - specified goal was achievement of asparagine depletion to a serum concentration of ≤ 1 μM .
The proportion of patients with this level of depletion was similar between the 2 study arms during all 3 phases of treatment at the protocol - specified time points .
In all phases of treatment , serum asparagine concentrations decreased within 4 days of the first dose of asparaginase in the treatment phase and remained low for approximately 3 weeks for both Oncaspar ® and native E . coli L - asparaginase arms .
Serum asparagine concentrations during the induction phase are shown in Figure 1 .
The patterns of serum asparagine depletion in the 2 delayed intensification phases are similar to the pattern of serum asparagine depletion in the induction phase .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : Oncaspar ® ( 2 , 500 IU / m2 IM ) was administered on Day 3 of the 4 - week induction phase .
Native E . coli L ‑ asparaginase ( 6 , 000 IU / m2 IM ) was administered 3 times weekly for 9 doses during induction .
CSF asparagine concentrations were determined in 50 patients during the induction phase .
CSF asparagine decreased from a mean pretreatment concentration of 3 . 1 µM to 1 . 7 µM on Day 4 ± 1 and 1 . 5 µM 25 ± 1 days after administration of Oncaspar ® .
These findings were similar to those observed in the native E . coli L - asparaginase treatment arm .
While the 3 - year Event - Free Survival ( EFS ) for the Oncaspar ® and native E . coli L ‑ asparaginase study arms were similar and in the range of 80 % , Study 1 was not designed to evaluate for differences in EFS rates .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 ALL Patients Hypersensitive to Asparaginase The safety and effectiveness of Oncaspar ® was evaluated in 4 open - label studies enrolling a total of 42 patients with multiply - relapsed , acute leukemia [ 39 ( 93 % ) with ALL ] with a history of prior clinical allergic reaction to asparaginase .
Hypersensitivity to asparaginase was defined by a history of systemic rash , urticaria , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , hypotension , or local erythema , urticaria , or swelling , greater than 2 centimeters , for at least 10 minutes following administration of any form of native E . coli L - asparaginase .
All patients received Oncaspar ® at a dose of 2 , 000 or 2 , 500 IU / m2 administered IM or IV every 14 days .
Patients received Oncaspar ® as a single agent or in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy .
The re ‑ induction response rate was 50 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 35 % , 65 % ) , based upon 36 % complete remissions and 14 % partial remissions .
These results were similar to the overall response rates reported for patients with ALL receiving second - line , native E . coli L - asparaginase - containing re - induction chemotherapy .
Anti - tumor activity was also observed with single - agent Oncaspar ® .
Three responses ( 1 complete remission and 2 partial remissions ) were observed in 9 adult and pediatric patients with relapsed ALL and hypersensitivity to native E . coli L ‑ asparaginase .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dosage Form NDC 57665 - 002 - 02 3 , 750 IU / 5 mL single - use vial individually packaged in a carton Storage and Handling Keep refrigerated at + 2 ° C to + 8ºC ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Use only one dose per vial ; do not re - enter the vial .
Discard unused portions .
Do not save unused drug for later administration .
Do not administer Oncaspar ® if the drug : • has been frozen • has been stored at room temperature ( + 15 ° C to + 25 ° C ; 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) for more than 48 hours • has been shaken or vigorously agitated • is cloudy , discolored , and precipitate is present .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Serious Allergic Reactions Patients should be informed of the possibility of serious allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , and to immediately report any swellings or difficulty breathing .
17 . 2 Thrombosis Patients should be advised to immediately report any severe headache .
Arm or leg swelling , acute shortness of breath , and chest pain also should be reported immediately .
17 . 3 Pancreatitis Patients should be advised to immediately report any severe abdominal pain .
17 . 4 Glucose Intolerance Patients should be advised to report excessive thirst or any increase in the volume or frequency of urination .
U . S . License No . 1171
