DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients : Coal Tar Solution 1 . 8 % .................. Controls the symptoms of dandruff , seborrheic dermatitis and psoriasis Menthol 1 . 5 % .............................. Contols scalp itch Uses : Product relieves and helps stop the recurrence of scalp itching , irritation , redness , flaking and scaling associated with dandruff , seborrheic dermatitis and psoriasis .
Provide relief of itching due to dandruff .
Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor or with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a physician .
Ask a doctor before use if you have a conditiion that covers a large area of the body .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying .
It may increase you tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application .
Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of the product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : Shake well and apply shampoo to wet hair .
Gently massage it into hair and scalp to work up a lather .
Rinse hair thoroughly and repeat for best results .
Use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor .
Other Information : Store at room temperature between 68 - 78 Inactive Ingredients : Caprylyl Glycol , Citric Acid , Cocamide MEA , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Ethanol , FD & C Blue # 1 , Glycerin , Guar Gum , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Melaleuca Alternafolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Water , Zinc Stearate Questions : 1 ( 404 ) 918 - 0020 or www . peteandpedro . com WARNING : This product contains a chemical known to the State of California to cause cancer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
