DESCRIPTION Leucovorin calcium tablets USP contain either 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg or 25 mg leucovorin as the calcium salt of N - [ 4 - [ [ ( 2 - amino - 5 - formyl - 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - hexahydro - 4 - oxo - 6 - pteridinyl ) methyl ] amino ] benzoyl ] - L - glutamic acid .
This is equivalent to either 5 . 4 mg , 10 . 8 mg , 16 . 21 mg or 27 . 01 mg of anhydrous leucovorin calcium , respectively .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Leucovorin is a water - soluble form of reduced folate in the folate group ; it is useful as an antidote to drugs which act as folic acid antagonists .
These tablets are intended for oral administration only .
The structural formula of leucovorin calcium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • C20H21CaN7O7MW 511 . 51 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leucovorin is a racemic mixture of the diastereoisomers of the 5 - formyl derivative of tetrahydrofolic acid .
The biologically active compound of the mixture is the ( - ) - L - isomer , known as Citrovorum factor , or ( - ) - folinic acid .
Leucovorin does not require reduction by the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in order to participate in reactions utilizing folates as a source of “ one - carbon ” moieties .
Following oral administration , leucovorin is rapidly absorbed and enters the general body pool of reduced folates .
The increase in plasma and serum folate activity ( determined microbiologically with Lactobacillus casei ) seen after oral administration of leucovorin is predominantly due to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
Twenty normal men were given a single , oral 15 mg dose ( 7 . 5 mg / m2 ) of leucovorin calcium and serum folate concentrations were assayed with L . casei .
Mean values observed ( ± one standard error ) were : a ) Time to peak serum folate concentration : 1 . 72 ± 0 . 08 hours , b ) Peak serum folate concentration achieved : 268 ± 18 ng / mL , c ) Serum folate half - disappearance time : 3 . 5 hours .
Oral tablets yielded areas under serum folate concentration - time curves ( AUCs ) that were 12 % greater than equal amounts of leucovorin given intramuscularly and equal to the same amounts given intravenously .
Oral absorption of leucovorin is saturable at doses above 25 mg .
The apparent bioavailability of leucovorin was 97 % for 25 mg , 75 % for 50 mg and 37 % for 100 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Leucovorin calcium tablets are indicated to diminish the toxicity and counteract the effects of impaired methotrexate elimination and of inadvertent overdosages of folic acid antagonists .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Leucovorin is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias secondary to the lack of Vitamin B12 .
A hematologic remission may occur while neurologic manifestations continue to progress .
WARNINGS In the treatment of accidental overdosage of folic acid antagonists , leucovorin should be administered as promptly as possible .
As the time interval between antifolate administration ( e . g . , methotrexate ) and leucovorin rescue increases , leucovorin ’ s effectiveness in counteracting hematologic toxicity decreases .
Monitoring of the serum methotrexate concentration is essential in determining the optimal dose and duration of treatment with leucovorin .
Delayed methotrexate excretion may be caused by a third space fluid accumulation ( i . e . , ascites , pleural effusion ) , renal insufficiency , or inadequate hydration .
Under such circumstances , higher doses of leucovorin or prolonged administration may be indicated .
Doses higher than those recommended for oral use must be given intravenously .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil .
Deaths from severe enterocolitis , diarrhea , and dehydration have been reported in elderly patients receiving weekly leucovorin and fluorouracil . 1 Concomitant granulocytopenia and fever were present in some but not all of the patients .
The concomitant use of leucovorin with trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection was associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo - controlled study .
PRECAUTIONS General Parenteral administration is preferable to oral dosing if there is a possibility that the patient may vomit or not absorb the leucovorin .
Leucovorin has no effect on other established toxicities of methotrexate such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and / or metabolite precipitation in the kidney .
Drug Interactions Folic acid in large amounts may counteract the antiepileptic effect of phenobarbital , phenytoin and primidone , and increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible children .
Preliminary animal and human studies have shown that small quantities of systemically administered leucovorin enter the CSF primarily as 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate and , in humans , remain 1 to 3 orders of magnitude lower than the usual methotrexate concentrations following intrathecal administration .
However , high doses of leucovorin may reduce the efficacy of intrathecally administered methotrexate .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with leucovorin .
It is also not known whether leucovorin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Leucovorin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when leucovorin is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use See Drug Interactions subsection .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization , including anaphylactoid reactions and urticaria , has been reported following the administration of both oral and parenteral leucovorin .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive amounts of leucovorin may nullify the chemotherapeutic effect of folic acid antagonists .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Leucovorin calcium tablets are intended for oral administration .
Because absorption is saturable , oral administration of doses greater than 25 mg is not recommended .
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage : Leucovorin rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is delayed excretion ( see WARNINGS ) 2 .
Leucovorin 15 mg ( 10 mg / m2 ) should be administered IM , IV , or PO every 6 hours until serum methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally .
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 - hour intervals .
If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin should be increased to 150 mg ( 100 mg / m2 ) IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
Doses greater than 25 mg should be given parenterally ( see ) .
Hydration ( 3 L / d ) and urinary alkalinization with sodium bicarbonate should be employed concomitantly .
The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to maintain the urine pH at 7 or greater .
The recommended dose of leucovorin to counteract hematologic toxicity from folic acid antagonists with less affinity for mammalian dihydrofolate reductase than methotrexate ( i . e . , trimethoprim , pyrimethamine ) is substantially less , and 5 to 15 mg of leucovorin per day has been recommended by some investigators .
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to develop reversible non - oliguric renal failure .
In addition to appropriate leucovorin therapy , these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalinization , and close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status , until serum methotrexate level has fallen below 0 . 05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved .
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal function following methotrexate administration , which are significant but less severe .
These abnormalities may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity .
If significant clinical toxicity is observed , leucovorin rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours ( total of 14 doses over 84 hours ) in subsequent courses of therapy .
The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact with methotrexate ( e . g . , medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination or binding to serum albumin ) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities or clinical toxicities are observed .
HOW SUPPLIED Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 5 mg are off - white , round biconvex tablets , debossed “ Є ” above “ 358 ” on one side and bisected on the other side and are supplied as follows .
• NDC 42806 - 358 - 30 Bottles of 30 • NDC 42806 - 358 - 01 Bottles of 100 Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 10 mg are off - white , round biconvex tablets , debossed “ Є ” above “ 133 ” on one side and bisected on the other side and are supplied as follows .
NDC 42806 - 133 - 21 Bottles of 12 NDC 42806 - 133 - 24 Bottles of 24 Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 15 mg are off - white , round biconvex tablets , debossed “ Є ” above “ 134 ” on one side and bisected on the other side and are supplied as follows .
NDC 42806 - 134 - 24 Bottles of 24 • Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 25 mg are off - white , round biconvex tablets , debossed “ Є ” above “ 359 ” on one side and bisected on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows .
NDC 42806 - 359 - 25 Bottles of 25 Store at Controlled Room Temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Grem JL , Shoemaker DD , Petrelli NJ , Douglas HO .
Severe and fatal toxic effects observed in treatment with high - and low - dose leucovorin plus 5 - fluorouracil for colorectal carcinoma .
Cancer Treat Rep 1987 ; 71 : 1122 .
• 2 .
Link MP , Goorin AM , Miser AW et al .
The effect of adjuvant chemotherapy on relapse - free survival patients with osteosarcoma of the extremity .
N Engl J Med 1986 ; 314 : 1600 – 1606 .
Distributed by : Epic Pharma , LLC Laurelton , NY 11413 Rev . 10 - 2019 - 00 MF358REV10 / 19 OE2930 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 5 mg 100 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 10 mg 12 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 15 mg 24 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP , 25 mg 25 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
