Multiple Electrolyte Additive Contains No Phosphate Rxonly Concentrated Solution — For intravenous use only after dilution and thorough mixing .
Formulated to provide additive electrolytes for patients receiving total parenteral nutrition .
Plastic Vial DESCRIPTION TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of intra - and extracellular ions for intravenous infusion after dilution as a maintenance electrolyte replenisher only .
It contains no phosphate and no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
The pH is 6 . 6 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The osmolar concentration is 6 . 2 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
__________________________ * Total Parenteral Nutrition Ingredients and ion constituents of the solution are as follows : Ingredient or Ion mg / 20 mL mEq / 20 mL Sodium Chloride 321 Calcium Chloride ( dihydrate ) 331 Potassium Chloride 1491 Magnesium Chloride ( hexahydrate ) 508 Sodium Acetate ( anhydrous ) 2420 Sodium ( Na + ) 35 Potassium ( K + ) 20 Calcium ( Ca + + ) 4 . 5 Magnesium ( Mg + + ) 5 Chloride ( Cl − ) 35 Acetate ( CH3COO − ) 29 . 5 Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
Calcium Chloride , USP dihydrate is chemically designated CaCl2 • 2H2O , white , odorless fragments or granules , freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Magnesium Chloride , USP hexahydrate is chemically designated MgCl2 • 6H2O , deliquescent crystals very soluble in water .
Sodium Acetate , USP anhydrous is chemically designated C2H3NaO2 , a hygroscopic powder very soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) helps to maintain normal cellular metabolism during TPN ( total parenteral nutrition ) .
Providing electrolytes in appropriate amounts prevents deficiency symptoms which otherwise would occur in their absence .
Cations : Sodium is the principal extracellular cation ; it helps maintain motor nerve depolarization , proper fluid balance and normal renal metabolism .
Potassium is the principal intracellular cation ; it helps transport dextrose across the cell membrane and contributes to normal renal function .
Magnesium is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and helps to maintain normal CNS ( central nervous system ) activity and amino acid utilization .
Calcium participates in muscle contraction , blood coagulation and helps maintain normal neuromuscular function .
Anions : Chloride is the principal extracellular anion which , along with bicarbonate , is involved in maintaining proper anion balance .
Acetate is an important metabolic intermediate in the tricarboxylic acid cycle and is a bicarbonate alternate .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium ( Ca + + ) is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium ( K + ) is found in low concentration in the plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Normally about 80 % to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine , the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Magnesium ( Mg + + ) is the second most plentiful intracellular cation .
Normal plasma concentration ranges from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 or 3 . 0 mEq per liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Acetate ( CH3COO − ) provides bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) is indicated for use as a supplement to nutritional solutions containing concentrated dextrose and amino acids delivered by central venous infusion , to help maintain electrolyte homeostasis in adult patients .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) is contraindicated in pathological conditions where additives of potassium , sodium , calcium , magnesium or chloride could be clinically deleterious , e . g . , anuria , hyperkalemia , heart block or myocardial damage and severe edema due to cardiovascular , renal or hepatic failure .
WARNINGS CONCENTRATED , HYPERTONIC , ADDITIVE SOLUTION .
Must be diluted in TPN solution prior to administration .
CONTAINS NO PHOSPHATE .
Patients receiving TPN solutions containing concentrated dextrose require additive phosphate , in addition to TPN Electrolytes .
Between 10 and 15 mM ( 310 to 465 mg ) phosphorus are physically compatible with as much as 10 to 12 mEq calcium in the same admixture .
The phosphate supplement should first be added to the amino acid or dextrose bottle and diluted well to avoid precipitation with calcium .
CONTAINS 20 mEq of POTASSIUM .
The potassium content of other additives , such as potassium phosphate or potassium - containing antibiotics , must be considered in the context of total potassium delivered .
TPN patients usually require 30 to 50 mEq of potassium per liter of TPN solution containing concentrated ( 20 — 25 % ) dextrose .
NOT INTENDED FOR PEDIATRIC USE .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
Warning : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Blood levels of sodium , potassium , calcium , magnesium , phosphorus and chloride should be monitored frequently during TPN ( total parenteral nutrition ) .
Significant deviations from normal may justify further supplementation or substitution of individual electrolyte additives ( in place of TPN Electrolytes ) to tailor the electrolyte supplement to meet individual patient requirements .
In patients with renal dysfunction or cardiovascular insufficiency , especially in elderly or postsurgical patients , consider the potential effects of sodium ( 35 mEq ) and potassium ( 20 mEq ) present in TPN Electrolytes .
Extraordinary electrolyte losses are not necessarily corrected by TPN Electrolytes .
In protracted vomiting or diarrhea or in patients with fistula drainage or nasogastric suction , separate replacement therapy may be necessary , based upon analysis of losses sustained .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with TPN Electrolytes .
It is also not known whether TPN Electrolytes can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
TPN Electrolytes should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
GERIATRIC USE An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sodium ions and phosphorus are known to be substantially secreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in TPN Electrolytes .
Therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte blood levels is recommended .
Sodium excess can cause edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure .
Excess potassium can cause deviations from the normal ECG ( electrocardiogram ) .
Potassium deficits can impair neuromuscular function , causing muscle weakness or frank paralysis , intestinal dilatation and ileus .
Calcium deficits can produce neuromuscular hyperexcitability , ranging from paresthesias , cramps and laryngospasm to tetany and grand mal seizures .
Depressed calcium levels can accompany administration of parenteral phosphorous or large amounts of albumin .
Magnesium deficiency can precipitate neuromuscular dysfunction , hyperirritability , psychotic behavior , tachycardia and hypertension .
Magnesium excess can cause muscle weakness , ECG changes , sedation and mental confusion .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None known .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 20 mL volume of TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) is added to each liter of amino acid / dextrose solution .
Alternatively , the TPN Electrolytes can be added to the bottle of amino acids or concentrated dextrose , to permit addition of the necessary phosphate additive to the remaining bottle .
This latter technique helps avoid physical incompatibilities between calcium and phosphorus .
A potassium phosphate additive is recommended for addition to nutritional solutions containing TPN Electrolytes .
Between 10 and 30 mEq of potassium ( as phosphate ) should be added per liter of TPN solution , to augment the 20 mEq of potassium provided by TPN Electrolytes .
Between two and three liters of TPN solution with added TPN Electrolytes are usually administered daily to adults .
Solutions are given continuously over the entire 24 - hour period at a constant rate , ranging from 83 to 125 mL / hour .
TPN solutions containing TPN Electrolytes and concentrated dextrose are administered intravenously , through a central venous catheter .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED TPN Electrolytes ( multiple electrolyte additive ) is supplied in the following single - dose delivery system : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 0409 - 5779 - 01 25 in a carton 20 mL NDC 0409 - 5779 - 11 20 mL Vial Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1091 - 1 . 0 Revised : 9 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Label 20 mL Single - dose TPN * ELECTROLYTES MULTIPLE ELECTROLYTE ADDITIVE Rx only * Total Parenteral Nutrition CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Carton 20 mL Single - dose NDC 0409 - 5779 - 01 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 5779 - 11 TPN * Electrolytes Multiple Electrolyte Additive * Total Parenteral Nutrition Rx only CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED .
FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
