Active ingredient ( Maximum Strength ) Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Active ingredient ( Regular Strength ) Benzoyl peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne ; helps prevent new acne blemishes from forming Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you have very sensitive skin • if you are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • using warm water , wash the affected area for 1 to 2 minutes • rinse well and pat dry with a clean towel • because too much drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information Store at controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients cetearyl alcohol , cocamidopropyl betaine , glycerin , hydrogenated castor oil , lactic acid , mineral oil , PEG - 14 M , potassium lauryl sulfate , potassium phosphate , purified water , silica , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , zea mays ( corn ) starch Questions ?
call 1 - 888 - 784 - 3335 ( STIEFEL ) .
Side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Maximum Strength Now you can take control of your acne with Maximum Strength PanOxyl ® Acne Cleansing Bar , the highest strength of Benzoyl Peroxide ( BPO ) available without a prescription .
The Benzoyl Peroxide in the PanOxyl ® Acne Cleansing Bar is the same medicine prescribed by dermatologists .
The convenient bar form of PanOxyl ® gently removes dirt and excess oil to cleanse and unclog pores , making it an excellent choice for the management of acne on the face , chest and back .
Regular Strength Now you can take control of your acne with the PanOxyl ® Acne Cleansing Bar .
The 5 % Benzoyl Peroxide in the PanOxyl ® Acne Cleansing Bar is the same medicine prescribed by dermatologists .
The convenient bar form of PanOxyl ® Acne Cleansing Bar gently removes dirt and excess oil to cleanse and unclog pores , making it an excellent choice for the management of acne on the face , chest and back .
PANOXYL is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc .
www . stiefelchc . com © 2010 Stiefel Laboratories , Inc .
Stiefel Laboratories , Inc .
Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Relabeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Principal Display Panel NDC 54868 - 2656 - 0 PanOxyl ® 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Maximum Strength ACNE CLEANSING BAR DERMATOLOGIST Recommended Ingredients Therapeutic acne control FACE CHEST BACK • Benzoyl Peroxide effectively penetrates pores killing the bacteria that cause acne • Clears existing acne blemishes and prevents new blemishes from forming Net Wt 4 Oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 54868 - 2655 - 0 PanOxyl ® 5 % Benzoyl Peroxide Regular Strength ACNE CLEANSING BAR DERMATOLOGIST Recommended Ingredients Therapeutic acne control FACE CHEST BACK • Benzoyl Peroxide effectively penetrates pores killing the bacteria that cause acne • Clears existing acne blemishes and prevents new blemishes from forming Net Wt 4 Oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
