1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Locoid Lipocream is indicated for : • • Relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adults .
• • The topical treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients 3 months to 18 years of age .
Locoid Lipocream ® is a corticosteroid indicated for : • • Relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adults .
( 1 ) • • The treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months to 18 years of age .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adults , apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 or 3 times daily , depending on the severity of the condition , and rub in gently .
For atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months to 18 years of age , apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 times daily and rub in gently .
Do not apply Locoid Lipocream in the diaper area unless directed by a physician .
Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Before prescribing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefits of extending treatment to 4 weeks should be weighed against the risk of HPA - axis suppression and local adverse events .
The safety and efficacy of Locoid Lipocream has not been established beyond 4 weeks of use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Do not use Locoid Lipocream with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Avoid use in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
Locoid Lipocream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 or 3 times daily for corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adults .
( 2 ) • • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 times daily for atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age and older .
( 2 ) • • Rub in gently .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue Locoid Lipocream when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • Reassess diagnosis if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks .
Before prescribing for more than 2 weeks , any additional benefits of extending treatment to 4 weeks should be weighed against the risk of hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression and local adverse events .
Safety and efficacy of Locoid Lipocream has not been established beyond 4 weeks of use .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use under occlusion or in the diaper area .
( 2 ) • • Locoid Lipocream is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 1 % .
Each gram of Locoid Lipocream contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a white to off - white hydrophilic cream base .
Locoid Lipocream is supplied in tubes of 45 g and 60 g . Cream , 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg / g ) supplied in tubes of 45 g and 60 g . ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression may occur , with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
Consider periodic evaluations for HPA - axis suppression if Locoid Lipocream is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion .
If HPA - axis suppression is noted , reduce the application frequency , discontinue use , or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA - axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria .
Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA - axis suppression after use of Locoid Lipocream .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of Locoid Lipocream due to their larger skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis .
This may be done by using cosyntropin ( ACTH1 - 24 ) stimulation testing ( CST ) .
Minimize systemic corticosteroid effects by mitigating the risk factors for increased systemic absorption and using Locoid Lipocream as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
If HPA - axis suppression is noted , the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn , or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted .
Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal , antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of Locoid Lipocream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing .
Discontinue Locoid Lipocream if the diagnosis is established [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • HPA - axis suppression .
This has been observed in pediatric subjects using Locoid Lipocream [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] • • Concomitant skin infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Allergic contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) are application site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety data derived from Locoid Lipocream clinical trials reflect exposure to Locoid Lipocream twice daily for up to 4 weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis .
Adverse reactions shown in the table below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to Locoid Lipocream .
Table 1 .
Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis Locoid Lipocream ( n = 131 ) Vehicle ( n = 133 ) Application site reactions , including application site folliculitis , irritation , dermatitis , erythema 1 . 5 % 1 . 5 % Acne 0 . 8 % 0 . 0 % Telangiectasia 0 . 0 % 0 . 8 % 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , drying , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Locoid Lipocream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Note : The animal multiples of human exposure calculations in this label were based on body surface area comparisons for an adult ( i . e . , mg / m2 / day dose comparisons ) assuming 100 % human percutaneous absorption of a maximum topical human dose ( MTHD ) for hydrocortisone butyrate cream ( 25 g ) .
Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 - 17 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , fetal effects noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) included an increased incidence of ossification variations and unossified sternebra .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 5 . 4 and 1 . 8 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 2 X MTHD and 0 . 7 X MTHD , respectively ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 7 - 20 .
An increased incidence of abortion was noted at 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal body weight was noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Additional indicators of embryofetal toxicity ( reduction in litter size , decreased number of viable fetuses , increased post - implantation loss ) were noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Additional fetal effects noted in this study included delayed ossification noted at doses ≥ 0 . 1 mg / kg / day and an increased incidence of fetal malformations ( primarily skeletal malformations ) noted at doses ≥ 0 . 2 mg / kg / day .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were observed was not established in this study .
Additional systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and mice .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 1 and 9 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 9 – 15 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , an increase in fetal deaths and fetal resorptions and an increase in the number of ossifications in caudal vertebrae were noted at a dose of 9 mg / kg / day ( 3 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at 0 . 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 2 and 1 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female mice during gestation days 7 – 13 .
In the absence of maternal toxicity , an increased number of cervical ribs and one fetus with clubbed legs were noted at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity were noted at doses of 1 and 0 . 2 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 0 . 2 X MTHD and 0 . 1 X MTHD , respectively ) .
No topical embryofetal development studies were conducted with hydrocortisone butyrate cream .
However , topical embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with a hydrocortisone butyrate ointment formulation .
Topical doses of 1 % and 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment were administered to pregnant female rats during gestation days 6 – 15 or pregnant female rabbits during gestation days 6 - 18 .
A dose - dependent increase in fetal resorptions was noted in rabbits ( 0 . 2 – 2 X MTHD ) and fetal resorptions were noted in rats at the 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose ( 80 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at the 1 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment dose in rats ( 8 X MTHD ) .
A dose at which no treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were observed in rabbits after topical administration of hydrocortisone butyrate ointment was not established in this study .
No treatment - related effects on teratogenicity were noted at a dose of 10 % hydrocortisone butyrate ointment in rats or rabbits ( 80 X MTHD and 2 X MTHD , respectively ) .
A peri - and postnatal development study was conducted in rats .
Subcutaneous doses of 0 . 6 , 1 . 8 , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day hydrocortisone butyrate were administered to pregnant female rats from gestation day 6 – lactation day 20 .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , a dose - dependent decrease in fetal weight was noted at doses ≥ 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on fetal toxicity were noted at 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
A delay in sexual maturation was noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 X MTHD ) .
No treatment - related effects on sexual maturation were noted at 1 . 8 mg / kg / day .
No treatment - related effects on behavioral development or subsequent reproductive performance were noted at 5 . 4 mg / kg / day .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in breast milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in breast milk , caution should be exercised when Locoid Lipocream is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established .
Because of higher skin - surface - to - body - mass ratios , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
They are therefore also at a greater risk of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment .
Eighty - six ( 86 ) pediatric subjects ( between 5 months and 18 years of age ) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis affecting at least 25 % of body surface area ( BSA ) treated with Locoid Lipocream 3 times daily for up to 4 weeks were assessed for HPA - axis suppression in two separate studies .
The disease severity ( moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ) and the dosing regimen ( 3 times daily ) in these HPA - axis studies were different from the subject population ( mild to moderate atopic dermatitis ) and the dosing regimen ( 2 times daily ) for which Locoid Lipocream is indicated in this population .
Five of the 82 evaluable subjects ( 6 . 1 % ) demonstrated evidence of suppression , where the criterion for defining HPA - axis suppression was a serum cortisol level of ≤ 18 mcg / dL after cosyntropin stimulation .
Suppressed subjects ranged in age from 5 months to 16 years and , at the time of enrollment , had 25 % to 95 % BSA involvement .
These subjects did not demonstrate any clinical signs or symptoms despite evidence of HPA - axis suppression .
At the first follow - up visit , approximately 1 month after the conclusion of treatment , cosyntropin stimulation results of all subjects had returned to normal , with the exception of one subject .
This last subject recovered adrenal function by 65 days post - treatment .
Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have also been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include low plasma cortisol levels to an absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Locoid Lipocream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Locoid Lipocream ( hydrocortisone butyrate ) Cream , 0 . 1 % contains hydrocortisone butyrate , a non - fluorinated hydrocortisone ester , for topical use .
The chemical name of hydrocortisone butyrate is 11ß , 17 , 21 - Trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - butyrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone butyrate is a white to off - white powder with a molecular weight of 432 . 56 , and a molecular formula of C25H36O6 .
It is practically insoluble in water , slightly soluble in ether , soluble in methanol , in alcohol , and in acetone , and freely soluble in chloroform .
Each gram of Locoid Lipocream contains 1 mg of hydrocortisone butyrate in a white to off - white hydrophilic cream base consisting of anhydrous citric acid , butylparaben , ceteth - 20 , cetostearyl alcohol , mineral oil , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin , occlusive dressings , or widespread application may increase percutaneous absorption and increase the risk of HPA - axis suppression .
The vasoconstrictor assay showed that Locoid Lipocream had a more pronounced skin blanching effect than Locoid Cream , suggesting greater percutaneous absorption from the former .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal rat carcinogenicity study with Locoid Lotion , hydrocortisone butyrate was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 0 . 05 , 0 . 15 , and 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males and 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 1 % lotion ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest doses evaluated in this study of 0 . 3 mg / kg / day in males ( 0 . 1 X MTHD ) and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day in females ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
Hydrocortisone butyrate revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames test and L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse micronucleus assay ) .
No evidence of impairment of fertility or effect on mating performance was observed in a fertility and general reproductive performance study conducted in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to and including 1 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 X MTHD ) .
Mild effects on maternal animals , such as reduced food consumption and a subsequent reduction in body weight gain , were seen at doses ≥ 0 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 X MTHD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Pediatric Atopic Dermatitis In a multicenter , randomized , vehicle - controlled trial of 264 pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis , Locoid Lipocream or vehicle was applied twice daily for up to 4 weeks .
Treatment success was assessed at Day 29 ( after 28 days of treatment ) and was defined as the proportion of patients who achieved both “ clear ” or “ almost clear ” and at least a 2 - grade improvement from baseline on a 5 - point Physician ’ s Global Assessment ( PGA ) scale .
Study results are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Efficacy Results at Day 29 in Pediatric Subjects Locoid Lipocream ( n = 131 ) Vehicle ( n = 133 ) Number ( % ) successes 82 ( 63 % ) 37 ( 28 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Locoid Lipocream ® Cream , 0 . 1 % is white to off - white in color , and supplied in tubes of 45 g ( NDC 16781 - 384 - 45 ) and 60 g ( NDC 16781 - 384 - 60 ) .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients of the following : • • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 or 3 times daily for corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in adults and rub in gently .
Consult with physician to determine if treatment is needed beyond 2 weeks .
• • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas 2 times daily for atopic dermatitis in patients 3 months of age or older , and rub in gently .
Safety of Locoid Lipocream in pediatric patients has not been established beyond 4 weeks of use .
• • Discontinue Locoid Lipocream when control is achieved .
• • Do not use for longer than 4 weeks .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• • Do not bandage , otherwise cover , or wrap the affected skin area so as to be occlusive unless directed by physician .
• • Do not use Locoid Lipocream in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings .
• • Do not use Locoid Lipocream on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by physician .
• • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact physician .
• • Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products while using Locoid Lipocream without first consulting physician .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Ferndale Laboratories , Inc .
Ferndale , MI 48220 USA Locoid and Locoid Lipocream are trademarks of Leo Pharma A / S used under license .
© 2021 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9421902 Package / Label Display Panel – Locoid Lipocream 45 g Carton NDC 16781 - 384 - 45 Locoid Lipocream ® ( hydrocortisone butyrate ) Cream , 0 . 1 % Rx only For topical use only Net Wt .
45 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
