[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated for in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten ( 10 ) minutes apart .
• • Instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily ( 2 ) .
• • If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten ( 10 ) minutes apart ( 2 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Solution containing 10 mg / mL brinzolamide .
• • Solution containing 10 mg / mL brinzolamide ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
• • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Corneal edema may occur in patients with low endothelial cell counts ( 5 . 2 ) .
5 . 1 Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity Reactions Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is a sulfonamide and although administered topically it is absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is re - administered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur , discontinue the use of this preparation .
5 . 2 Corneal Endothelium Carbonic anhydrase activity has been observed in both the cytoplasm and around the plasma membranes of the corneal endothelium .
There is an increased potential for developing corneal edema in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
Caution should be used when prescribing brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % to this group of patients .
5 . 3 Severe Renal Impairment Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
Because brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % and its metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney , brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is not recommended in such patients .
5 . 4 Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma The management of patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma requires therapeutic interventions in addition to ocular hypotensive agents .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % has not been studied in patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma .
5 . 5 Contact Lens Wear The preservative in brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are blurred vision and bitter , sour or unusual taste ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical studies of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , the most frequently reported adverse reactions reported in 5 to 10 % of patients were blurred vision and bitter , sour or unusual taste .
Adverse reactions occurring in 1 to 5 % of patients were blepharitis , dermatitis , dry eye , foreign body sensation , headache , hyperemia , ocular discharge , ocular discomfort , ocular keratitis , ocular pain , ocular pruritus and rhinitis .
The following adverse reactions were reported at an incidence below 1 % : allergic reactions , alopecia , chest pain , conjunctivitis , diarrhea , diplopia , dizziness , dry mouth , dyspnea , dyspepsia , eye fatigue , hypertonia , keratoconjunctivitis , keratopathy , kidney pain , lid margin crusting or sticky sensation , nausea , pharyngitis , tearing and urticaria .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • There is a potential additive effect of the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving both oral and topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • Rare instances of acid - base alterations have occurred with high - dose salicylate therapy ( 7 . 2 ) .
7 . 1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
The concomitant administration of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended .
7 . 2 High - Dose Salicylate Therapy Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may produce acid - base and electrolyte alterations .
These alterations were not reported in the clinical trials with brinzolamide .
However , in patients treated with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , rare instances of acid - base alterations have occurred with high - dose salicylate therapy .
Therefore , the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Developmental toxicity studies with brinzolamide in rabbits at oral doses of 1 , 3 , and 6 mg / kg / day ( 20 , 62 , and 125 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) produced maternal toxicity at 6 mg / kg / day and a significant increase in the number of fetal variations , such as accessory skull bones , which was only slightly higher than the historic value at 1 and 6 mg / kg .
In rats , statistically decreased body weights of fetuses from dams receiving oral doses of 18 mg / kg / day ( 375 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) during gestation were proportional to the reduced maternal weight gain , with no statistically significant effects on organ or tissue development .
Increases in unossified sternebrae , reduced ossification of the skull , and unossified hyoid that occurred at 6 and 18 mg / kg were not statistically significant .
No treatment - related malformations were seen .
Following oral administration of 14 C - brinzolamide to pregnant rats , radioactivity was found to cross the placenta and was present in the fetal tissues and blood .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers In a study of brinzolamide in lactating rats , decreases in body weight gain in offspring at an oral dose of 15 mg / kg / day ( 312 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were seen during lactation .
No other effects were observed .
However , following oral administration of 14 C - brinzolamide to lactating rats , radioactivity was found in milk at concentrations below those in the blood and plasma .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use A three - month controlled clinical study was conducted in which brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % was dosed only twice a day in pediatric patients 4 weeks to 5 years of age .
Patients were not required to discontinue their IOP - lowering medication ( s ) until initiation of monotherapy with brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
IOP - lowering efficacy was not demonstrated in this study in which the mean decrease in elevated IOP was between 0 and 2 mmHg .
Five out of 32 patients demonstrated an increase in corneal diameter of one millimeter .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Although no human data are available , electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and possible nervous system effects may occur following oral administration of an overdose .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
11 DESCRIPTION Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor formulated for multidose topical ophthalmic use .
Brinzolamide is described chemically as : ( R ) - ( + ) - 4 - Ethylamino - 2 - ( 3 - methoxypropyl ) - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - thieno [ 3 , 2 - e ] - 1 , 2 - thiazine - 6 - sulfonamide - 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C12H21N3O5S3 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Brinzolamide has a molecular weight of 383 . 5 and a melting point of about 131 ° C .
It is a white powder , which is insoluble in water , very soluble in methanol and soluble in ethanol .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is supplied as a sterile , aqueous suspension of brinzolamide which has been formulated to be readily suspended and slow settling , following shaking .
It has a pH of approximately 7 . 5 and an osmolality of 300 mOsm / kg .
Each mL of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains : Active ingredient : brinzolamide 10 mg .
Preservative : Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg .
Inactives : mannitol , carbomer 974 P , tyloxapol , edetate disodium , sodium chloride , purified water , with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carbonic anhydrase ( CA ) is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body including the eye .
It catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In humans , carbonic anhydrase exists as a number of isoenzymes , the most active being carbonic anhydrase II ( CA - II ) , found primarily in red blood cells ( RBCs ) , but also in other tissues .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor secretion , presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport .
The result is a reduction in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains brinzolamide , an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase II ( CA - II ) .
Following topical ocular administration , brinzolamide inhibits aqueous humor formation and reduces elevated intraocular pressure .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following topical ocular administration , brinzolamide is absorbed into the systemic circulation .
Due to its affinity for CA - II , brinzolamide distributes extensively into the RBCs and exhibits a long half - life in whole blood ( approximately 111 days ) .
In humans , the metabolite N - desethyl brinzolamide is formed , which also binds to CA and accumulates in RBCs .
This metabolite binds mainly to CA - I in the presence of brinzolamide .
In plasma , both parent brinzolamide and N - desethyl brinzolamide concentrations are low and generally below assay quantitation limits ( < 10 ng / mL ) .
Binding to plasma proteins is approximately 60 % .
Brinzolamide is eliminated predominantly in the urine as unchanged drug .
N - Desethyl brinzolamide is also found in the urine along with lower concentrations of the N - desmethoxypropyl and O - desmethyl metabolites .
An oral pharmacokinetic study was conducted in which healthy volunteers received 1 mg capsules of brinzolamide twice per day for up to 32 weeks .
This regimen approximates the amount of drug delivered by topical ocular administration of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % dosed to both eyes three times per day and simulates systemic drug and metabolite concentrations similar to those achieved with long - term topical dosing .
RBC CA activity was measured to assess the degree of systemic CA inhibition .
Brinzolamide saturation of RBC CA - II was achieved within 4 weeks ( RBC concentrations of approximately 20 mcM ) .
N - Desethyl brinzolamide accumulated in RBCs to steady - state within 20 to 28 weeks reaching concentrations ranging from 6 to 30 mcM .
The inhibition of CA - II activity at steady - state was approximately 70 to 75 % , which is below the degree of inhibition expected to have a pharmacological effect on renal function or respiration in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Brinzolamide caused urinary bladder tumors in female mice at oral doses of 10 mg / kg / day and in male rats at oral doses of 8 mg / kg / day in 2 year studies .
Brinzolamide was not carcinogenic in male mice or female rats dosed orally for up to 2 years .
The carcinogenicity appears secondary to kidney and urinary bladder toxicity .
These levels of exposure cannot be achieved with topical ophthalmic dosing in humans .
The following tests for mutagenic potential were negative : ( 1 ) in vivo mouse micronucleus assay ; ( 2 ) in vivo sister chromatid exchange assay ; and ( 3 ) Ames E . coli test .
The in vitro mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay was negative in the absence of activation , but positive in the presence of microsomal activation .
In reproduction studies of brinzolamide in rats , there were no adverse effects on the fertility or reproductive capacity of males or females at doses up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 375 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two , three - month clinical studies , brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % dosed three times per day in patients with elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) , produced significant reductions in IOPs ( 4 to 5 mmHg ) .
These IOP reductions are equivalent to the reductions observed with TRUSOPT * ( dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 2 % dosed three times per day in the same studies .
In two clinical studies in patients with elevated intraocular pressure , brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % was associated with less stinging and burning upon instillation than TRUSOPT * 2 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % is supplied in plastic DROP - TAINER ® dispensers with a controlled dispensing - tip as follows : 10 mL NDC : 63629 - 8793 - 1 Storage and Handling Store brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % at 4 ° C to 30 ° C ( 39 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Shake well before use .
DROP - TAINER ® is registered trademark of Alcon Research , Ltd .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Sulfonamide Reactions Advise patients that if serious or unusual ocular or systemic reactions or signs of hypersensitivity occur , they should discontinue the use of the product and consult their physician .
17 . 2 Temporary Blurred Vision Vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
Advise patients to exercise care in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
17 . 3 Avoiding Contamination of the Product Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures or other surfaces , since the product can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
17 . 4 Intercurrent Ocular Conditions Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
17 . 5 Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten minutes apart .
17 . 6 Contact Lens Wear The preservative in brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1 % , but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
* TRUSOPT is a registered trademark of Merck & Co . , Inc .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 T2017 - 74 November 2015 Brinzolamide Ophthalmic Susp 1 % # 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
