Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , including carpet and clothing , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information • keep outer box for full product information • keep tightly closed • store at controlled room temperature 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Water , Gluconolactone , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 40 Stearate , Glycerin , PEG - 100 Stearate , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Xanthan Gum , Benzyl Alcohol , Ammonium Hydroxide , Arginine , Benzoic Acid , Sorbic Acid , Titanium Dioxide Questions ?
1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : RB Health ( US ) , Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton Clearasil ® RAPID RESCUE SPOT TREATMENT CREAM Benzoyl Peroxide Acne Medication VISIBLE RESULTS AS FAST AS 4 HOURS MAXIMUM STRENGTH STARTS TO WORK INSTANTLY Net wt .
1 oz ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
