Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 % , Octisalate 5 % , and Octocrylene 1 . 85 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away rom face to avoid breathing it .
Contents under pressre - do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 0 F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Directions • Spray liberally and spread by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well ventilated areas .
• reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hour • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Mineral Oil ( Paraffinum Liquidum ) , Polyester - 8 , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( Alcohol Denat . )
, VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other information • Protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun • Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration • Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 950 - 2563 www . aloeup . com Aloe Up Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Continuous Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
