Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • he lps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For externa l use on ly Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swa llowed , get medica l help or contact a Poison Contro l Center right away .
F lammab le : Avoid fire , f lame heat and smoking .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Store at temperatures below 120 ° F ( 50 ° C ) .
Directions • shake well before use • apply liberaly 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly Into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in a well - ventilated area • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients SD Alcohol 40 - B , Trimethoxybenzylidene Pentanedione , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Glycerin , Fragrance , Water , Polyester - 8 , Tocopheryl Acetate , Eucalyptus Globulus ( Eucalyptus ) Leaf Extract , Porphyra Umbilicalis Extract , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 885 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) AUSTRALIAN GOLD BOTANICAL 70 NATURAL SPRAY SUNSCREEN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
