Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 64 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Is an ideal hand cleaning product .
Warnings For external use only .
• Undrinkable • Keep away from children , food and animal feeds .
When Using This Product General Recommendation : As a general rule , if an unexpected situation in encountered or symptoms persist , consult a doctor .
Never try to induce vomiting unconscious person .
Take the patient to fresh air .
Keep calm and warm .
By Inhalation : Move the injured person to fresh air and keep it in a comfortable position for easy breathing .
If any discomfort continues , consult a doctor .
In case of Skin Contact : In case of rash , burning or itching , wash with plenty of water and rinse .
If irritation persists , do not use the product and consult your doctor .
Eye Contact : Check and remove if you have contact lenses .
In case of contact with eyes , wash the upper and lower covers occasionally for at least 15 minutes with plenty of water and consult a doctor immediately .
Ingestion : Do not induce vomiting .
Do not give anything by mouth in case of fainting .
Call a doctor immediately and seek medical help .
Antidote of product and necessary informations : No specific antidote that is known .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions The product is used in hands and palms as a dosage in public and personal areas .
After cleaning the area to be applied with water and soap , take the product as much as necessary .
Use by rubbing on the hands , including between the toes , the inside of the nails , all the inner and outer surfaces of the hand .
There is no need to rinse .
Other information It is toxic for the bees .
It can be harmful to fish and aquatic organisms .
It is recommended that children use it under adult control .
Avoid direct eye contact .
Store in a cool , dry place where it does not get sunlight .
Store upright in its original package .
Inactive ingredients Water , Thickener and Glycerin .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 695 - 3030 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
( Mon - Fri 9 : AM - 5 : 00 PM ) ANTIBACTERIAL GEL SANITIZING STRENGTH Production date : Expiration date : Two years from the date of production Manufactured by Silvia Kimya Ürünleri San . Ve Tic . Ltd . Şti Yenibosna Merkez Mah .
Yalçin Kores Cad .
Maolya 1 sk .
No : 4 Bahçelievler / ISTANBUL Yenibosna V . D : 770 043 8446 MADE IN TURKEY Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
