Drugs Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablets ) Famotidine USP 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• protect from moisture Inactive ingredients Hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , talc and titanium dioxide .
Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 346 - 6854 Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited , Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Iss . 130810 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
