Drug Facts Active Ingredient Non - Nano Uncoated Zinc Oxide 22 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn and chapped lips • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For full protection , apply liberally ( 2 mg / cm 2 of skin ) to exposed skin 15 minutes before sun exposure , then rub in to reduce whitening effect .
Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures : • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging • To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • For children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Ingredients [ 1 ] Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , null Cera Alba ( Beeswax ) , null Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , null Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , null Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Sweet Orange ) Peel Oil , null Citrus Tangerina ( Tangerine ) Peel Oil , Tocopherol ( Sunflower Vitamin E ) , null Vanilla Planifolia ( Vanilla ) Fruit Extract .
[ 1 ] = Certified Organic .
2 - = Extra Virgin Olive Oil .
Other Information Store at temperatures below 90ºF .
Questions ?
603 - 357 - 2958 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 18 . 4 g Applicator Box Clear Sport SPF 35 BADGER ® Kids Tangerine & Vanilla Broad Spectrum SPF 35 Natural Mineral All Season Face Stick Water Resistant 80 min NON GMO CLEAR ZINC REEF FRIENDLY 97 % ORGANIC INGREDIENTS & CLEAR ZINC OXIDE ingredients Net Wt 18 . 4 g / . 65 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
