Form and Presentation Cream : Tube 15 g Purpose Instant Anti - Puffiness Active Ingredients Acetyl Tetrapeptide - 5 Acetyl Octapeptide - 3 Composition Aqua , Sodium Silicate , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Butylene Glycol , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Phenoxyethanol , Xanthan Gum , Ethylhexylglycerin , Caprylyl Glycol .
Properties Derma firm eye is an effective Instant Anti - Puffiness which helps to diminish eye bags and the appearance of dark circles with just one single application per day .
Its revolutionary technology immediately targets eye bags and dark circles , by using a unique combination of clay minerals and a bi - peptide complex which will lead to strong skin tightening , a decrease of fluid accumulation under the eyes and a micro - muscular pause .
Perfume , dyes and paraben free .
Indication Derma firm eye is specially formulated to address eye bags and dark circles around the delicate eye area Contraindicatons Hypersensitivity to any of the components Precautions • Must only be used as directed .
• Avoid excessive sun exposure .
• Do not use on damaged skin ( e . g . open or infected wounds , third degree burns , acne , eczema ) .
Only use on normal healthy , non - infected skin .
• To ensure optimal performance and to avoid dependence on the product , it is advised to allow the under - eye skin to rest a few days ( 4 - 5 ) after using the product daily for 4 weeks .
In case of occasional use of the product there is no need for a resting period .
• Do not use if the packaging has been damaged .
• Not recommended for children under the age of 16 .
• Once opened , it ’ s advised to use the product within 3 months .
Precaution Keep out of reach of children Warnings • For external use only .
• Avoid contact with eyes .
Rinse thoroughly with water in the event of contact with the eyes .
• Discontinue use if irritation ( redness , pain , etc . ) occurs .
If skin irritation occurs , consult your physician if the symptoms persist for more than 48 hr .
Pregnancy Not recommended for pregnant women Lactation Not recommended for breastfeeding women Interactions Oil - based makeup may reduce the effectiveness of the product Side effects Irritation ( redness , pain , etc . ) can occur Dosage and administration 1 .
Wash your face gently and pat dry .
2 .
Apply an eye moisturizer ( non - oil based ) and wait for a minute or two so it can be completely absorbed into the skin .
3 .
Squeeze out a small amount of product on your fingertip .
You should aim for the size of a grain of rice ; any less will be not enough , and any more is generally too much and won ’ t be fully absorbed into the skin or could cause sensitivity .
4 .
Rub the product between your 2 index fingers for 5 – 10 seconds .
Make sure there is still enough cream between the fingers .
In case it doesn ’ t feel wet anymore , take a small amount on your fingertip again .
5 .
Gently apply the cream on your entire under eye area , and smooth it out from the inside to the outside with one finger .
Blend in using a light gentle sweeping motion until the cream completely absorbs into the skin .
6 .
Remain expressionless for 2 - 3 minutes while the product dries to achieve dramatic results ( fanning will accelerate the process ) .
Simply tissue off the excess of cream with a bit of water if too much cream is applied .
Wash hands and close the tube after use .
To Remove : Cleanse applied area with water and pat dry .
For under make up : First , apply your usual products ( eye serum , daily moisturizer , etc . ) and allow time for these products to penetrate the layers of your skin ( a minute or two ) .
Then you can apply a very thin layer of derma firm eye to the targeted area as instructed .
Once the product has dried , apply your makeup as usual .
If you see a white residue you have either used too much product or did not use moisturizer .
Simply tissue off the white residue with a bit of water .
• Only use once a day .
Do not use the product continuously for more than 4 weeks .
• The effects will last anywhere from 8 – 10 hours on average , without makeup the effects can last longer .
Storage Condition Store below 30 ◦ C Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
