1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Eplerenone is an aldosterone antagonist indicated for : • The treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctio ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 2 Hypertension Eplerenone tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular ( CV ) events , primarily strokes and MI .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive CV risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive CV risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce CV morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent CV outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in MI and CV mortality also have been seen regularly . Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce CV morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent CV outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in MI and CV mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased CV risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal . Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased CV risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy . Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension : 50 mg once daily .
For inadequate response , increase to 50 mg twice daily .
Higher dosages are not recommended .
( 2 . 2 ) For all patients : Measure serum potassium before starting eplerenone tablets and periodically thereafter .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 2 Hypertension The recommended starting dose of eplerenone tablets are 50 mg administered once daily .
The full therapeutic effect of eplerenone tablet is apparent within 4 weeks .
For patients with an inadequate blood pressure response to 50 mg once daily increase the dosage of eplerenone tablets to 50 mg twice daily .
Higher dosages of eplerenone tablets are not recommended because they have no greater effect on blood pressure than 100 mg and are associated with an increased risk of hyperkalemia .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) . ]
2 . 3 Recommended Monitoring Measure serum potassium before initiating eplerenone tablets therapy , within the first week , and at one month after the start of treatment or dose adjustment .
Assess serum potassium periodically thereafter .
Check serum potassium and serum creatinine within 3 to 7 days of a patient initating a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , angiotensin - II blockers or non - steroidal - anti - inflammatories .
2 . 4 Dose Modifications for Use with Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors In patients with hypertension receiving a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , initiate at 25 mg once daily .
For inadequate blood pressure response , dosing may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) . ]
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 25 mg tablets : yellow diamond shape biconvex film - coated tablets debossed with E1 on one side and plain on the other side .
• 50 mg tablets : yellow diamond shape biconvex film - coated tablets debossed with E2 on one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 25 mg , 50 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS For all patients : • Serum potassium > 5 . 5 mEq / L at initiation ( 4 ) • Creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) For the treatment of hypertension : • Type 2 diabetes with microalbuminuria ( 4 ) • Serum creatinine > 2 . 0 mg / dL in males , > 1 . 8 mg / dL in females ( 4 ) • Creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ( 4 ) • Concomitant use of potassium supplements or potassium - sparing diuretics ( 4 ) For All Patients Eplerenone tablets are contraindicated in all patients with : • serum potassium > 5 . 5 mEq / L at initiation , • creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min , or • concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , nefazodone , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , ritonavir , and nelfinavir ) .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
For Patients Treated for Hypertension Eplerenone tablets are contraindicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients with : • type 2 diabetes with microalbuminuria , • serum creatinine > 2 . 0 mg / dL in males or > 1 . 8 mg / dL in females , • creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min , or • concomitant administration of potassium supplements or potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , amiloride , spironolactone , or triamterene ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperkalemia : Patients with decreased renal function diabetes , proteinuria or patients who are taking ARBs , NSAIDs or moderate CYP3A inhibitors are at increased risk .
Monitor serum potassium levels and adjust dose as needed .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hyperkalemia The risk of hyperkalemia is higher in patients with impaired renal function , proteinuria , diabetes and those concomitantly treated with ARBs , NSAIDs and moderate CYP3A inhibitors .
Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring [ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Monitor patients for the development of hyperkalemia until the effect of eplerenone is established .
Patients who develop hyperkalemia ( 5 . 5 to 5 . 9 mEq / L ) may continue eplerenone therapy with proper dose adjustment .
Dose reduction decreases potassium levels .
Patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors that cannot be avoided should have their dose of eplerenone reduced .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hyperkalemia [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hypertension : In clinical studies , adverse reactions with eplerenone were uncommon .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Accord Healthcare Inc at 1 - 866 - 941 - 7875 or www . accordhealthcare . us or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Hypertension Eplerenone has been evaluated for safety in 3 , 091 patients treated for hypertension .
A total of 690 patients were treated for over 6 months and 106 patients were treated for over 1 year .
In placebo - controlled studies , the overall rates of adverse events were 47 % with eplerenone and 45 % with placebo .
Adverse events occurred at a similar rate regardless of age , gender , or race .
Therapy was discontinued due to an adverse event in 3 % of patients treated with eplerenone and 3 % of patients given placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of eplerenone were headache , dizziness , angina pectoris / MI , and increased GGT .
Gynecomastia and abnormal vaginal bleeding were reported with eplerenone but not with placebo .
The rates increased with increasing duration of therapy .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of eplerenone .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin : angioneurotic edema , rash 6 . 3 Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Hypertension Potassium : In placebo - controlled fixed - dose studies , the mean increases in serum potassium were dose - related and are shown in Table 4 along with the frequencies of values > 5 . 5 mEq / L .
Table 4 .
Increases in Serum Potassium in the Placebo - Controlled , Fixed - Dose Hypertension Studies of Eplerenone Mean Increase mEq / L % > 5 . 5 mEq / L Daily Dosage n Placebo 194 0 1 25 97 0 . 08 0 50 245 0 . 14 0 100 193 0 . 09 1 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A Inhibitors : In patients with hypertension initiate at 25 mg once daily .
For inadequate blood pressure response , dosing may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily .
( 2 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1CYP3A Inhibitors Eplerenone metabolism is predominantly mediated via CYP3A .
Do not use eplerenone with drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP3A .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
In post - MI HFrEF patients taking a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , do not exceed 25 mg once daily .
In patients with hypertension taking a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , initiate at 25 mg once daily .
For inadequate blood pressure response , dosing may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
7 . 2 Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists The risk of hyperkalemia increases when eplerenone is used in combination with an ARB .
A close monitoring of serum potassium and renal function is recommended , especially in patients at risk for impaired renal function , e . g . , the elderly [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
7 . 3 Lithium A drug interaction study of eplerenone with lithium has not been conducted .
Serum lithium levels should be monitored frequently if eplerenone is administered concomitantly with lithium .
7 . 4 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) A drug interaction study of eplerenone with an NSAID has not been conducted .
The administration of other potassium - sparing antihypertensives with NSAIDs has been shown to reduce the antihypertensive effect in some patients and result in severe hyperkalemia in patients with impaired renal function .
Therefore , when eplerenone and NSAIDs are used concomitantly , monitor blood pressure and serum potassium levels .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data from published case reports on eplerenone use during pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed when eplerenone was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposures 32 and 31 times , respectively the human exposure at the 100 mg / day therapeutic dose .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Pregnant women with heart failure are at increased risk for preterm birth .
Stroke volume and heart rate increase during pregnancy , increasing cardiac output , especially during the first trimester .
Clinical classification of heart disease may worsen with pregnancy and lead to maternal death .
Closely monitor pregnant patients for destabilization of their heart failure .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal development studies were conducted with doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day in rats and 300 mg / kg / day in rabbits ( exposures up to 32 and 31 times the human AUC for the 100 mg / day therapeutic dose , respectively ) administered during organogenesis .
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats or rabbits , although decreased rat fetal weights were observed , and decreased body weight in maternal rabbits and increased rabbit fetal resorptions and post - implantation loss were observed at the highest administered dosages .
In a pre - and postnatal development study pregnant rats were administered eplerenone at doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day from Gestation Day 6 through Lactation Day 20 .
Decreased pup weights were observed beginning at birth at 1000 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no human data available on whether eplerenone is present in human milk , or has effects on breastfed infants or on milk production .
Eplerenone was present in the milk of lactating rats .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility based on animal data , use of eplerenone may compromise male fertility .
In mature rats , male fertility was decreased with eplerenone exposure at 17 times the 100 mg / day human therapeutic dose .
Reversibility of effects was not evaluated [ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use In a 10 - week study of 304 hypertensive pediatric patients age 4 to 16 years treated with eplerenone up to 100 mg per day , doses that produced exposure similar to that in adults , eplerenone did not lower blood pressure effectively .
In this study and in a 1 - year pediatric safety study in 149 patients ( age range 5 to 17 years ) , the incidence of reported adverse events was similar to that of adults .
Eplerenone has not been studied in hypertensive patients less than 4 years old because the study in older pediatric patients did not demonstrate effectiveness .
Eplerenone has not been studied in pediatric patients with heart failure .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Hypertension Of the total number of subjects in clinical hypertension studies of eplerenone , 1 , 123 ( 23 % ) were 65 and over , while 212 ( 4 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly subjects and younger subjects , however due to age - related decreases in creatine clearance , the risk of hyperkalemia may be increased [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No cases of human overdosage with eplerenone have been reported .
Lethality was not observed in mice , rats , or dogs after single oral doses that provided C max exposures at least 25 times higher than in humans receiving eplerenone 100 mg / day .
Dogs showed emesis , salivation , and tremors at a C max 41 times the human therapeutic C max , progressing to sedation and convulsions at higher exposures .
The most likely manifestation of human overdosage would be anticipated to be hypotension or hyperkalemia .
Eplerenone cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
Eplerenone has been shown to bind extensively to charcoal .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
If hyperkalemia develops , standard treatment should be initiated .
11 DESCRIPTION Eplerenone tablet contains eplerenone , a blocker of aldosterone binding at the mineralocorticoid receptor .
Eplerenone is chemically described as Pregn - 4 - ene - 7 , 21 - dicarboxylic acid , 9 , 11 - epoxy - 17 - hydroxy - 3 - oxo - , γ - lactone , methyl ester , ( 7α , 11α , 17α ) - .
Its empirical formula is C 24 H 30 O 6 and it has a molecular weight of 414 . 50 .
The structural formula of eplerenone is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Eplerenone is an odorless , white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water , with its solubility essentially pH - independent .
The octanol / water partition coefficient of eplerenone is approximately 7 . 1 at pH 7 . 0 .
Eplerenone tablets for oral administration contains 25 mg or 50 mg of eplerenone and the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose , purified talc , magnesium stearate , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , iron oxide yellow and iron oxide red .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Eplerenone binds to the mineralocorticoid receptor and blocks the binding of aldosterone , a component of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone - system ( RAAS ) .
Aldosterone synthesis , which occurs primarily in the adrenal gland , is modulated by multiple factors , including angiotensin II and non - RAAS mediators such as adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) and potassium .
Aldosterone binds to mineralocorticoid receptors in both epithelial ( e . g . , kidney ) and nonepithelial ( e . g . , heart , blood vessels , and brain ) tissues and increases blood pressure through induction of sodium reabsorption and possibly other mechanisms .
Eplerenone has been shown to produce sustained increases in plasma renin and serum aldosterone , consistent with inhibition of the negative regulatory feedback of aldosterone on renin secretion .
The resulting increased plasma renin activity and aldosterone circulating levels do not overcome the effects of eplerenone .
Eplerenone selectively binds to human mineralocorticoid receptors relative to its binding to recombinant human glucocorticoid , progesterone , and androgen receptors .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics There was no significant change in average heart rate among patients treated with eplerenone in the combined clinical studies .
No consistent effects of eplerenone on heart rate , QRS duration , or PR or QT interval were observed in 147 normal subjects evaluated for electrocardiographic changes during pharmacokinetic studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Eplerenone is cleared predominantly by cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 metabolism , with an elimination half - life of 3 to 6 hours .
Steady state is reached within 2 days .
Absorption is not affected by food .
Inhibitors of CYP3A ( e . g . , ketoconazole , saquinavir ) increase blood levels of eplerenone .
Absorption and Distribution Mean peak plasma concentrations of eplerenone are reached approximately 1 . 5 to 2 hours following oral administration .
Absorption is not affected by food .
The absolute bioavailability of eplerenone is 69 % following administration of a 100 mg oral tablet .
Both peak plasma levels ( C max ) and area under the curve ( AUC ) are dose proportional for doses of 25 mg to 100 mg and less than proportional at doses above 100 mg .
Upon repeat dosing , steady state levels are reached within 2 days .
The plasma protein binding of eplerenone is about 50 % and it is primarily bound to alpha 1 - acid glycoproteins .
The apparent volume of distribution at steady state ranged from 42 to 90 L . Eplerenone does not preferentially bind to red blood cells .
Metabolism and Excretion Eplerenone metabolism is primarily mediated via CYP3A4 .
No active metabolites of eplerenone have been identified in human plasma .
Less than 5 % of an eplerenone dose is recovered as unchanged drug in the urine and feces .
Following a single oral dose of radiolabeled drug , approximately 32 % of the dose was excreted in the feces and approximately 67 % was excreted in the urine .
The elimination half - life of eplerenone is approximately 3 to 6 hours .
The apparent plasma clearance is approximately 10 L / hr .
Age , Gender , and Race The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone at a dose of 100 mg once daily has been investigated in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years ) , in males and females , and in Blacks .
At steady state , elderly subjects had increases in C max ( 22 % ) and AUC ( 45 % ) compared with younger subjects ( 18 to 45 years ) .
The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone did not differ significantly between males and females .
At steady state , C max was 19 % lower and AUC was 26 % lower in Blacks .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) . ]
Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone was evaluated in patients with varying degrees of renal impairment and in patients undergoing hemodialysis .
Compared with control subjects , steady state AUC and C max were increased by 38 % and 24 % , respectively , in patients with severe renal impairment and were decreased by 26 % and 3 % , respectively , in patients undergoing hemodialysis .
No correlation was observed between plasma clearance of eplerenone and creatinine clearance .
Eplerenone is not removed by hemodialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone 400 mg has been investigated in patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment and compared with normal subjects .
Steady state C max and AUC of eplerenone were increased by 3 . 6 % and 42 % , respectively .
Heart Failure The pharmacokinetics of eplerenone 50 mg was evaluated in 8 patients with heart failure ( NYHA classification II – IV ) and 8 matched ( gender , age , weight ) healthy controls .
Compared with the controls , steady state AUC and C max in patients with stable heart failure were 38 % and 30 % higher , respectively .
Drug - Drug Interactions Eplerenone is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 .
Inhibitors of CYP3A cause increased exposure [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with a 100 mg dose of eplerenone .
Following a single dose of eplerenone 100 mg and CYP3A inhibitor ketoconazole 200 mg twice a day eplerenone ’ s Cmax was 1 . 7 - fold and AUC was 5 . 4 - fold compared with eplerenone alone .
Administration of eplerenone with moderate CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , erythromycin 500 mg BID , verapamil 240 mg once daily , saquinavir 1200 mg three times a day , fluconazole 200 mg once daily ) resulted in increases in Cmax of eplerenone ranging from 40 % to 60 % and AUC from 100 % to 190 % .
Grapefruit juice caused a 25 % increase in exposure .
Eplerenone is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , CYP2C9 , or CYP2D6 .
Eplerenone did not inhibit the metabolism of amiodarone , amlodipine , astemizole , chlorzoxazone , cisapride , dexamethasone , dextromethorphan , diclofenac , 17α - ethinyl estradiol , fluoxetine , losartan , lovastatin , mephobarbital , methylphenidate , methylprednisolone , metoprolol , midazolam , nifedipine , phenacetin , phenytoin , simvastatin , tolbutamide , triazolam , verapamil , or warfarin in vitro .
Eplerenone is not a substrate or an inhibitor of P - Glycoprotein at clinically relevant doses .
No clinically significant drug - drug pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when eplerenone was administered with cisapride , cyclosporine , digoxin , glyburide , midazolam , oral contraceptives ( norethindrone / ethinyl estradiol ) , simvastatin , or warfarin .
St . John ' s wort ( a CYP3A inducer ) caused a small ( about 30 % ) decrease in eplerenone AUC .
No significant changes in eplerenone pharmacokinetics were observed when eplerenone was administered with aluminum - and magnesium - containing antacids .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Eplerenone was non - genotoxic in a battery of assays including in vitro bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames test in Salmonella spp .
and E . Coli ) , in vitro mammalian cell mutagenesis ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , in vitro chromosomal aberration ( Chinese hamster ovary cells ) , in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus formation , and in vivo / ex vivo unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat liver .
There was no drug - related tumor response in heterozygous P53 deficient mice when tested for 6 months at dosages up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( systemic AUC exposures up to 9 times the exposure in humans receiving the 100 mg / day therapeutic dose ) .
Statistically significant increases in benign thyroid tumors were observed after 2 years in both male and female rats when administered eplerenone 250 mg / kg / day ( highest dose tested ) and in male rats only at 75 mg / kg / day .
These dosages provided systemic AUC exposures approximately 2 to 12 times higher than the average human therapeutic exposure at 100 mg / day .
Repeat dose administration of eplerenone to rats increases the hepatic conjugation and clearance of thyroxin , which results in increased levels of TSH by a compensatory mechanism .
Drugs that have produced thyroid tumors by this rodent - specific mechanism have not shown a similar effect in humans .
Male rats treated with eplerenone at 1000 mg / kg / day for 10 weeks ( AUC 17 times that at the 100 mg / day human therapeutic dose ) had decreased weights of seminal vesicles and epididymides and slightly decreased fertility .
Dogs administered eplerenone at dosages of 15 mg / kg / day and higher ( AUC 5 times that at the 100 mg / day human therapeutic dose ) had dose - related prostate atrophy .
The prostate atrophy was reversible after daily treatment for 1 year at 100 mg / kg / day .
Dogs with prostate atrophy showed no decline in libido , sexual performance , or semen quality .
Testicular weight and histology were not affected by eplerenone in any test animal species at any dosage .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 2 Hypertension The safety and efficacy of eplerenone has been evaluated in clinical studies of 3091 hypertensive patients .
The studies included 46 % women , 14 % Blacks , and 22 % elderly ( age ≥ 65 ) .
The studies excluded patients with elevated baseline serum potassium ( > 5 . 0 mEq / L ) and elevated baseline serum creatinine ( generally > 1 . 5 mg / dL in males and > 1 . 3 mg / dL in females ) .
Two fixed - dose , placebo - controlled , 8 - to 12 - week monotherapy studies in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 to 114 mm Hg were conducted to assess the antihypertensive effect of eplerenone .
In these two studies , 611 patients were randomized to eplerenone and 140 patients to placebo .
Patients received eplerenone in doses of 25 mg to 400 mg daily as either a single daily dose or divided into two daily doses .
The mean placebo - subtracted reductions in trough cuff blood pressure achieved by eplerenone in these studies at doses up to 200 mg are shown in Figures 3 and 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients treated with eplerenone 50 mg to 200 mg daily experienced significant decreases in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough with differences from placebo of 6 to 13 mm Hg ( systolic ) and 3 to 7 mm Hg ( diastolic ) .
These effects were confirmed by assessments with 24 - hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring ( ABPM ) .
In these studies , assessments of 24 - hour ABPM data demonstrated that eplerenone , administered once or twice daily , maintained antihypertensive efficacy over the entire dosing interval .
However , at a total daily dose of 100 mg , eplerenone administered as 50 mg twice per day produced greater trough cuff ( 4 / 3 mm Hg ) and ABPM ( 2 / 1 mm Hg ) blood pressure reductions than 100 mg given once daily .
Blood pressure lowering was apparent within 2 weeks from the start of therapy with eplerenone , with maximal antihypertensive effects achieved within 4 weeks .
Stopping eplerenone following treatment for 8 to 24 weeks in six studies did not lead to adverse event rates in the week following withdrawal of eplerenone greater than following placebo or active control withdrawal .
Blood pressures in patients not taking other antihypertensives rose 1 week after withdrawal of eplerenone by about 6 / 3 mm Hg , suggesting that the antihypertensive effect of eplerenone was maintained through 8 to 24 weeks .
Blood pressure reductions with eplerenone in the two fixed - dose monotherapy studies and other studies using titrated doses , as well as concomitant treatments , were not significantly different when analyzed by age , gender , or race with one exception .
In a study in patients with low renin hypertension , blood pressure reductions in Blacks were smaller than those in whites during the initial titration period with eplerenone .
Eplerenone has been studied concomitantly with treatment with ARBs , calcium channel blockers and beta - blockers .
When administered concomitantly with one of these drugs eplerenone usually produced its expected antihypertensive effects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Eplerenone tablets , 25 mg , are yellow diamond shape biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with “ E1 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC Number Size 16729 - 293 - 10 Bottle of 30 tablets 16729 - 293 - 15 Bottle of 90 tablets 16729 - 293 - 16 Bottle of 500 tablets 16729 - 293 - 17 Bottle of 1000 tablets 16729 - 293 - 82 Hospital Unit Dose Blister Packages of 100 ( 10 x 10 unit dose ) Eplerenone tablets , 50 mg , are yellow diamond shape biconvex film - coated tablets , debossed with “ E2 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC Number Size 16729 - 294 - 10 Bottle of 30 tablets 16729 - 294 - 15 Bottle of 90 tablets 16729 - 294 - 16 Bottle of 500 tablets 16729 - 294 - 17 Bottle of 1000 tablets 16729 - 294 - 82 Hospital Unit Dose Blister Packages of 100 ( 10 x 10 unit dose ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients receiving eplerenone tablets : • Not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
• To call their physician if they experience dizziness , diarrhea , vomiting , rapid or irregular heartbeat , lower extremity edema , or difficulty breathing .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Manufactured For : Accord Healthcare , Inc . , 1009 Slater Road , Suite 210 - B , Durham , NC 27703 , USA .
Manufactured By : Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited , Plot No .
: 457 , 458 , Village – Matoda , Bavla Road , Ta .
- Sanand , Dist .
- Ahmedabad – 382 210 , INDIA .
10 3268 1 696340 Issued April 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Tablet - Bottle of 30 NDC 16729 - 293 - 10 Eplerenone Tablets 25 mg Rx only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Tablet - Bottle of 30 NDC 16729 - 294 - 10 Eplerenone Tablets 50 mg Rx only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
