Skin Bleaching Cream Rx only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION Each gram of Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Bleaching Cream contains 40 mg hydroquinone USP , in a vanishing cream base of aqua ( water ) , ascorbic acid , BHT , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , glycolic acid , methylparaben , propylparaben , saponins , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium metabisulfite , stearyl alcohol and tocopheryl acetate .
Chemically , hydroquinone is C6H6O2 and has a molecular weight of 110 . 11 .
The chemical name is 1 , 4 dihydroxybenzene , and the structural formula of hydroquinone is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) ( Denton , C . et al . , 1952 ) 1 and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes ( Jimbow , K . et al . , 1974 ) 2 .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of bleached areas ( Parrish , J . A . et al . , 1978 ) 3 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Bleaching Cream is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to hydroquinone or to any of the ingredients of the product .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or for children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
Since this product contains no sunscreen , an effective broad spectrum sun blocking agent should be used and unnecessary solar exposure avoided , or protective clothing should be worn to cover bleached skin in order to prevent repigmentation from occurring .
Hydroquinone may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin .
If this condition occurs , discontinue treatment and consult your physician .
The majority of patients developing this condition are Black , but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics .
PRECAUTIONS ( see WARNINGS ) General Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin ; check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
Information for Patients Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
To prevent repigmentation , during treatment and maintenance therapy , sun exposure on treated skin should be avoided by application of a broad spectrum sunscreen ( SPF 15 or greater ) or by use of protective clothing .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , call a physician or a poison control center immediately .
Drug Interactions Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of hydroquinone in animals have demonstrated some evidence of carcinogenicity .
The carcinogenic potential of hydroquinone in humans is unknown .
Published studies have demonstrated that hydroquinone is a mutagen and a clastogen .
Treatment with hydroquinone has resulted in positive findings for genetic toxicity in the Ames assay in bacterial strains sensitive to oxidizing mutagens , in in vitro studies in mammalian cells , and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether topical hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Topical hydroquinone should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when topical hydroquinone is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness for pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported : dryness and fissuring of paranasal and intraorbital areas , erythema , and stinging .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may develop .
If this occurs , the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Bleaching Cream should be applied to affected areas and rubbed in well twice daily , in the morning and before bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after 2 months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
There is no recommended dosage for pediatric patients under 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Bleaching Cream is available as follows : 1 oz ( 28 . 35 g ) tube ( NDC 42582 - 700 - 01 ) Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES 1 DENTON C . , LERNER A . B . , FITZPATRICK T . B . Inhibition of Melanin Formation by Chemical Agents Journal of Investigative Dermatology 1952 , 18 : 119 - 135 .
2 JIMBOW K . , OBATA H . , PATHAK M . , FITZPATRICK T . B . Mechanism of Depigmentation by Hydroquinone Journal of Investigative Dermatology 1974 , 62 : 436 - 449 .
3 PARRISH J . A . , ANDERSON R . R . , URBACH F . , PITTS D . UVA , Biological Effects of Ultraviolet Radiation with Emphasis on Human Responses to Longwave Ultraviolet Plenum Press , New York and London , 1978 , p . 151 .
Manufactured for Bi - Coastal Pharma International LLC Red Bank , New Jersey 07701 USA Rev . 05 / 14 Skin Bleaching Cream PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 35 g Tube Carton Rx only Bi - Coastal Pharma International LLC NDC 42582 - 700 - 01 Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Bleaching Cream Net Wt 1 oz ( 28 . 35 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
