Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Transderm Scōp is indicated in adults for the prevention of : • • nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness .
• • post - operative nausea and vomiting ( PONV ) associated with recovery from anesthesia and / or opiate analgesia and surgery .
Transderm Scōp is an anticholinergic indicated in adults for the prevention of : • • nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness .
( 1 ) • • post - operative nausea and vomiting ( PONV ) associated with recovery from anesthesia and / or opiate analgesia and surgery .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Application and Removal ( 2 . 1 ) : • • Each Transderm Scōp transdermal system delivers 1 mg of scopolamine over 3 days .
• • Only wear one transdermal system at a time .
• • Do not cut the transdermal system .
• • Wash hands thoroughly after application .
• • Upon removal , fold used transdermal system in half with sticky side together , and discard to prevent accidental contact or ingestion .
Recommended Dosage : • • Motion Sickness : Apply one transdermal system to the hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before antiemetic effect is required for use up to 3 days .
If therapy for more than 3 days is required , remove the first transdermal system and apply a new transdermal system behind the other ear .
( 2 . 2 ) • • PONV : For surgeries other than cesarean section , apply one transdermal system behind the ear the evening before surgery .
For cesarean section , apply one hour prior to surgery .
Remove 24 hours following surgery .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Application and Removal Instructions • • Each Transderm Scōp transdermal system is formulated to deliver in vivo approximately 1 mg of scopolamine over 3 days .
• • Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• • Do not cut the transdermal system .
• • Apply the transdermal system to the skin in the postauricular area ( hairless area behind one ear ) .
• • After the transdermal system is applied on the dry skin behind the ear , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry hands [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• • If the transdermal system becomes displaced , discard the transdermal system , and apply a new transdermal system on the hairless area behind the other ear .
• • Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
2 . 2 Recommended Adult Dosage Motion Sickness Apply one Transderm Scōp transdermal system to the hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before the antiemetic effect is required – for use up to 3 days .
If therapy is required for longer than 3 days , remove the first transdermal system and apply a new Transderm Scōp transdermal system behind the other ear .
PONV • • For surgeries other than cesarean section : Apply one Transderm Scōp transdermal system the evening before scheduled surgery .
• • For cesarean section surgery : Apply one hour prior to cesarean section to minimize exposure of the newborn baby to the drug .
• • Remove the transdermal system 24 hours following surgery .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Transdermal system : a circular , flat , tan - colored transdermal system imprinted with “ Scopolamine 1 mg / 3 days ” Transdermal system : 1 mg / 3 days ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Transderm Scōp is contraindicated in patients with : • • angle closure glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • hypersensitivity to scopolamine or other belladonna alkaloids or to any ingredient or component in the formulation or delivery system .
Reactions have included rash generalized and erythema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
• • Angle closure glaucoma .
( 4 , 6 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity to scopolamine or other belladonna alkaloids or to any ingredient or component of the formulation or delivery system .
( 4 , 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma : Monitor for increased intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma and adjust glaucoma therapy as needed .
Discontinue if signs or symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma develop .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions : May cause psychiatric and cognitive effects , seizures and impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during treatment and during concomitant treatment with other drugs that are associated with similar psychiatric effects .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • • Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women : Avoid use in patients with severe preeclampsia .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment in patients suspected of having intestinal obstruction ; patients with pyloric obstruction , urinary bladder neck obstruction or receiving other anticholinergic drugs .
Discontinue if patient develops difficulty in urination .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) • • Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms : Anticholinergic symptoms may occur 24 hours or more after removal of the transdermal system .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Blurred Vision : Avoid contact with the eyes .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 6 ) • • Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI ) Skin Burns : Remove Transderm Scōp prior to MRI scan .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma The mydriatic effect of scopolamine may cause an increase in intraocular pressure resulting in acute angle closure glaucoma .
Monitor intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma and adjust glaucoma therapy during Transderm Scōp use , as needed .
Advise patients to immediately remove the transdermal system and contact their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma ( e . g . , eye pain or discomfort , blurred vision , visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema ) .
5 . 2 Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Scopolamine has been reported to exacerbate psychosis .
Other psychiatric reactions have also been reported , including acute toxic psychosis , agitation , speech disorder , hallucinations , paranoia , and delusions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during treatment with Transderm Scōp .
Also , monitor patients for new or worsening psychiatric symptoms during concomitant treatment with other drugs that are associated with similar psychiatric effects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Seizures Seizures and seizure - like activity have been reported in patients receiving scopolamine .
Weigh this potential risk against the benefits before prescribing Transderm Scōp to patients with a history of seizures , including those receiving anti - epileptic medication or who have risk factors that can lower the seizure threshold .
Cognitive Adverse Reactions Scopolamine can cause drowsiness , disorientation , and confusion .
Discontinue Transderm Scōp if signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment develop .
Elderly and pediatric patients may be more sensitive to the neurological and psychiatric effects of Transderm Scōp .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with Transderm Scōp in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Transderm Scōp is not approved for use in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Hazardous Activities Transderm Scōp may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as driving a motor vehicle , operating machinery or participating in underwater sports .
Concomitant use of other drugs that cause central nervous system ( CNS ) adverse reactions ( e . g . , alcohol , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , and anxiolytics ) or have anticholinergic properties ( e . g . , other belladonna alkaloids , sedating antihistamines , meclizine , tricyclic antidepressants , and muscle relaxants ) may increase this effect [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients not to operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery or participate in underwater sports until they are reasonably certain that Transderm Scōp does not affect them adversely .
5 . 3 Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women Eclamptic seizures have been reported in pregnant women with severe preeclampsia soon after injection of intravenous and intramuscular scopolamine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Avoid use of Transderm Scōp in patients with severe preeclampsia .
5 . 4 Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders Scopolamine , due to its anticholinergic properties , can decrease gastrointestinal motility and cause urinary retention .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with Transderm Scōp in patients suspected of having intestinal obstruction , patients with pyloric obstruction or urinary bladder neck obstruction and patients receiving other anticholinergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Discontinue Transderm Scōp in patients who develop difficulty in urination .
5 . 5 Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms Discontinuation of Transderm Scōp , usually after several days of use , may result in withdrawal symptoms , such as disturbances of equilibrium , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , sweating , headache , mental confusion , muscle weakness , bradycardia and hypotension .
The onset of these symptoms is generally 24 hours or more after the transdermal system has been removed .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention if they experience severe symptoms .
5 . 6 Blurred Vision Scopolamine can cause temporary dilation of the pupils resulting in blurred vision if it comes in contact with the eyes .
Advise patients to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry their hands immediately after handling the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Magnetic Resonance Imaging ( MRI ) Skin Burns Transderm Scōp contains an aluminized membrane .
Skin burns have been reported at the application site in patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during an MRI scan .
Remove Transderm Scōp before undergoing an MRI .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • • Acute Angle Closure Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Eclamptic Seizures in Pregnant Women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal and Urinary Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Blurred Vision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • MRI Skin Burns [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Most common adverse reactions are : • • Motion Sickness ( > 15 % ) : dry mouth , drowsiness , blurred vision and dilation of the pupils .
( 6 . 1 ) • • PONV ( ≥ 3 % ) : dry mouth , dizziness , somnolence , agitation , visual impairment , confusion , mydriasis and pharyngitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare at 1 - 800 - 398 - 5876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / Safety / MedWatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Motion Sickness The most common adverse reaction ( approximately two thirds ) was dry mouth .
Less common adverse reactions , included drowsiness ( less than one sixth ) , blurred vision and dilation of the pupils .
PONV Common adverse reactions , occurring in at least 3 % of patients in PONV clinical trials are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Common Adverse Reactions * in Surgical Patients for the Prevention of PONV * occurring in at least 3 % of patients and at a rate higher than placebo Transderm Scōp % ( N = 461 ) Placebo % ( N = 457 ) Dry mouth 29 16 Dizziness 12 7 Somnolence 8 4 Agitation 6 4 Visual Impairment 5 3 Confusion 4 3 Mydriasis 4 0 Pharyngitis 3 2 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of scopolamine transdermal system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Psychiatric disorders : acute psychosis including : hallucinations , disorientation , and paranoia Nervous system disorders : headache , amnesia , coordination abnormalities , speech disorder , disturbance in attention , restlessness General disorders and administration site conditions : application site burning Eye disorders : dry eyes , eye pruritus , angle closure glaucoma , amblyopia , eyelid irritation Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash generalized , skin irritation , erythema Renal and urinary disorders : dysuria Ear and labyrinth disorders : vertigo 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Drugs Causing Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions : Monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions ( drowsiness , dizziness or disorientations ) .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Anticholinergic Drugs : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment in patients receiving other anticholinergic drugs .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach : Monitor for increased or decreased therapeutic effect of the oral drug .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test : Discontinue use of Transderm Scōp 10 days prior to testing .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Causing Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Adverse Reactions The concurrent use of Transderm Scōp with other drugs that cause CNS adverse reactions of drowsiness , dizziness or disorientation ( e . g . , sedatives , hypnotics , opiates , anxiolytics and alcohol ) or have anticholinergic properties ( e . g . , other belladonna alkaloids , sedating antihistamines , meclizine , tricyclic antidepressants , and muscle relaxants ) may potentiate the effects of Transderm Scōp [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Either Transderm Scōp or the interacting drug should be chosen , depending on the importance of the drug to the patient .
If the interacting drug cannot be avoided , monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions .
7 . 2 Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant use of scopolamine with other drugs having anticholinergic properties may increase the risk of CNS adverse reactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] , intestinal obstruction and / or urinary retention .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with Transderm Scōp in patients receiving anticholinergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Drugs Absorbed in the Stomach Transderm Scōp , as an anticholinergic , may delay gastric and upper gastrointestinal motility and , therefore , the rate of absorption of other orally administered drugs .
Monitor patients for modified therapeutic effect of concomitant orally administered drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
7 . 4 Interaction with Gastric Secretion Test Scopolamine will interfere with the gastric secretion test .
Discontinue Transderm Scōp 10 days prior to testing .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Geriatric Patients : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment due to increased risk of CNS adverse reactions .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 5 ) • • Renal or Hepatic Impairment : Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment due to increased risk of CNS adverse reactions .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from observational studies and postmarketing reports with scopolamine use in pregnant women have not identified a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse fetal outcomes .
Avoid use of Transderm Scōp in pregnant women with severe preeclampsia because eclamptic seizures have been reported after exposure to scopolamine ( see Data ) .
In animal studies , there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects with intravenous administration of scopolamine hydrobromide revealed in rats .
Embryotoxicity was observed in rabbits at intravenous doses producing plasma levels approximately 100 times the levels achieved in humans using a transdermal system .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Based on data from one prospective study of Transderm Scōp in cesarean delivery , the rate of newborn adverse events in both the Transderm Scōp and placebo groups were the same .
The rates were 10 . 5 % ( 12 events in 114 newborns ) in both treatment groups .
None of these events were considered life threatening or drug related .
Jaundice was the only adverse event occurring more frequently with Transderm Scōp than placebo : 9 events ( 7 . 9 % ) versus 2 events ( 1 . 8 % ) ( p = 0 . 031 ) .
Jaundice , a common occurrence in newborns , resolved with ultraviolet light and did not prolong the hospital stay .
In the same study among women undergoing cesarean section treated with Transderm Scōp in conjunction with epidural anesthesia and opiate analgesia , no evidence of CNS depression was found in newborns .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Transderm Scōp use during pregnancy .
Transderm Scōp should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and the mother .
Scopolamine does cross the placenta .
Eclamptic Seizures In published case reports , two pregnant patients with severe preeclampsia were administered intravenous and intramuscular scopolamine , respectively , and developed eclamptic seizures soon after scopolamine administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Animal Data In animal reproduction studies , when pregnant rats and rabbits received scopolamine hydrobromide by daily intravenous injection , no adverse effects were observed in rats .
An embryotoxic effect was observed in rabbits at doses producing plasma levels approximately 100 times the levels achieved in humans using a transdermal system .
Scopolamine administered parenterally to rats and rabbits at doses higher than the dose delivered by Transderm Scōp did not affect uterine contractions or increase the duration of labor .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Scopolamine is present in human milk .
There are no available data on the effects of scopolamine on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Because there have been no consistent reports of adverse events in breastfed infants over decades of use , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Transderm Scōp and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Transderm Scōp or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Pediatric patients are particularly susceptible to the adverse reactions of scopolamine ; including mydriasis , hallucinations , amblyopia and drug withdrawal syndrome .
Neurologic and psychiatric adverse reactions , such as hallucinations , amblyopia and mydriasis have also been reported .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Transderm Scōp did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine if they respond differently from younger subjects .
In other clinical experience , elderly patients had an increased risk of neurologic and psychiatric adverse reactions , such as hallucinations , confusion , dizziness and drug withdrawal syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Consider more frequent monitoring for CNS adverse reactions during treatment with Transderm Scōp in elderly patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal or Hepatic Impairment Transderm Scōp has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Consider more frequent monitoring during treatment with Transderm Scōp in patients with renal or hepatic impairment because of the increased risk of CNS adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Transderm Scōp contains scopolamine , which is not a controlled substance .
9 . 3 Dependence Termination of Transderm Scōp , usually after several days of use , may result in withdrawal symptoms such as disturbances of equilibrium , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , sweating , headache , mental confusion , muscle weakness , bradycardia and hypotension .
These withdrawal symptoms indicate that scopolamine , like other anticholinergic drugs , may produce physical dependence .
The onset of these symptoms , generally 24 hours or more after the transdermal system has been removed , can be severe and may require medical intervention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity include : lethargy , somnolence , coma , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , convulsion , visual disturbance , dry flushed skin , dry mouth , decreased bowel sounds , urinary retention , tachycardia , hypertension , and supraventricular arrhythmias .
These symptoms can be severe and may require medical intervention .
In cases of toxicity remove the Transderm Scōp transdermal system .
Serious symptomatic cases of overdosage involving multiple transdermal system applications and / or ingestion may be managed by initially ensuring the patient has an adequate airway and supporting respiration and circulation .
This should be rapidly followed by removal of all transdermal systems from the skin and the mouth .
If there is evidence of transdermal system ingestion , endoscopic removal of swallowed transdermal systems , or administration of activated charcoal should be considered , as indicated by the clinical situation .
In any case where there is serious overdosage or signs of evolving acute toxicity , continuous monitoring of vital signs and ECG , establishment of intravenous access , and administration of oxygen are all recommended .
The signs and symptoms of overdose / toxicity due to scopolamine should be carefully distinguished from the occasionally observed syndrome of withdrawal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Although mental confusion and dizziness may be observed with both acute toxicity and withdrawal , other characteristic findings differ : tachyarrhythmias , dry skin , and decreased bowel sounds suggest anticholinergic toxicity , while bradycardia , headache , nausea and abdominal cramps , and sweating suggest post - removal withdrawal .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Transderm Scōp ( scopolamine transdermal system ) is designed for continuous release of scopolamine following application to an area of intact skin on the head , behind the ear .
Each system contains 1 . 5 mg of scopolamine base .
Scopolamine is ( 9 - methyl - 3 - oxa - 9 - azatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . 02 , 4 ] nonan - 7 - yl ) 3 - hydroxy - 2 - phenylpropanoate .
The empirical formula is C17H21NO4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Scopolamine has a molecular weight of 303 . 35 and a pKa of 7 . 55 - 7 . 81 .
The Transderm Scōp transdermal system is a circular , 0 . 2 mm thick , 2 . 5 cm2 film with four layers .
Proceeding from the visible surface towards the surface attached to the skin , these layers are : ( 1 ) a backing membrane of tan - colored , aluminized , polyester film ; ( 2 ) a drug layer of scopolamine , light mineral oil , and polyisobutylene ; ( 3 ) a microporous polypropylene membrane that controls the rate of delivery of scopolamine from the system to the skin surface ; and ( 4 ) a contact layer formulation of mineral oil , polyisobutylene , and scopolamine .
A release liner of siliconized polyester , which covers the adhesive layer , is removed before the system is used .
Cross section of the system : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Scopolamine , a belladonna alkaloid , is an anticholinergic .
Scopolamine acts : i ) as a competitive inhibitor at postganglionic muscarinic receptor sites of the parasympathetic nervous system , and ii ) on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
It has been suggested that scopolamine acts in the central nervous system ( CNS ) by blocking cholinergic transmission from the vestibular nuclei to higher centers in the CNS and from the reticular formation to the vomiting center .
Scopolamine can inhibit the secretion of saliva and sweat , decrease gastrointestinal secretions and motility , cause drowsiness , dilate the pupils , increase heart rate , and depress motor function .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The system is formulated to deliver approximately 1 mg of scopolamine to the systemic circulation over 3 days .
Absorption Following application to the skin behind the ear , circulating plasma concentrations are detected within 4 hours with peak concentrations being obtained , on average , within 24 hours .
The average plasma concentration produced is 87 pg / mL ( 0 . 28 nM ) for free scopolamine and 354 pg / mL for total scopolamine ( free + conjugates ) .
Following removal of the used transdermal system , there is some degree of continued systemic absorption of scopolamine bound in the skin layers .
Distribution The distribution of scopolamine is not well characterized .
It crosses the placenta and the blood brain barrier and may be reversibly bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism and Excretion Scopolamine is metabolized and conjugated with less than 5 % of the total dose appearing unchanged in the urine .
The enzymes responsible for metabolizing scopolamine are unknown .
The exact elimination pattern of scopolamine has not been determined .
Following transdermal system removal , plasma concentrations of scopolamine decline in a log linear fashion with an observed half - life of 9 . 5 hours .
Less than 10 % of the total dose is excreted in the urine as the parent drug and metabolites over 108 hours .
Drug Interaction Studies An in vitro study using human hepatocytes examined the induction of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 by scopolamine .
Scopolamine did not induce CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes at the concentrations up to 10 nM .
In an in vitro study using human liver microsomes which evaluated the inhibition of CYP1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 and 3A4 , scopolamine did not inhibit these cytochrome P450 isoenzymes at the concentrations up to 1 micromolar .
No in vivo drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of scopolamine .
The mutagenic potential of scopolamine has not been evaluated .
Fertility studies were performed in female rats and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to scopolamine hydrobromide administered by daily subcutaneous injection .
Maternal body weights were reduced in the highest - dose group ( plasma level approximately 500 times the level achieved in humans using a transdermal system ) .
However , fertility studies in male animals were not performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Motion Sickness In 195 adult subjects of different racial origins who participated in clinical efficacy studies at sea or in a controlled motion environment , there was a 75 % reduction in the incidence of motion - induced nausea and vomiting .
Transderm Scōp was applied from 4 to 16 hours prior to the onset of motion in these studies .
14 . 2 Prevention of Post - Operative Nausea and Vomiting In two pivotal clinical efficacy studies in 391 adult female patients undergoing cesarean section or gynecological surgery with anesthesia and opiate analgesia , patients received Transderm Scōp or placebo applied approximately 11 hours before anesthesia / opiate analgesia .
No retching / vomiting during the 24 - hour post - operative period was reported in 66 % of those treated with Transderm Scōp compared to 46 % of those receiving placebo .
When the need for additional antiemetic medication was assessed during the same period , there was no need for medication in 76 % of patients treated with Transderm Scōp as compared to 59 % of placebo - treated patients .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Transderm Scōp ( scopolamine transdermal system ) 1 mg / 3 days is available as the following : Carton of 4 transdermal systems , packaged into individual foil pouches .
NDC 0067 - 4346 - 04 Store at controlled room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Store pouch ( es ) in an upright position .
Do not bend or roll pouch ( es ) .
Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the transdermal system .
Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Administration Instructions Counsel patients on how to apply and remove the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] : • • Only wear one transdermal system at any time .
• • Do not cut the transdermal system .
• • Apply the transdermal system to the skin in the postauricular ( hairless area behind one ear ) area .
• • After the transdermal system is applied on the dry skin behind the ear , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry hands .
• • If the transdermal system becomes displaced , discard the transdermal system , and apply a new transdermal system on the hairless area behind the other ear .
• • Upon removal , fold the used transdermal system in half with the sticky side together , and discard in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others .
Patients with Open - Angle Glaucoma Advise patients with open - angle glaucoma to remove the Transderm Scōp transdermal system immediately and contact their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of acute angle closure glaucoma , including pain and reddening of the eyes , accompanied by dilated pupils , blurred vision and / or seeing halos around lights [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Neuropsychiatric Adverse Reactions • • Advise patients that psychiatric adverse reactions may occur , especially in patients with a past psychiatric history or in those receiving other drugs also associated with psychiatric effects , and to report to their healthcare provider any new or worsening psychiatric symptoms .
• • Advise patients to discontinue Transderm Scōp and contact a healthcare provider immediately if they experience a seizure .
• • Advise patients , especially elderly patients , that cognitive impairment may occur during treatment with Transderm Scōp , especially in those receiving other drugs also associated with CNS effects , and to report to their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment such as hallucinations , confusion or dizziness .
• • Inform patients not to operate motor vehicles or other dangerous machinery or participate in underwater sports until they are reasonably certain that Transderm Scōp does not affect them adversely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility and Urinary Retention Instruct patients to remove the transdermal system if they develop symptoms of intestinal obstruction ( abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting ) or any difficulties in urinating [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms Inform patients that if they remove the Transderm Scōp transdermal system before treatment is complete , withdrawal symptoms may occur and to seek immediate medical care if they develop severe symptoms after removing Transderm Scōp [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Blurred Vision Inform patients that temporary dilation of the pupils and blurred vision may occur if Transderm Scōp comes in contact with the eyes .
Instruct patients to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the transdermal system [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
MRI Skin Burns Instruct patients to remove the Transderm Scōp transdermal system before undergoing an MRI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Manufactured by : ALZA Corporation , Vacaville , CA 95688 for GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
MEDICATION GUIDE Transderm Scōp ( trans - derm skōp ) ( scopolamine transdermal system ) Read this Patient Information before you start using Transderm Scōp and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Transderm Scōp ?
Transderm Scōp is a prescription medicine used for adults to help prevent : • • nausea and vomiting from motion sickness • • nausea and vomiting from anesthesia or taking opioid pain medicines after surgery It is not known if Transderm Scōp is safe or effective in children .
Who should not use Transderm Scōp ?
Do not use Transderm Scōp if you : • • have an eye problem called angle closure glaucoma .
• • are allergic to scopolamine , belladonna alkaloids or any of the ingredients in Transderm Scōp .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of the ingredients in Transderm Scōp .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure .
What should I tell my doctor before using Transderm Scōp ?
Before you use Transderm Scōp , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have glaucoma ( increased pressure in the eye ) .
• • have a history of seizures or psychosis .
• • have problems with your stomach or intestines .
• • have trouble urinating .
• • are scheduled to have a gastric secretion test .
• • have liver or kidney problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Transderm Scōp can harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Transderm Scōp can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use Transderm Scōp .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Transderm Scōp may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how Transderm Scōp works .
Medicines that you take by mouth may not be absorbed well while you use Transderm Scōp .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • a sedative , hypnotic , opioid or anxiolytic ( medicines that make you sleepy ) • • an antidepressant medicine • • an anticholinergic medicine , such as an allergy or cold medicine , a medicine to treat bladder or bowel spasms , certain asthma medicines , or other medicines for motion sickness Ask your doctor if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Transderm Scōp ?
• • See the detailed Instructions for Use for information about how to use Transderm Scōp at the end of this Patient Information leaflet .
• • It is important that you apply Transderm Scōp exactly as your doctor tells you to .
• • Your doctor may change your Transderm Scōp dose .
Do not change your Transderm Scōp dose without talking to your doctor .
• • Wear only one Transderm Scōp at any time .
• • If you use too much Transderm Scōp , call your doctor or Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while using Transderm Scōp ?
• • You should not drink alcohol while using Transderm Scōp .
It can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
• • You should not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how Transderm Scōp affects you .
• • You should not use Transderm Scōp during a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Remove Transderm Scōp before undergoing an MRI .
It can cause your skin to burn .
• • You should be careful if you use Transderm Scōp while you participate in watersports because you may feel lost or confused ( disoriented ) .
• • Limit contact with water while swimming and bathing because Transderm Scōp may fall off .
If Transderm Scōp falls off , throw it away and apply a new one on the hairless area behind your other ear .
What are the possible side effects of Transderm Scōp ?
Transderm Scōp may cause serious side effects , including : • • angle closure glaucoma .
If you have open angle glaucoma and use Transderm Scōp , remove Transderm Scōp and call a doctor right away if you feel pain or discomfort , have blurred vision , or see halos or colored images around lights and reddening of your eyes .
• • worsening of seizures .
Tell your doctor about any worsening of seizures while using Transderm Scōp .
• • an unusual reaction called acute psychosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms : • • confusion • • agitation • • rambling speech • • hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not there ) • • paranoid behaviors and delusions ( false belief in something ) • • worsening of your preeclampsia during pregnancy .
Some pregnant women with severe preeclampsia have had seizures after getting scopolamine by injection in the muscle ( intramuscular ) or injection in the vein ( intravenous ) .
• • difficulty urinating .
• • difficulties in food passing from the stomach to the small intestines , which may cause abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting .
• • withdrawal symptoms after removing Transderm Scōp after using it for several days .
Some people may have certain symptoms such as difficulty with balance , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , stomach cramps , sweating , confusion , muscle weakness , low heart rate or low blood pressure that could start 24 hours or more after removing Transderm Scōp .
Call your doctor right away if your symptoms become severe .
• • temporary increase in the size of your pupil and blurry vision , especially if Transderm Scōp comes in contact with your eyes .
• • skin burns at the site of Transderm Scōp .
This can happen during a medical test called a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Transderm Scōp contains aluminum and should be removed from your skin before you have an MRI .
The most common side effects of using Transderm Scōp include : • • dry mouth • • blurred vision or eye problems • • feeling sleepy or drowsy • • disorientation ( confusion ) • • dizziness • • feeling agitated or irritable • • pharyngitis ( sore throat ) Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Transderm Scōp .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of Transderm Scōp .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use Transderm Scōp for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Transderm Scōp to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Transderm Scōp that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Transderm Scōp ?
Active ingredient : scopolamine Inactive ingredients : light mineral oil , polyisobutylene , polypropylene and aluminized polyester film Manufactured by : ALZA Corporation , Vacaville , CA 95688 for GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2019 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
For more information , go to www . transdermscop . com or call GSK Consumer Healthcare at 1 - 800 - 398 - 5876 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Transderm Scōp ( trans - derm skōp ) ( scopolamine transdermal system ) Read this Instructions for Use before you start using Transderm Scōp and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Information about Transderm Scōp : • • Transderm Scōp is a tan - colored , circle shaped transdermal system ( patch ) with “ Scopolamine 1 mg / 3 days ” printed on it .
• • Wear only one Transderm Scōp at any time .
• • Do not cut Transderm Scōp .
To help prevent nausea and vomiting from motion sickness : • • Apply one Transderm Scōp to your skin on a hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before the activity to prevent nausea and vomiting .
• • If the treatment is needed for longer than 3 days , remove Transderm Scōp from the hairless area behind your ear .
Get a new Transderm Scōp and place it on the hairless area behind your other ear .
To help prevent nausea and vomiting after surgery : • • Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about when to apply Transderm Scōp before your scheduled surgery .
• • Transderm Scōp should be left in place for 24 hours after surgery .
After 24 hours , Transderm Scōp should be removed and thrown away .
How to use Transderm Scōp : Inside the Transderm Scōp package , you will find one Transderm Scōp .
An imprinted , tan backing membrane with a metallic ( silver ) sticky surface is adhered to a clear , disposable release liner ( See Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Select a hairless area of skin behind one of your ears .
Avoid areas on your skin that may have cuts , pain or tenderness .
Wipe the area of your skin with a clean , dry tissue .
• 2 .
Cut along the dashed line on the Transderm Scōp package to open ( See Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Remove the clear plastic backing from the tan - colored round Transderm Scōp ( See Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Do not touch the metallic adhesive ( sticky ) surface on Transderm Scōp with your hands ( See Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 .
Apply the metallic adhesive surface of Transderm Scōp firmly to the dry area of skin behind your ear .
The imprinted , tan - colored side of the transdermal system should be facing up and showing ( See Figure 5 ) .
Wash your hands with soap and water right away after applying Transderm Scōp , so that any medicine from Transderm Scōp that gets on your hands will not get into your eyes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to remove Transderm Scōp : After removing Transderm Scōp , be sure to wash your hands and the area behind your ear thoroughly with soap and water .
Please note that the used Transderm Scōp will still contain some of the active ingredient after use .
To avoid accidental contact or ingestion by children , pets or others , fold the used Transderm Scōp in half with the sticky side together .
Throw away ( dispose of ) Transderm Scōp in the household trash out of the reach of children , pets or others .
How should I store Transderm Scōp ?
• • Store Transderm Scōp at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) until you are ready to use it .
• • Store Transderm Scōp in an upright position .
• • Do not bend or roll Transderm Scōp .
Keep Transderm Scōp and all medicines out of reach of children .
The Medication Guide and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : March 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0067 - 4346 - 04 NSN 6505 - 01 - 456 - 2380 TRANSDERM SCŌP ( scopolamine ) TRANSDERMAL SYSTEM , 1 mg / 3 days Formulated delivery of approximately 1 mg over three days MOTION SICKNESS & POST - OPERATIVE NAUSEA & VOMITING PREVENTION TRANSDERMAL SYSTEMS 4 Transdermal Systems Rx ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
