Forms and Presentation Facial Mask : Tube 75 g Active Ingredients Charcoal Powder , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Panthenol Inactive ingredients Aqua , Alcohol , Polyvinyl Alcohol , Kaolin , Cera Alba ( beeswax ) , Ceteareth - 20 , Glycerin , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Propylene Glycol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Phenoxyethanol , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Ethylhexylglycerin .
Properties Charcoal face Mask is an advanced and powerful formula firms and refreshes the skin by removing dirt , oil , blackheads and dead skin cells that cause pore congestion .
Draws toxins , chemicals , and other micro - particles to the surface of the skin .
Charcoal Face Mask is recommended for acne - prone , combination , normal and oily skin .
Perfume Free , Paraben Free Purpose Facial Mask Indication • Detoxifies the skin .
• Remove dull cells , blackheads and dirt .
• Tighten enlarged pores .
• Control facial skin oil , makes your skin beautiful with its power .
Contraindication Hypersensitivity to any of the components Precautions • Must only be used as directed .
• Discontinue use if irritation ( redness , pain , etc . ) occurs .
If skin irritation occurs , consult your physician if the symptoms persist for more than 48 hr .
• Do not use on damaged skin .
Precaution • Keep out of reach of children Warnings • For external use only .
• Avoid contact with eyes .
Pregnancy Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using any product .
If you want to apply the mask during pregnancy then discuss this with your doctor .
Lactation Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using any product .
If you want to apply the mask during lactation then discuss this with your doctor .
Interactions No interactions between this mask and other drugs or substances are known or suspected Side effects Irritation ( redness , pain , etc . ) can be occurring Dosage and administration 1 .
Clean the face ; open your pores using a warm , moist towel on face for 3 - 5 minutes .
2 .
Gently apply mask on the face using the applicator once water is dry .
Apply generously on nose , chin , forehead and cheeks .
Avoid contact with your eyes , eye - brows and lip around .
3 .
Allow the mask to set on your skin for 20 - 30 minutes , and then peel off the mask starting from the bottom and moving up slowly when it is become dry .
4 .
Rinse face with warm water to remove remaining bits of mask .
5 .
Recommended usage is once a week .
Storage Condition Store below 30 ◦ C Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
