Drug Facts Active Ingredient Lidocaine HCI 4 % Menthol 1 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of pain and / or itching associated with minor burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes andinsect bites or minor skin irritations Warnings for external use only .
Do Not Use • on large areas of the body or on cut , irritated or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor When Using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and • warnings on this carton .
• Warnings • When using this product • Do not use • For external use only .
• on large areas of the body or on cut , irritated or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • if the condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , • discontinue use of this product and consult a doctor .
• do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use or use with a medicated patch • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • avoid contact with eyes • avoid contact with mucous membranes • do not use in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
Stop Use and Ask a Doctor If • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , Swelling , or blistering where the product was applied Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact the Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other Information • store at room temperature • avoid direct sunlight • Do not use if carton is open or if tamper evident foil is breached or missing .
Inactive Ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aloe barbadensis Leaf Juice , Aminomethyl Propanol , Isohexadecane , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Cetearyl Alcohol ( and ) Dicetyl Phosphate ( and ) Ceteth - 10 Phosphate , Glyceryl Stearate , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , SD Alcohol , Steareth - 21 , Water Questions Child - resistant packaging .
Close cap tightly between uses .
Stretton Online Ltd 2160 Union Place Simi Valley CA 93065 United States Medcosa . com info @ medcosa . com + 1 ( 562 ) 337 - 0165 Burn Relief Cream NDC : 81310 - 004 - 27 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
