Drug Facts Active Ingredient Nonoxynol - 9 , ( 4 % ) Purpose Vaginal Contraceptive Use • for the prevention of pregnancy • with condom or alone Warnings For Vaginal Use Only Not for rectal ( anal ) use .
Sexually Transmitted Disease ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV ( AIDS ) or other STDs and may increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected partner .
Do not use if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS .
If you do not know if you or your sex partner is infected , choose another form of birth control Stop use and ask a doctor if you or your partner get burning , itching , a rash , or other irritation of the vagina or penis .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For maximum protection against unwanted pregnancy , follow the enclosed directions exactly .
• Insert one applicatorful into the vagina prior to intercourse ( see complete , illustrated directions on package insert ) .
• Each applicatorful is effective immediately and up to one hour after application .
• An additional applicatorful is required prior to each act of intercourse , regardless of time since last application .
Other Information • When used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
• Use a latex condom without nonoxynol - 9 if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS , multiple sex partners , or other HIV risk factors .
• VCF ® is tested by independent laboratories for determination of sperm inactivating qualities , using the I . P . P . F . agreed protocol • Store at room temperature , 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Avoid exposure to extremes of hot and cold .
Inactive Ingredients purified water , propylene glycol , CMC 7 MF , sorbitol solution , PVP K 30 , simethicone , lactic acid , methyl paraben , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , trisodium EDTA Questions ?
If you have any questions , call our toll - free line at 1 - 800 - 879 - 2393 between 9 : 00 AM and 5 : 00 PM EST , Monday through Friday .
Distributed By : Apothecus Pharmaceutical Corp .
Oyster Bay , NY 11771 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 55 g Applicator Box New !
Compare To CONCEPTROL ® !
VCF ® Vaginal Contraceptive Gel FOR PREVENTION OF PREGNANCY Pre - Filled Applicators • Safe and effective • Hormone free • Easy to use Contains the Spermicide Doctors Recommend Most 10 PRE - FILLED APPLICATORS NET WT .
0 . 09 oz .
( 2 . 55 g ) EACH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
