To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of metronidazole and other antibacterial drugs , metronidazole should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
WARNING Metronidazole has been shown to be carcinogenic in mice and rats ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Unnecessary use of the drug should be avoided .
Its use should be reserved for the conditions described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section below .
DESCRIPTION Metronidazole tablets , USP 250 mg or 500 mg is an oral formulation of the synthetic nitroimidazole antimicrobial , 2 - methyl - 5 - nitro - 1 H - imidazole - 1 - ethanol , which has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metronidazole tablets , USP contain 250 mg or 500 mg of metronidazole , USP .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hydrogenated vegetable oil and silicified microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Absorption Disposition of metronidazole in the body is similar for both oral and intravenous dosage forms .
Following oral administration , metronidazole is well absorbed , with peak plasma concentrations occurring between one and two hours after administration .
Plasma concentrations of metronidazole are proportional to the administered dose .
Oral administration of 250 mg , 500 mg , or 2 , 000 mg produced peak plasma concentrations of 6 mcg / mL , 12 mcg / mL , and 40 mcg / mL , respectively .
Studies reveal no significant bioavailability differences between males and females ; however , because of weight differences , the resulting plasma levels in males are generally lower .
Distribution Metronidazole is the major component appearing in the plasma , with lesser quantities of metabolites also being present .
Less than 20 % of the circulating metronidazole is bound to plasma proteins .
Metronidazole appears in cerebrospinal fluid , saliva , and breast milk in concentrations similar to those found in plasma .
Bactericidal concentrations of metronidazole have also been detected in pus from hepatic abscesses .
Metabolism / Excretion The major route of elimination of metronidazole and its metabolites is via the urine ( 60 % to 80 % of the dose ) , with fecal excretion accounting for 6 % to 15 % of the dose .
The metabolites that appear in the urine result primarily from side - chain oxidation [ 1 - ( ß - hydroxyethyl ) - 2 - hydroxymethyl - 5 - nitroimidazole and 2 - methyl - 5 - nitroimidazole - 1 - yl - acetic acid ] and glucuronide conjugation , with unchanged metronidazole accounting for approximately 20 % of the total .
Both the parent compound and the hydroxyl metabolite possess in vitro antimicrobial activity .
Renal clearance of metronidazole is approximately 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The average elimination half - life of metronidazole in healthy subjects is eight hours .
Renal Impairment Decreased renal function does not alter the single - dose pharmacokinetics of metronidazole .
Subjects with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ; CLCR = 8 . 1 ± 9 . 1 mL / min ) and who received a single intravenous infusion of metronidazole 500 mg had no significant change in metronidazole pharmacokinetics but had 2 - fold higher Cmax of hydroxy - metronidazole and 5 - fold higher Cmax of metronidazole acetate , compared to healthy subjects with normal renal function ( CLCR = 126 ± 16 mL / min ) .
Thus , on account of the potential accumulation of metronidazole metabolites in ESRD patients , monitoring for metronidazole associated adverse events is recommended ( seePRECAUTIONS ) .
Effect of Dialysis Following a single intravenous infusion or oral dose of metronidazole 500 mg , the clearance of metronidazole was investigated in ESRD subjects undergoing hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD ) .
A hemodialysis session lasting for 4 to 8 hours removed 40 % to 65 % of the administered metronidazole dose , depending on the type of dialyzer membrane used and the duration of the dialysis session .
If the administration of metronidazole cannot be separated from the dialysis session , supplementation of metronidazole dose following hemodialysis should be considered ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
A peritoneal dialysis session lasting for 7 . 5 hours removed approximately 10 % of the administered metronidazole dose .
No adjustment in metronidazole dose is needed in ESRD patients undergoing CAPD .
Hepatic Impairment Following a single intravenous infusion of 500 mg metronidazole , the mean AUC24 of metronidazole was higher by 114 % in patients with severe ( Child - Pugh C ) hepatic impairment , and by 54 % and 53 % in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh A ) and moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment , respectively , compared to healthy control subjects .
There were no significant changes in the AUC24 of hydroxyl - metronidazole in these hepatically impaired patients .
A reduction in metronidazole dosage by 50 % is recommended in patients with severe ( Child - Pugh C ) hepatic impairment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be monitored for metronidazole associated adverse events ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Patients Following a single 500 mg oral or IV dose of metronidazole , subjects > 70 years old with no apparent renal or hepatic dysfunction had a 40 % to 80 % higher mean AUC of hydroxy - metronidazole ( active metabolite ) , with no apparent increase in the mean AUC of metronidazole ( parent compound ) , compared to young healthy controls < 40 years old .
In geriatric patients , monitoring for metronidazole associated adverse events is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric Patients In one study , newborn infants appeared to demonstrate diminished capacity to eliminate metronidazole .
The elimination half - life , measured during the first 3 days of life , was inversely related to gestational age .
In infants whose gestational ages were between 28 and 40 weeks , the corresponding elimination half - lives ranged from 109 to 22 . 5 hours .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Metronidazole , a nitroimidazole , exerts antibacterial effects in an anaerobic environment against most obligate anaerobes .
Once metronidazole enters the organism by passive diffusion and activated in the cytoplasm of susceptible anaerobic bacteria , it is reduced ; this process includes intracellular electron transport proteins such as ferredoxin , transfer of an electron to the nitro group of the metronidazole , and formation of a short - lived nitroso free radical .
Because of this alteration of the metronidazole molecule , a concentration gradient is created and maintained which promotes the drug ’ s intracellular transport .
The reduced form of metronidazole and free radicals can interact with DNA leading to inhibition of DNA synthesis and DNA degradation leading to death of the bacteria .
The precise mechanism of action of metronidazole is unclear .
Resistance A potential for development of resistance exists against metronidazole .
Resistance may be due to multiple mechanisms that include decreased uptake of the drug , altered reduction efficiency , overexpression of the efflux pumps , inactivation of the drug , and / or increased DNA damage repair .
Metronidazole does not possess any clinically relevant activity against facultative anaerobes or obligate aerobes .
Antimicrobial Activity Metronidazole has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGEsection .
Gram - positive anaerobes Clostridium species Eubacterium species Peptococcus species Peptostreptococcus species Gram - negative anaerobes Bacteroides fragilis group ( B . fragilis , B . distasonis , B . ovatus , B . thetaiotaomicron , B . vulgatus ) Fusobacterium species Protozoal parasites Entamoeba histolytica Trichomonas vaginalis The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown : Metronidazole exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MIC ’ s ) of 8 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) isolates of the following bacteria ; however , the safety and effectiveness of metronidazole in treating clinical infections due to these bacteria have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - negative anaerobes Bacteroides fragilis group ( B . caccae , B . uniformis ) Prevotella species ( P . bivia , P . buccae , P . disiens ) Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Symptomatic Trichomoniasis .
Metronidazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of T . vaginalis infection in females and males when the presence of the trichomonad has been confirmed by appropriate laboratory procedures ( wet smears and / or cultures ) .
Asymptomatic Trichomoniasis .
Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic T . vaginalis infection in females when the organism is associated with endocervicitis , cervicitis , or cervical erosion .
Since there is evidence that presence of the trichomonad can interfere with accurate assessment of abnormal cytological smears , additional smears should be performed after eradication of the parasite .
Treatment of Asymptomatic Sexual Partners .
T . vaginalis infection is a venereal disease .
Therefore , asymptomatic sexual partners of treated patients should be treated simultaneously if the organism has been found to be present , in order to prevent reinfection of the partner .
The decision as to whether to treat an asymptomatic male partner who has a negative culture or one for whom no culture has been attempted is an individual one .
In making this decision , it should be noted that there is evidence that a woman may become reinfected if her sexual partner is not treated .
Also , since there can be considerable difficulty in isolating the organism from the asymptomatic male carrier , negative smears and cultures cannot be relied upon in this regard .
In any event , the sexual partner should be treated with metronidazole tablets in cases of reinfection .
Amebiasis .
Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis ( amebic dysentery ) and amebic liver abscess .
In amebic liver abscess , metronidazole tablet therapy does not obviate the need for aspiration or drainage of pus .
Anaerobic Bacterial Infections .
Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with metronidazole tablet therapy .
In a mixed aerobic and anaerobic infection , antimicrobials appropriate for the treatment of the aerobic infection should be used in addition to metronidazole tablets .
INTRA - ABDOMINAL INFECTIONS , including peritonitis , intra - abdominal abscess , and liver abscess , caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group ( B . fragilis , B . distasonis , B . ovatus , B . thetaiotaomicron , B . vulgatus ) , Clostridium species , Eubacterium species , Peptococcus species , and Peptostreptococcus species .
SKIN AND SKIN STRUCTURE INFECTIONS caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group , Clostridium species , Peptococcus species , Peptostreptococcus species , and Fusobacterium species .
GYNECOLOGIC INFECTIONS , including endometritis , endomyometritis , tubo - ovarian abscess , and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection , caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group , Clostridium species , Peptococcus species , Peptostreptococcus species , and Fusobacterium species .
BACTERIAL SEPTICEMIA caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group and Clostridium species .
BONE AND JOINT INFECTIONS , ( as adjunctive therapy ) , caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group .
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM ( CNS ) INFECTIONS , including meningitis and brain abscess , caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group .
LOWER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS , including pneumonia , empyema , and lung abscess , caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group .
ENDOCARDITIS caused by Bacteroides species including the B . fragilis group .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of metronidazole and other antibacterial drugs , metronidazole tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Metronidazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives .
In patients with trichomoniasis , metronidazole tablets are contraindicated during the first trimester of pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Psychotic Reaction with Disulfiram Use of oral metronidazole is associated with psychotic reactions in alcoholic patients who were using disulfiram concurrently .
Do not administer metronidazole to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Interaction with Alcohol Use of oral metronidazole is associated with a disulfiram - like reaction to alcohol , including abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing .
Discontinue consumption of alcohol or products containing propylene glycol during and for at least three days after therapy with metronidazole ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cockayne Syndrome Metronidazole Tablets are contraindicated in patients with Cockayne syndrome .
Severe irreversible hepatotoxicity / acute liver failure with fatal outcomes have been reported after initiation of metronidazole in patients with Cockayne syndrome ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy : Cases of encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy ( including optic neuropathy ) have been reported with metronidazole .
Encephalopathy has been reported in association with cerebellar toxicity characterized by ataxia , dizziness , and dysarthria .
CNS lesions seen on MRI have been described in reports of encephalopathy .
CNS symptoms are generally reversible within days to weeks upon discontinuation of metronidazole .
CNS lesions seen on MRI have also been described as reversible .
Peripheral neuropathy , mainly of sensory type has been reported and is characterized by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity .
Convulsive seizures have been reported in patients treated with metronidazole .
Aseptic meningitis : Cases of aseptic meningitis have been reported with metronidazole .
Symptoms can occur within hours of dose administration and generally resolve after metronidazole therapy is discontinued .
The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs and symptoms demands the prompt evaluation of the benefit / risk ratio of the continuation of therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment metabolize metronidazole slowly , with resultant accumulation of metronidazole in the plasma .
For patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) , a reduced dose of metronidazole is recommended .
For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment , no dosage adjustment is needed but these patients should be monitored for metronidazole associated adverse events ( seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Renal Impairment Patients with end - stage renal disease may excrete metronidazole and metabolites slowly in the urine , resulting in significant accumulation of metronidazole metabolites .
Monitoring for metronidazole associated adverse events is recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Fungal Superinfections Known or previously unrecognized candidiasis may present more prominent symptoms during therapy with metronidazole and requires treatment with a candidacidal agent .
Use in Patients with Blood Dyscrasias Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole and should be used with caution in patients with evidence of or history of blood dyscrasia .
A mild leukopenia has been observed during its administration ; however , no persistent hematologic abnormalities attributable to metronidazole have been observed in clinical studies .
Total and differential leukocyte counts are recommended before and after therapy .
Drug - Resistant Bacteria and Parasites Prescribing metronidazole in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial or parasitic infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria and parasites .
Information for Patients Interaction with Alcohol Discontinue consumption of alcoholic beverages or products containing propylene glycol while taking metronidazole and for at least three days afterward because abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing may occur ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Treatment of Bacterial and Parasitic Infections Patients should be counseled that metronidazole should only be used to treat bacterial and parasitic infections .
Metronidazole does not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When metronidazole is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by metronidazole in the future .
Drug interactions Disulfiram Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who are using metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently .
Metronidazole should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Alcoholic Beverages Abdominal cramps , nausea , vomiting , headaches , and flushing may occur if alcoholic beverages or products containing propylene glycol are consumed during or following metronidazole therapy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Warfarin and other Oral Anticoagulants Metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other oral coumarin anticoagulants , resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time .
When metronidazole is prescribed for patients on this type of anticoagulant therapy , prothrombin time and INR should be carefully monitored .
Lithium In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium , short - term metronidazole therapy has been associated with elevation of serum lithium and , in a few cases , signs of lithium toxicity .
Serum lithium and serum creatinine levels should be obtained several days after beginning metronidazole to detect any increase that may precede clinical symptoms of lithium intoxication .
Busulfan Metronidazole has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of busulfan , which can result in an increased risk for serious busulfan toxicity .
Metronidazole should not be administered concomitantly with busulfan unless the benefit outweighs the risk .
If no therapeutic alternatives to metronidazole are available , and concomitant administration with busulfan is medically needed , frequent monitoring of busulfan plasma concentration should be performed and the busulfan dose should be adjusted accordingly .
Drugs that Inhibit CYP450 Enzymes The simultaneous administration of drugs that decrease microsomal liver enzyme activity , such as cimetidine , may prolong the half - life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole .
Drugs that Induce CYP450 Enzymes The simultaneous administration of drugs that induce microsomal liver enzymes , such as phenytoin or phenobarbital , may accelerate the elimination of metronidazole , resulting in reduced plasma levels ; impaired clearance of phenytoin has also been reported .
Drugs that Prolong the QT interval QT prolongation has been reported , particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Metronidazole may interfere with certain types of determinations of serum chemistry values , such as aspartate aminotransferase ( AST , SGOT ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT , SGPT ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , triglycerides , and glucose hexokinase .
Values of zero may be observed .
All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation - reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NAD + ↔ NADH ) .
Interference is due to the similarity in absorbance peaks of NADH ( 340 nm ) and metronidazole ( 322 nm ) at pH 7 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Tumors affecting the liver , lungs , mammary , and lymphatic tissues have been detected in several studies of metronidazole in rats and mice , but not hamsters .
Pulmonary tumors have been observed in all six reported studies in the mouse , including one study in which the animals were dosed on an intermittent schedule ( administration during every fourth week only ) .
Malignant liver tumors were increased in male mice treated at approximately 1 , 500 mg / m2 ( similar to the maximum recommended daily dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Malignant lymphomas and pulmonary neoplasms were also increased with lifetime feeding of the drug to mice .
Mammary and hepatic tumors were increased among female rats administered oral metronidazole compared to concurrent controls .
Two lifetime tumorigenicity studies in hamsters have been performed and reported to be negative .
Metronidazole has shown mutagenic activity in in vitro assay systems including the Ames test .
Studies in mammals in vivo have failed to demonstrate a potential for genetic damage .
Metronidazole failed to produce any adverse effects on fertility or testicular function in male rats at doses up at 400 mg / kg / day ( similar to the maximum recommended clinical dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) for 28 days .
However , rats treated at the same dose for 6 weeks or longer were infertile and showed severe degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium in the testes as well as marked decreases in testicular spermatid counts and epididymal sperm counts .
Fertility was restored in most rats after an eight week , drug - free recovery period .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : There are no adequate and well controlled studies of metronidazole in pregnant women .
There are published data from case - control studies , cohort studies , and 2 meta - analyses that include more than 5 , 000 pregnant women who used metronidazole during pregnancy .
Many studies included first trimester exposures .
One study showed an increased risk of cleft lip , with or without cleft palate , in infants exposed to metronidazole in - utero ; however , these findings were not confirmed .
In addition , more than ten randomized placebo - controlled clinical trials enrolled more than 5 , 000 pregnant women to assess the use of antibiotic treatment ( including metronidazole ) for bacterial vaginosis on the incidence of preterm delivery .
Most studies did not show an increased risk for congenital anomalies or other adverse fetal outcomes following metronidazole exposure during pregnancy .
Three studies conducted to assess the risk of infant cancer following metronidazole exposure during pregnancy did not show an increased risk ; however , the ability of these studies to detect such a signal was limited .
Metronidazole crosses the placental barrier and its effects on the human fetal organogenesis are not known .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , rabbits , and mice at doses similar to the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons .
There was no evidence of harm to the fetus due to metronidazole .
Nursing mothers Metronidazole is present in human milk at concentrations similar to maternal serum levels , and infant serum levels can be close to or comparable to infant therapeutic levels .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for metronidazole in mouse and rat studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Alternatively , a nursing mother may choose to pump and discard human milk for the duration of metronidazole therapy , and for 24 hours after therapy ends and feed her infant stored human milk or formula .
Geriatric use In elderly geriatric patients , monitoring for metronidazole associated adverse events is recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , PRECAUTIONS ) .
Decreased liver function in geriatric patients can result in increased concentrations of metronidazole that may necessitate adjustment of metronidazole dosage ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established , except for the treatment of amebiasis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported during treatment with metronidazole : Central Nervous System : The most serious adverse reactions reported in patients treated with metronidazole have been convulsive seizures , encephalopathy , aseptic meningitis , optic and peripheral neuropathy , the latter characterized mainly by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity . Since persistent peripheral neuropathy has been reported in some patients receiving prolonged administration of metronidazole , patients should be specifically warned about these reactions and should be told to stop the drug and report immediately to their physicians if any neurologic symptoms occur .
In addition , patients have reported headache , syncope , dizziness , vertigo , incoordination , ataxia , confusion , dysarthria , irritability , depression , weakness , and insomnia ( see WARNINGS ) .
Gastrointestinal : The most common adverse reactions reported have been referable to the gastrointestinal tract , particularly nausea , sometimes accompanied by headache , anorexia , and occasionally vomiting ; diarrhea ; epigastric distress ; and abdominal cramping and constipation .
Mouth : A sharp , unpleasant metallic taste is not unusual .
Furry tongue , glossitis , and stomatitis have occurred ; these may be associated with a sudden overgrowth of Candida which may occur during therapy .
Dermatologic : Erythematous rash and pruritus .
Hematopoietic : Reversible neutropenia ( leukopenia ) ; rarely , reversible thrombocytopenia .
Cardiovascular : QT prolongation has been reported , particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval .
Flattening of the T - wave may be seen in electrocardiographic tracings .
Hypersensitivity : Urticaria , erythematous rash , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , flushing , nasal congestion , dryness of the mouth ( or vagina or vulva ) , and fever .
Renal : Dysuria , cystitis , polyuria , incontinence , and a sense of pelvic pressure .
Instances of darkened urine have been reported by approximately one patient in 100 , 000 .
Although the pigment which is probably responsible for this phenomenon has not been positively identified , it is almost certainly a metabolite of metronidazole and seems to have no clinical significance .
Hepatic : Cases of severe irreversible hepatotoxicity / acute liver failure , including cases with fatal outcomes with very rapid onset after initiation of systemic use of metronidazole , have been reported in patients with Cockayne syndrome ( latency from drug start to signs of liver failure as short as 2 days ) ( seeCONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Other : Proliferation of Candida in the vagina , dyspareunia , decrease of libido , proctitis , and fleeting joint pains sometimes resembling “ serum sickness . ”
Rare cases of pancreatitis , which generally abated on withdrawal of the drug , have been reported .
Patients with Crohn ’ s disease are known to have an increased incidence of gastrointestinal and certain extraintestinal cancers .
There have been some reports in the medical literature of breast and colon cancer in Crohn ’ s disease patients who have been treated with metronidazole at high doses for extended periods of time .
A cause and effect relationship has not been established .
Crohn ’ s disease is not an approved indication for metronidazole tablets .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Avet Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 866 - 901 - DRUG ( 3784 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of metronidazole , up to 15 g , have been reported in suicide attempts and accidental overdoses .
Symptoms reported include nausea , vomiting , and ataxia .
Oral metronidazole has been studied as a radiation sensitizer in the treatment of malignant tumors .
Neurotoxic effects , including seizures and peripheral neuropathy , have been reported after 5 to 7 days of doses of 6 to 10 . 4 g every other day .
Treatment of Overdosage : There is no specific antidote for metronidazole overdose ; therefore , management of the patient should consist of symptomatic and supportive therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis : In the Female : One - day treatment − two grams of metronidazole tablets , given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each , given in the same day .
Seven - day course of treatment - 250 mg three times daily for seven consecutive days .
There is some indication from controlled comparative studies that cure rates as determined by vaginal smears and signs and symptoms , may be higher after a seven - day course of treatment than after a one - day treatment regimen .
The dosage regimen should be individualized .
Single - dose treatment can assure compliance , especially if administered under supervision , in those patients who cannot be relied on to continue the seven - day regimen .
A seven - day course of treatment may minimize reinfection by protecting the patient long enough for the sexual contacts to obtain appropriate treatment .
Further , some patients may tolerate one treatment regimen better than the other .
Pregnant patients should not be treated during the first trimester ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
In pregnant patients for whom alternative treatment has been inadequate , the one - day course of therapy should not be used , as it results in higher serum levels which can reach the fetal circulation ( seePRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
When repeat courses of the drug are required , it is recommended that an interval of four to six weeks elapse between courses and that the presence of the trichomonad be reconfirmed by appropriate laboratory measures .
Total and differential leukocyte counts should be made before and after re - treatment .
In the Male : Treatment should be individualized as it is for the female .
Amebiasis Adults : For acute intestinal amebiasis ( acute amebic dysentery ) : 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days .
For amebic liver abscess : 500 mg or 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days .
Pediatric patients : 35 to 50 mg / kg / 24 hours , divided into three doses , orally for 10 days .
Anaerobic Bacterial Infections In the treatment of most serious anaerobic infections , intravenous metronidazole is usually administered initially .
The usual adult oral dosage is 7 . 5 mg / kg every six hours ( approx .
500 mg for a 70 - kg adult ) .
A maximum of 4 g should not be exceeded during a 24 - hour period .
The usual duration of therapy is 7 to 10 days ; however , infections of the bone and joint , lower respiratory tract , and endocardium may require longer treatment .
Dosage Adjustment Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) , the dose of metronidazole tablets should be reduced by 50 % ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYand PRECAUTIONS ) .
Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis : Hemodialysis removes significant amounts of metronidazole and its metabolites from systemic circulation .
The clearance of metronidazole will depend on the type of dialysis membrane used , the duration of the dialysis session , and other factors .
If the administration of metronidazole cannot be separated from the hemodialysis session , supplementation of metronidazole dosage following the hemodialysis session should be considered , depending on the patient ’ s clinical situation ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Metronidazole tablets , USP 250 mg are white to off - white , round shaped tablets debossed with “ MCR 104 ” on one side and plain on other side .
They are supplied as follows : Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets per blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 7156 - 61 Metronidazole tablets USP , 500 mg are white to off - white , oval shaped tablets debossed with “ MCR 105 ” on one side and plain on other side .
They are supplied as follows : Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets per blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 7126 - 61 Storage and Stability : Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) and protect from light .
Distributed by : Avet Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 , USA .
1 - 866 - 901 - DRUG ( 3784 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 USA Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number Revised : 12 / 2021 200192 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Metronidazole Tablets , USP 250 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel Metronidazole Tablets , USP 500 mg 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
