DESCRIPTION Sucralfate , USP is an α - D - glucopyranoside , β - D - fructofuranosyl - , octakis ( hydrogen sulfate ) , aluminum complex .
Tablets for oral administration contain 1 g of sucralfate , USP and the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Therapeutic Category antiulcer FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION ON THIS DRUG , PLEASE VIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S SITE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = c7a43df7 - eb37 - 4273 - 9250 - 87953b1fd270 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The small amounts of the sulfated disaccharide that are absorbed are excreted primarily in the urine .
Although the mechanism of sucralfate ’ s ability to accelerate healing of duodenal ulcers remains to be fully defined , it is known that it exerts its effect through a local , rather than systemic , action .
The following observations also appear pertinent : Studies in human subjects and with animal models of ulcer disease have shown that sucralfate forms an ulcer - adherent complex with proteinaceous exudate at the ulcer site .
In vitro , a sucralfate - albumin film provides a barrier to diffusion of hydrogen ions .
In human subjects , sucralfate given in doses recommended for ulcer therapy inhibits pepsin activity in gastric juice by 32 % .
In vitro , sucralfate adsorbs bile salts .
These observations suggest that sucralfate ’ s antiulcer activity is the result of formation of an ulcer - adherent complex that covers the ulcer site and protects it against further attack by acid , pepsin , and bile salts .
There are approximately 14 to 16 mEq of acid - neutralizing capacity per 1 g dose of sucralfate .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Sucralfate tablets , USP are indicated in : • Short - term treatment ( up to 8 weeks ) of active duodenal ulcer .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
• Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of acute ulcers .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients .
PRECAUTIONS The physician should read the PRECAUTIONS section when considering the use of this drug in pregnant or pediatric patients , or patients of childbearing potential .
Duodenal ulcer is a chronic , recurrent disease .
While short - term treatment with sucralfate can result in complete healing of the ulcer , a successful course of treatment with sucralfate should not be expected to alter the post healing frequency or severity of duodenal ulceration .
Isolated reports of sucralfate tablet aspiration with accompanying respiratory complications have been received .
Therefore , sucralfate tablets should be used with caution by patients who have known conditions that may impair swallowing , such as recent or prolonged intubation , tracheostomy , prior history of aspiration , dysphagia , or any other conditions that may alter gag and cough reflexes , or diminish oropharyngeal coordination or motility .
Special Populations Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients When sucralfate is administered orally , small amounts of aluminum are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Concomitant use of sucralfate with other products that contain aluminum , such as aluminum - containing antacids , may increase the total body burden of aluminum .
Patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended doses of sucralfate and aluminum - containing products adequately excrete aluminum in the urine .
Patients with chronic renal failure or those receiving dialysis have impaired excretion of absorbed aluminum .
In addition , aluminum does not cross dialysis membranes because it is bound to albumin and transferrin plasma proteins .
Aluminum accumulation and toxicity ( aluminum osteodystrophy , osteomalacia , encephalopathy ) have been described in patients with renal impairment .
Sucralfate should be used with caution in patients with chronic renal failure .
Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption ( bioavailability ) of single doses of the following : cimetidine , digoxin , fluoroquinolone antibiotics , ketoconazole , l - thyroxine , phenytoin , quinidine , ranitidine , tetracycline , and theophylline .
Subtherapeutic prothrombin times with concomitant warfarin and sucralfate therapy have been reported in spontaneous and published case reports .
However , two clinical studies have demonstrated no change in either serum warfarin concentration or prothrombin time with the addition of sucralfate to chronic warfarin therapy .
The mechanism of these interactions appears to be nonsystemic in nature , presumably resulting from sucralfate binding to the concomitant agent in the gastrointestinal tract .
In all case studies to date ( cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , norfloxacin , ofloxacin , and ranitidine ) , dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction .
Because of the potential of sucralfate to alter the absorption of some drugs , sucralfate should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical .
In these cases , patients should be monitored appropriately .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic oral toxicity studies of 24 months ’ duration were conducted in mice and rats at doses up to 1 g / kg ( 12 times the human dose ) .
There was no evidence of drug - related tumorigenicity .
A reproduction study in rats at doses up to 38 times the human dose did not reveal any indication of fertility impairment .
Mutagenicity studies were not conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category B Teratogenicity studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 50 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to sucralfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sucralfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of sucralfate tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , SpecialPopulations , Chronic Renal Failureand Dialysis Patients ) .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to sucralfate in clinical trials were minor and only rarely led to discontinuation of the drug .
In studies involving over 2700 patients treated with sucralfate tablets , adverse effects were reported in 129 ( 4 . 7 % ) .
Constipation was the most frequent complaint ( 2 % ) .
Other adverse effects reported in less than 0 . 5 % of the patients are listed below by body system : Gastrointestinal diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , gastric discomfort , indigestion , flatulence , dry mouth Dermatological pruritus , rash Nervous System dizziness , insomnia , sleepiness , vertigo Other back pain , headache Postmarketing cases of hypersensitivity have been reported with the use of sucralfate tablets , including dyspnea , lip swelling , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Cases of anaphylactic reactions , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , edema of the mouth , pharyngeal edema , respiratory tract edema and swelling of the face have been reported with an unknown oral formulation of sucralfate .
Bezoars have been reported in patients treated with sucralfate .
The majority of patients had underlying medical conditions that may predispose to bezoar formation ( such as delayed gastric emptying ) or were receiving concomitant enteral tube feedings .
Inadvertent injection of insoluble sucralfate and its insoluble excipients has led to fatal complications , including pulmonary and cerebral emboli .
Sucralfate is not intended for intravenous administration .
OVERDOSAGE Due to limited experience in humans with overdosage of sucralfate , no specific treatment recommendations can be given .
Acute oral toxicity studies in animals , however , using doses up to 12 g / kg body weight , could not find a lethal dose .
Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Risks associated with acute overdosage should , therefore , be minimal .
In rare reports describing sucralfate overdose , most patients remained asymptomatic .
Those few reports where adverse events were described included symptoms of dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 g four times per day on an empty stomach .
Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one - half hour before or after sucralfate .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
Maintenance Therapy The recommended adult oral dosage is 1 g twice a day .
Elderly In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to TEVA USA , PHARMACOVIGILANCE at tel : 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 , x6351 or drug . safety @ tevapharm . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 51655 - 031 - 52 MFG : 0093 - 2210 - 05 Sucralfate 1 GM 30 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains 1 gram sucralfate , USP Dosage : See package insert Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Store in this light - resistant container .
Keep out of the reach fo children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafey / ucm085729 Mfg . by Pliva Hrvatska , Zagreb Croatia Distributed by Teva Pharmaceuticals , Sellersville , PA 18960 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
