Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 20 mL ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Uses • • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • • temporarily relieves : • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • • the intensity of coughing • • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep • • nasal congestion due to a cold Warnings Do not use • • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occur • • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • • cough comes back , or occurs with rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • • measure only with dosing cup provided • • do not use dosing cup with other products • • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • • mL = milliliter • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours .
• • children under 12 years of age : Do not use .
Other information • • each 20 mL contains : sodium 8 mg • • low sodium • • store at room temperature • • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , flavors , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , propyl gallate , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 41250 - 446 - 06 Compare to Mucinex ® Fast - Max ® Maximum Strength Severe Congestion & Cough Active Ingredients * Maximum Strength Severe Congestion & Cough Dextromethorphan HBr - Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin - Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl - Nasal Decongestant • • Control Cough • • Relieves Nasal and Chest Congestion • • Thins & loosens mucus For Ages 12 + 6 FL OZ ( 180 mL ) Tamper evident : do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by RB Health ( US ) LLC , owner of the registered trademark Mucinex ® and Fast - Max ® DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
