Rx only WARNING Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels .
Facilities for prompt and accurate serum lithium determinations should be available before initiating therapy ( see ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DESCRIPTION Each tablet for oral administration contains : Lithium Carbonate . . . . . . . . . . 300 mg Each capsule for oral administration contains : Lithium Carbonate . . . . . . . . . . 150 mg , 300 mg or 600 mg Each 5 mL of solution for oral administration contains : Lithium ion ( Li + ) . . . . . . . . . . 8 mEq ( equivalent to amount of lithium in 300 mg of lithium carbonate ) , alcohol 0 . 3 % v / v .
Inactive Ingredients The tablets contain calcium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , and sodium starch glycolate .
The capsules contain FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , talc , titanium dioxide , and the imprinting ink contains FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , FD & C Red No . 40 , iron oxide , polyvinly pyrrolidone , shellac .
The solution contains citric acid , raspberry blend , sodium benzoate , sorbitol and water .
Lithium Oral Solution is a palatable oral dosage form of lithium ion .
It is prepared in solution from lithium hydroxide and citric acid in a ratio approximately di - lithium citrate .
Lithium is an element of the alkali - metal group with atomic number 3 , atomic weight 6 . 94 , and an emission line at 671 nm on the flame photometer .
The empirical formula for Lithium Citrate is C H Li O ; molecular weight 209 . 92 .
Lithium acts as an antimanic .
6537 Lithium Carbonate is a white , light , alkaline powder with molecular formula Li CO and molecular weight 73 . 89 .
23 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Preclinical studies have shown that lithium alters sodium transport in nerve and muscle cells and effects a shift toward intraneuronal metabolism of catecholamines , but the specific biochemical mechanism of lithium action in mania is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium is indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of Bipolar Disorder .
Bipolar Disorder , Manic ( DSM - III ) is equivalent to Manic Depressive illness , Manic , in the older DSM - II terminology .
Lithium is also indicated as a maintenance treatment for individuals with a diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder .
Maintenance therapy reduces the frequency of manic episodes and diminishes the intensity of those episodes which may occur .
Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech , motor hyperactivity , reduced need for sleep , flight of ideas , grandiosity , elation , poor judgment , aggressiveness , and possibly hostility .
When given to a patient experiencing a manic episode , lithium may produce a normalization of symptomatology within 1 to 3 weeks .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lithium should generally not be given to patients with significant renal or cardiovascular disease , severe debilitation or dehydration , or sodium depletion , and to patients receiving diuretics , since the risk of lithium toxicity is very high in such patients .
If the psychiatric indication is life - threatening , and if such a patient fails to respond to other measures , lithium treatment may be undertaken with extreme caution , including daily serum lithium determinations and adjustment to the usually low doses ordinarily tolerated by these individuals .
In such instances , hospitalization is a necessity .
WARNINGS Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels ( see ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Unmasking of Brugada Syndrome There have been postmarketing reports of a possible association between treatment with lithium and the unmasking of Brugada Syndrome .
Brugada Syndrome is a disorder characterized by abnormal electrocardiographic ( ECG ) findings and a risk of sudden death .
Lithium should generally be avoided in patients with Brugada Syndrome or those suspected of having Brugada Syndrome .
Consultation with a cardiologist is recommended if : ( 1 ) treatment with lithium is under consideration for patients suspected of having Brugada Syndrome or patients who have risk factors for Brugada Syndrome , e . g . , unexplained syncope , a family history of Brugada Syndrome , or a family history of sudden unexplained death before the age of 45 years , ( 2 ) patients who develop unexplained syncope or palpitations after starting lithium therapy .
Pregnancy Lithium may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There have been reports of lithium having adverse effects on nidations in rats , embryo viability in mice , and metabolism in - vitro of rat testis and human spermatozoa have been attributed to lithium , as have teratogenicity in submammalian species and cleft palates in mice .
Studies in rats , rabbits and monkeys have shown no evidence of lithium - induced teratology .
Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies , especially Ebstein ’ s anomaly .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking lithium , she should be apprised of the potential risk to the fetus .
If possible , lithium should be withdrawn for at least the first trimester unless it is determined that this would seriously endanger the mother .
Lithium - Induced Renal Effects Chronic lithium therapy may be associated with diminution of renal concentrating ability , occasionally presenting as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , with polyuria and polydipsia .
Such patients should be carefully managed to avoid dehydration with resulting lithium retention and toxicity .
This condition is usually reversible when lithium is discontinued .
Morphologic changes with glomerular and interstitial fibrosis and nephron - atrophy have been reported in patients on chronic lithium therapy .
Morphologic changes have also been seen in bipolar patients never exposed to lithium .
The relationship between renal functional and morphologic changes and their association with lithium therapy has not been established .
When kidney function is assessed , for baseline data prior to starting lithium therapy or thereafter , routine urinalysis and other tests may be used to evaluate tubular function ( e . g . , urine specific gravity or osmolality following a period of water deprivation , or 24 - hour urine volume ) and glomerular function ( e . g . , serum creatinine or creatinine clearance ) .
During lithium therapy , progressive or sudden changes in renal function , even within the normal range , indicate the need for reevaluation of treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General The ability to tolerate lithium is greater during the acute manic phase and decreases when manic symptoms subside ( see ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The distribution space of lithium approximates that of total body water .
Lithium is primarily excreted in urine with insignificant excretion in feces .
Renal excretion of lithium is proportional to its plasma concentration .
The half - life of elimination of lithium is approximately 24 hours .
Lithium decreases sodium reabsorption by the renal tubules which could lead to sodium depletion .
Therefore , it is essential for the patient to maintain a normal diet , including salt , and an adequate fluid intake ( 2500 - 3000 mL ) at least during the initial stabilization period .
Decreased tolerance to lithium has been reported to ensue from protracted sweating or diarrhea and , if such occur , supplemental fluid and salt should be administered .
In addition to sweating and diarrhea , concomitant infection with elevated temperatures may also necessitate a temporary reduction or cessation of medication .
Previously existing underlying thyroid disorders do not necessarily constitute a contraindication to lithium treatment ; where hypothyroidism exists , careful monitoring of thyroid function during lithium stabilization and maintenance allows for correction of changing thyroid parameters , if any .
Where hypothyroidism occurs during lithium stabilization and maintenance , supplemental thyroid treatment may be used .
Information for the Patients A condition known as Brugada Syndrome may pre - exist and be unmasked by lithium therapy .
Brugada Syndrome is a heart disorder characterized by abnormal electrocardiographic ( ECG ) findings and risk of sudden death .
Patients should be advised to seek immediate emergency assistance if they experience fainting , lightheadedness , abnormal heart beats , or shortness of breath .
Outpatients and their families should be warned that the patient must discontinue lithium therapy and contact his physician if such clinical signs of lithium toxicity as diarrhea , vomiting , tremor , mild ataxia , drowsiness , or muscular weakness occur .
Lithium may impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Caution patients about activities requiring alertness ( e . g . , operating vehicles or machinery ) .
Drug Interactions Combined Use of Haloperidol and Lithium .
An encephalopathic syndrome ( characterized by weakness , lethargy , fever , tremulousness and confusion , extrapyramidal symptoms , leucocytosis , elevated serum enzymes , BUN and FBS ) followed by irreversible brain damage has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus haloperidol .
A causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and haloperidol has not been established ; however , patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurological toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear .
The possibility of similar adverse interactions with other antipsychotic medication exists .
Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , neuromuscular blocking agents should be given with caution to patients receiving lithium .
Caution should be used when lithium and diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors are used concomitantly because sodium loss may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity .
When such combinations are used , the lithium dosage may need to be decreased , and more frequent monitoring of lithium plasma levels is recommended .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDS ) Lithium levels should be closely monitored when patients initiate or discontinue NSAID use .
In some cases , lithium toxicity has resulted from interactions between an NSAID and lithium .
Indomethacin and piroxicam have been reported to increase significantly steady - state plasma lithium concentrations .
There is also evidence that other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , including the selective cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors , have the same effect .
In a study conducted in healthy subjects , mean steady - state lithium plasma levels increased approximately 17 % in subjects receiving lithium 450 mg BID with celecoxib 200 mg BID as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone .
Pregnancy , Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D See section .
WARNINGS Nursing Mothers Lithium is excreted in human milk .
Nursing should not be undertaken during lithium therapy except in rare and unusual circumstances where , in the view of the physician , the potential benefits to the mother outweigh possible hazards to the child .
Usage in Children Since information regarding the safety and effectiveness of lithium in children under 12 years of age is not available , its use in such patients is not recommended at this time .
There has been a report of a transient syndrome of acute dystonia and hyperreflexia occurring in a 15 kg child who ingested 300 mg of lithium carbonate .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Lithium Toxicity The likelihood of toxicity increases with increasing serum lithium levels .
Serum lithium levels greater than 1 . 5 mEq / l carry a greater risk than lower levels .
However , patients sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum levels below 1 . 5 mEq / l .
Diarrhea , vomiting , drowsiness , muscular weakness and lack of coordination may be early signs of lithium toxicity , and can occur at lithium levels below 2 . 0 mEq / l .
At higher levels , giddiness , ataxia , blurred vision , tinnitus and a large output of dilute urine may be seen .
Serum lithium levels above 3 . 0 mEq / l may produce a complex clinical picture involving multiple organs and organ systems .
Serum lithium levels should not be permitted to exceed 2 . 0 mEq / l during the acute treatment phase .
Fine hand tremor , polyuria and mild thirst may occur during initial therapy for the acute manic phase , and may persist throughout treatment .
Transient and mild nausea and general discomfort may also appear during the first few days of lithium administration .
These side effects are an inconvenience rather than a disabling condition , and usually subside with continued treatment or a temporary reduction or cessation of dosage .
If persistent , a cessation of dosage is indicated .
The following adverse reactions have been reported and do not appear to be directly related to serum lithium levels .
: Tremor , muscle hyperirritability ( fasciculations , twitching , clonic movements of whole limbs ) , ataxia , choreo - athetotic movements , hyperactive deep tendon reflexes .
Neuromuscular : Blackout spells , epileptiform seizures , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , incontinence of urine or feces , somnolence , psychomotor retardation , restlessness , confusion , stupor , coma , acute dystonia , downbeat nystagmus .
Central Nervous System : Cardiac arrhythmia , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , sinus node dysfunction with severe bradycardia ( which may result in syncope ) , unmasking of Brugada Syndrome ( See and ) .
CardiovascularWARNINGS : Unmasking of Brugada SyndromePRECAUTIONS : Information for the Patients : Cases of pseudotumor cerebri ( increased intracranial pressure and papilledema ) have been reported with lithium use .
If undetected , this condition may result in enlargement of the blind spot , constriction of visual fields and eventual blindness due to optic atrophy .
Lithium should be discontinued , if clinically possible , if this syndrome occurs .
Neurological : Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea .
Gastrointestinal : Albuminuria , oliguria , polyuria , glycosuria .
Genitourinary : Drying and thinning of hair , anesthesia of skin , chronic folliculitis , xerosis cutis , alopecia and exacerbation of psoriasis .
Dermatologic : Blurred vision , dry mouth .
Autonomic Nervous System : Euthyroid goiter and / or hypothyroidism ( including myxedema ) accompanied by lower T3 and T4 .
Iodine 131 uptake may be elevated .
( See ) .
Paradoxically , rare cases of hyperthyroidism have been reported .
Thyroid AbnormalitiesPRECAUTIONS : Diffuse slowing , widening of frequency spectrum , potentiation and disorganization of background rhythm .
EEG Changes : Reversible flattening , isoelectricity or inversion of T - waves .
EKG Changes : Fatigue , lethargy , transient scotomata , dehydration , weight loss , tendency to sleep .
Miscellaneous : Transient electroencephalographic and electrocardiographic changes , leucocytosis , headache , diffuse non - toxic goiter with or without hypothyroidism , transient hyperglycemia , generalized pruritus with or without rash , cutaneous ulcers , albuminuria , worsening of organic brain syndromes , excessive weight gain , edematous swelling of ankles or wrists , and thirst or polyuria , sometimes resembling diabetes insipidus , and metallic taste .
Miscellaneous Reactions Unrelated to Dosage are A single report has been received of the development of painful discoloration of fingers and toes and coldness of the extremities within one day of the starting of treatment of lithium .
The mechanism through which these symptoms ( resembling Raynaud ’ s Syndrome ) developed is not known .
Recovery followed discontinuance .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic levels for lithium are close to the therapeutic levels .
It is therefore important that patients and their families be cautioned to watch for early symptoms and to discontinue the drug and inform the physician should they occur .
Toxic symptoms are listed in detail under .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Treatment No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known .
Early symptoms of lithium toxicity can usually be treated by reduction of cessation of dosage of the drug and resumption of the treatment at a lower dose after 24 to 48 hours .
In severe cases of lithium poisoning , the first and foremost goal of treatment consists of elimination of this ion from the patient .
Treatment is essentially the same as that used in barbiturate poisoning : 1 ) gastric lavage , 2 ) correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance and 3 ) regulation of kidney functioning .
Urea , mannitol , and aminophylline all produce significant increases in lithium excretion .
Hemodialysis is an effective and rapid means of removing the ion from the severely toxic patient .
Infection prophylaxis , regular chest X - rays , and preservation of adequate respiration are essential .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Mania Optimal patient response to Lithium Carbonate usually can be established and maintained with 600 mg t . i . d . Optimal patient response to Lithium Oral Solution usually can be established and maintained with 10 mL ( 2 full teaspoons ) ( 16 mEq of lithium ) t . i . d .
Such doses will normally produce an effective serum lithium level ranging between 1 . 0 and 1 . 5 mEq / l .
Dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
Regular monitoring of the patient ’ s clinical state and of serum lithium levels is necessary .
Serum levels should be determined twice per week during the acute phase , and until the serum level and clinical condition of the patient have been stabilized .
Long - Term Control The desirable serum lithium levels are 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mEq / l .
Dosage will vary from one individual to another , but usually 300 mg of Lithium Carbonate t . i . d . or q . i . d . , or 5 mL ( 1 full teaspoon ) ( 8 mEq of Lithium ) of Lithium Oral Solution t . i . d . or q . i . d . will maintain this level .
Serum lithium levels in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every two months .
Patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum levels of 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 mEq / l .
Elderly patients often respond to reduced dosage , and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum levels ordinarily tolerated by other patients .
N . B . Blood samples for serum lithium determination should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable ( i . e . , 8 - 12 hours after the previous dose ) .
Total reliance must not be placed on serum levels alone .
Accurate patient evaluation requires both clinical and laboratory analysis .
HOW SUPPLIED Lithium Carbonate Tablets USP 300 mg white , scored tablets ( Identified 54 452 ) NDC 0054 - 8528 - 25 : Unit dose , 10 tablets per strip , 10 strips per shelf pack , 10 shelf packs per shipper .
( For Institutional Use Only ) .
NDC 0054 - 4527 - 25 : Bottles of 100 tablets .
NDC 0054 - 4527 - 31 : Bottles of 1000 tablets .
Lithium Carbonate Capsules USP 150 mg white opaque colored capsules ( size 4 ) ( Identified 54 213 ) .
NDC 0054 - 8526 - 25 : Unit dose , 10 capsules per strip , 10 strips per shelf pack , 10 shelf packs per shipper .
( For Institutional Use Only ) .
NDC 0054 - 2526 - 25 : Bottles of 100 capsules .
300 mg flesh - colored capsules ( size 2 ) ( Identified 54 463 ) .
NDC 0054 - 8527 - 25 : Unit dose , 10 capsules per strip , 10 strips per shelf pack , 10 shelf packs per shipper .
( For Institutional Use Only ) .
NDC 0054 - 2527 - 25 : Bottles of 100 capsules .
NDC 0054 - 2527 - 31 : Bottles of 1000 capsules .
600 mg white opaque / flesh colored capsules ( size 0 ) ( Identified 54 702 ) .
NDC 0054 - 8531 - 25 : Unit dose , 10 capsules per strip , 10 strips per shelf pack , 10 shelf packs per shipper .
( For Institutional Use Only ) .
NDC 0054 - 2531 - 25 : Bottles of 100 capsules .
Store and Dispense : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP / NF .
Lithium Oral Solution USP , 8 mEq per 5 mL .
NDC 0054 - 8529 - 04 : Unit dose Patient Cup ™ filled to deliver 5 mL , ten 5 mL Patient Cup ™ per shelf pack , ten shelf packs per shipper .
( For Institutional Use Only ) .
NDC 0054 - 3527 - 63 : Bottles of 500 mL .
Store and Dispense : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP / NF .
4055500 / / 08 Revised October 2011 © RLI , 2011 Package Label - Lithium Carbonate Tablets USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
