Active Ingredients Sodium chlorite 4 . 6 % Purpose Disinfecting Agent Uses ■ remove 99 . 9 % of viruses , bacteria & fungi ■ Deodorizes the immediate area round it Warning For external use only ■ If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
When using this product ■ if following abnormal symptoms persist , discontinue use Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds ■ Do not use the product for a long time in the same area as swelling , inflammation or sickness may occur due to absorption through the skin .
It is not recommended to use this one area that have been medically treated with a cast or bandage .
■ Do not use in combination with soap or antibacterial cleansing agents .
■ Stop immediately and consult a doctor if you experience 1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms such as erythema , itching and dermatitis .
2 ) Skin Irritation 3 ) Following Instructions when using medication ( 1 ) For external use only ( Do not use internally ) ( 2 ) Avoid getting into the eyes ( if contact occurs , wash well with clean water ) ■ Be careful not to inhale or use excessively for a long time ( ingesting ethanol repeatedly causes irritation to mucous membranes and headaches or other symptoms may appear .
When used repeatedly in the same area , skin irritation may occur .
■ Do not use the product for a long time in the same area as swelling , inflammation or sickness may occur due to absorption through the skin .
It is not recommended to use this one area that have been medically treated with a cast or bandage .
• in children less than 2 months of age Directions ■ tap lightly downward , gently bend the dot of ampoule ■ content turn yellow , to activate and emit through the body surface ■ content turn white , to be discarded in regular trash Other information - read the directions and warnings before use - avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 degree C ( 104 degree F ) Inactive Ingredients Water , Citric acid Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
