1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Multrys is indicated in neonatal and pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Multrys is a combination of trace elements ( zinc sulfate , cupric sulfate , manganese sulfate , and selenious acid ) indicated in neonatal and pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single - dose vial , for admixture use only .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration and general dosing considerations .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) Recommended Dosage • Each mL of Multrys provides zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg .
( 2 . 5 ) • Multrys is recommended only for pediatric patients who require supplementation with all four of the individual trace elements ( i . e . , zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium ) to meet daily requirements .
( 2 . 5 ) • Pediatric Patients 0 . 4 kg to 0 . 59 kg : The total recommended dosage of Multrys is 0 . 2 mL every other day . Daily supplementation of Zinc Sulfate , Cupric Chloride and Selenious Acid will be needed to meet daily requirements .
( 2 . 5 ) • Pediatric Patients 0 . 6 kg to 10 kg : The recommended dosage of Multrys is 0 . 3 mL / kg / day rounded to the nearest 0 . 1 mL for up to a maximum of 1 mL per day .
The recommended volume of Multrys to be added to parenteral nutrition ranges from 0 . 2 mL per day to 1 mL per day based on body weight .
( 2 . 5 ) • Multrys is not recommended for patients who may require a lower dosage of one or more of the individual trace elements .
( 2 . 5 ) • Monitor trace element concentrations in blood during long - term administration of parenteral nutrition .
( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Information Multrys is supplied as a single - dose vial for admixture use only .
Prior to administration , Multrys must be transferred to a separate parenteral nutrition container , diluted , and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
The final parenteral nutrition solution is for intravenous infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
The choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions • Multrys is for admixture use only . Prior to administration , Multrys must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
• Add Multrys to the parenteral nutrition solution in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood ( or an equivalent clean air compounding area ) .
The key factor in the preparation is careful aseptic technique to avoid inadvertent touch contamination during mixing of solutions and addition of other nutrients .
• Inspect the parenteral nutrition solution containing Multrys for particulate matter before admixing , after admixing , and prior to administration .
2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using a Parenteral Nutrition Container • Inspect Multrys single - dose vial for particulate matter .
• Transfer Multrys to the parenteral nutrition container after the admixture of amino acids , dextrose , lipid emulsion ( if added ) , and electrolyte solutions is prepared .
• Because additives may be incompatible , evaluate all additions to the parenteral nutrition container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation . Consult with a pharmacist , if available . For introducing additives to the parenteral nutrition container , use aseptic technique .
• An interaction may occur between cupric ion and ascorbic acid ; therefore , multivitamin additives should be added to the admixed parenteral nutrition solution shortly before infusion .
• Inspect the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Multrys to ensure that : • Precipitates have not formed during mixing or addition of additives .
• The emulsion has not separated , if lipid emulsion has been added . Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
• Discard if any precipitates are observed .
Stability and Storage • Single dose vial . Discard any unused portion .
• Penetrate vial closure only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured dispensing of the contents .
• Transfer Multrys to the parenteral nutrition container promptly after removal from the vial .
Discard any remaining drug .
• Use parenteral nutrition solutions containing Multrys promptly after mixing . Any storage of the admixture should be under refrigeration from 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) and limited to a period of no longer than 9 days . After removal from refrigeration , use promptly and complete the infusion within 24 hours .
Discard any remaining admixture .
• Protect the parenteral nutrition solution from light .
2 . 4 Overview of Dosing • Prior to administration of parenteral nutrition solution containing Multrys , correct severe fluid , electrolyte , and acid - base disorders .
• The dosage of the final parenteral nutrition solution containing Multrys must be based on the concentrations of all components in the solution , the patient ’ s clinical condition , nutritional requirements , and the contribution of oral or enteral intake .
• Monitor fluid and electrolyte status during treatment use of Multrys and adjust the parenteral nutrition solution as needed .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients and Monitoring Considerations Multrys is a fixed - combination product .
Each mL of Multrys provides zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg .
Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Weighing 0 . 4 kg to 0 . 59 kg • The total recommended dosage of Multrys is 0 . 2 mL every other day .
• Daily supplementation of Zinc , Copper , and Selenium will be needed to meet daily requirements ( See Table 2 below ) .
Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Weighing 0 . 6 kg to less than 10 kg • The recommended dosage of Multrys is 0 . 3 mL / kg / day rounded to nearest 0 . 1 mL for up to a maximum of 1 mL per day .
• The recommended volume of Multrys to be added to parenteral nutrition ranges from 0 . 2 mL per day to 1 mL per day based on body weight , see Table 1 below .
Table 1 .
Recommended Daily Volume of Multrys and Corresponding Amount of Each Trace Element ( mcg ) Body Weight Recommended Daily Volume Amount of Trace Element Provided by the Corresponding Multrys Volume Zinc mcg Copper mcg Manganese mcg Selenium mcg 0 . 6 kg to 0 . 8 kg 0 . 2 mL 200 12 0 . 6 1 . 2 0 . 9 kg to 1 . 1 kg 0 . 3 mL 300 18 0 . 9 1 . 8 1 . 2 kg to 1 . 4 kg 0 . 4 mL 400 24 1 . 2 2 . 4 1 . 5 kg to 1 . 7 kg 0 . 5 mL 500 30 1 . 5 3 1 . 8 kg to 2 kg 0 . 6 mL 600 36 1 . 8 3 . 6 2 . 1 kg to 2 . 3 kg 0 . 7 mL 700 42 2 . 1 4 . 2 2 . 4 kg to 2 . 6 kg 0 . 8 mL 800 48 2 . 4 4 . 8 2 . 7 kg to 2 . 9 kg 0 . 9 mL 900 54 2 . 7 5 . 4 3 kg to 9 . 9 kg 1 mL 1 , 000 60 3 6 Additional Trace Element Supplementation with Multrys Multrys is recommended only for pediatric patients who require supplementation with all four of the individual trace elements ( i . e . , zinc , copper , manganese and selenium ) .
• To determine the additional amount of supplementation that is needed , compare the calculated daily recommended dosage based on the body weight of the patient to the amount of each trace element provided by Multrys and enteral nutrition sources .
Table 2 : Daily Requirement for Trace Element Supplementation for Pediatric Patients Trace Element Patient Weight ( kg ) Daily Requirement * Zinc Less than 3 kg 400 mcg / kg / day 3 kg to 5 kg 250 mcg / kg / day 5 to 10 kg 100 mcg / kg / day Copper - 20 mcg / kg / day Selenium - 2 mcg / kg / day Manganese ** - 1 mcg / kg / day * Multrys is not recommended for pediatric patients who may require a lower dosage of one or more of these individual trace elements .
** Avoid additional manganese supplementation with Multrys use .
Accumulation of manganese in the brain can occur with long - term administration with higher than the recommended dosage of 1 mcg / kg / day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
For pediatric patients weighing less than 3 kg , Multrys does not provide the recommended daily dosage of zinc .
• Zinc : For patients weighing less than 3 kg , add Zinc Sulfate to provide total daily recommended dose of 400 mcg / kg / day using parenteral and / or enteral routes of administration .
For pediatric patients weighing 0 . 4 kg to 0 . 59 kg and 4 kg to 9 . 9 kg , Multrys does not provide the recommended daily dosage of copper or selenium .
• Copper : For patients weighing 0 . 4 to 0 . 59 kg or 4 kg to 9 . 9 kg , add Cupric Chloride to provide total daily recommended dose of 20 mcg / kg / day using parenteral and / or enteral routes of administration .
• Selenium : For patients weighing 0 . 4 to 0 . 59 kg or 4 kg to 9 . 9 kg , add Selenious Acid to provide total daily recommended dose of 2 mcg / kg / day using parenteral and / or enteral routes of administration .
Monitoring • Monitor zinc , copper , and selenium serum concentrations and manganese whole blood concentrations during long - term administration of parenteral nutrition .
• Trace element concentrations may vary depending on the assay used and the laboratory reference range . The collection , processing , and storage of the blood samples should be performed according to the laboratory ’ s sample requirements for analysis .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : Each mL of Multrys contains zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg in a clear , colorless to slightly blue solution , single - dose vial .
Injection : Each mL contains zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg in a 1 mL , single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Multrys is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to zinc or copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to zinc or copper ( 4 , 5 . 7 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates : If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or more must be infused through a central catheter .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Neurologic Toxicity with Manganese : Monitor for clinical signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity , whole blood manganese concentrations , and liver function tests in patients receiving long - term Multrys . Discontinue Multrys and consider brain magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) if toxicity is suspected .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hepatic Accumulation of Copper and Manganese : Assess for development of hepatic accumulation . Monitor concentrations of copper and manganese in patients with cholestasis or cirrhosis receiving Multrys long - term .
( 5 . 4 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : Increased risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants .
( 5 . 5 ) • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Monitor zinc , copper , and selenium serum concentrations , whole blood manganese concentration , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count , and coagulation parameters .
( 5 . 6 , 2 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions with Zinc and Copper : If reactions occur , discontinue Multrys and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Pulmonary Embolism due to Pulmonary Vascular Precipitates Pulmonary vascular precipitates causing pulmonary vascular emboli and pulmonary distress have been reported in patients receiving parenteral nutrition .
The cause of precipitate formation has not been determined in all cases ; however , in some fatal cases , pulmonary emboli occurred as a result of calcium phosphate precipitates .
Precipitation has occurred following passage through an in - line filter ; in vivo precipitate formation may also have occurred .
If signs of pulmonary distress occur , stop the parenteral nutrition infusion and initiate a medical evaluation .
In addition to inspection of the solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] , the infusion set and catheter should also periodically be checked for precipitates .
5 . 2 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Multrys must be prepared and used as an admixture in parenteral nutrition solution .
It is not for direct intravenous infusion .
In addition , consider the osmolarity of the final parenteral nutrition solution in determining peripheral versus central administration .
Solution with an osmolarity of 900 mOsmol / L or greater must be infused through a central catheter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient solution into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 3 Neurologic Toxicity with Manganese Pediatric patients on long - term parenteral nutrition receiving manganese at higher than recommended dosages and pediatric patients with cholestatic liver disease have experienced manganese accumulation in the basal ganglia .
Some adult patients with brain MRI findings reportedly experienced neuropsychiatric symptoms , including changes in mood or memory , seizures and / or parkinsonian - like tremors , dysarthria , mask - face , and halting gait .
Some pediatric patients experienced dystonic movements or seizures .
Brain MRI findings and clinical symptoms have also been observed in patients who received manganese at or below the recommended dosage and with normal blood manganese concentrations .
Regression of symptoms and brain MRI findings have occurred over weeks to months following discontinuation of manganese in most patients but have not always completely resolved .
Monitor patients receiving long - term parenteral nutrition solutions containing Multrys for neurologic signs and symptoms and routinely monitor whole blood manganese concentrations and liver function tests .
In case of suspected manganese toxicity or new neuro - psychiatric manifestations , temporarily discontinue Multrys , check manganese whole blood concentrations , and consider brain MRI evaluation .
Monitor patients receiving Multrys for cholestasis or other biliary liver disease .
Consider individual trace element products as an alternative to Multrys in patients with hepatobiliary disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hepatic Accumulation of Copper and Manganese Copper is primarily eliminated in the bile and excretion is decreased in patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis .
Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese have been reported in autopsies of patients receiving long - term parenteral nutrition containing copper and manganese at dosages higher than recommended .
Patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis receiving parenteral nutrition are at increased risk of manganese brain deposition and neurotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Administration of copper to patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis may cause hepatic accumulation of copper .
Administration of copper to patients with Wilson disease , an inborn error of copper metabolism with a defect in hepatocellular copper transport , may cause both increased hepatic accumulation of copper and aggravation of the underlying hepatocellular degeneration .
If a patient develops signs or symptoms of hepatobiliary disease during the use of Multrys , obtain serum concentrations of copper and ceruloplasmin as well as manganese whole blood concentrations ; consider using individual trace element products in these patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Aluminum Toxicity Multrys contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Preterm infants , including preterm neonates , are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants and premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration or lower daily amounts .
Exposure to aluminum from Multrys is not more than 0 . 45 mcg / kg / day .
When prescribing Multrys for use in parenteral nutrition containing other small volume parenteral products , the total daily patient exposure to aluminum from the admixture should be considered and maintained at no more than 5 mcg / kg / day .
5 . 6 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Monitor zinc , copper , and selenium serum concentrations , manganese whole blood concentration , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count , and coagulation parameters during use of parenteral nutrition containing Multrys [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity Reactions with Zinc and Copper Postmarket safety reporting has identified zinc hypersensitivity in patients receiving zinc - containing insulin products and copper hypersensitivity in women receiving copper - containing intrauterine devices , providing evidence that patients may experience hypersensitivity reactions when exposed to these metals .
If hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , pruritis , angioedema , dyspnea , rash , urticaria ) occur in patients receiving Multrys in parenteral nutrition , discontinue Multrys , and initiate appropriate medical treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions were identified in clinical studies or post - marketing reports .
Given that some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions with other components of parenteral nutrition solutions : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Adverse reactions with the use of trace elements administered parenterally or by other routes of administration : • Neurologic toxicity with manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions with zinc and copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] This section intentionally left blank .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact American Regent , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 734 - 9236 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS This section intentionally left blank .
( 8 ) 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Multrys is approved for use in neonatal and pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg as a source of zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium for parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients less than 10 kg are based on published literature describing controlled studies of products containing zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Copper is primarily excreted in the bile .
Excretion is decreased in patients with cholestasis and / or cirrhosis .
Manganese is presumed to be excreted in bile [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese has been reported with long - term administration of parenteral nutrition at dosages higher than recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
For patients with cholestasis or cirrhosis , monitor hepatic and biliary function during long - term administration of Multrys .
If a patient develops signs or symptoms of hepatobiliary disease during use of Multrys , obtain serum concentrations of copper and ceruloplasmin as well as manganese whole blood concentrations ; consider using individual trace element products in these patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no information on overdose - related toxicity with a fixed - combination trace element product .
However , there are reports on overdosage in the literature for the individual trace elements .
Management of overdosage is supportive care based on presenting signs and symptoms .
Obtain blood samples for laboratory testing of the individual trace elements and ceruloplasmin for copper .
Zinc Acute zinc toxicity was reported in an infant who received an inadvertent 1 , 000 - fold overdose of zinc in parenteral nutrition that led to cardiac failure and death .
Zinc toxicity in adult patients receiving 17 to 400 - fold the recommended dosage in parenteral nutrition for 2 . 5 to 60 days reported signs and symptoms including vomiting , diarrhea , hyperamylasemia , thrombocytopenia , and anemia .
The zinc serum concentration was 2 to 30 - fold the upper end of the reported range in healthy subjects in these cases .
Copper Acute copper toxicity was reported in patients with oral , intravenous , or subcutaneous administration .
Clinical manifestations included metallic taste , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and multi - organ failure involving kidney , liver , blood , and cardiovascular systems .
Chelating agents can be used for treatment of acute toxicity .
Long - term administration of parenteral copper above recommended dosage may result in significant accumulation of copper in the liver , brain , and other tissues with possible organ damage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Manganese Acute manganese toxicity was reported in adult patients following infusion of manganese more than 10 , 000 - fold the recommended dosage and after use of dialysis fluid contaminated with manganese .
Signs and symptoms included skin flushing , acute pancreatitis , elevated whole blood manganese concentrations , and MRI evidence of brain accumulation of manganese .
Chronic infusion and oral intake of manganese above recommended dosage have resulted in neuropsychiatric symptoms and MRI evidence of brain accumulation of manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Selenium Acute selenium toxicity was reported with oral overdosage of greater than 1 g / day .
Symptoms included nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal pain , garlic breath odor , and altered mental status .
Death from circulatory collapse was reported after oral ingestion of 5 to 10 g of selenium with blood concentrations ranging 10 to 50 - fold the upper end of the reported range in healthy subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Multrys ( trace elements injection 4 * , USP ) is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , clear , and colorless to slightly blue solution , intended for use as a combination of four trace elements and an additive to intravenous solutions for parenteral nutrition .
It contains no preservative .
Each single - dose vial contains 1 mL .
* Each mL contains zinc 1 , 000 mcg ( equivalent to zinc sulfate 2 , 470 mcg ) , copper 60 mcg ( equivalent to cupric sulfate 150 mcg ) , manganese 3 mcg ( equivalent to manganese sulfate 8 . 22 mcg ) , selenium 6 mcg ( equivalent to selenious acid 9 . 8 mcg ) , and water for injection .
Sulfuric acid may be added to adjust pH between 1 . 5 and 3 . 5 .
Zinc sulfate exists as a heptahydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : ZnSO4 • 7H2O .
Molecular weight : 287 . 54 g / mol .
Cupric sulfate exists as a pentahydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : CuSO4 • 5H2O .
Molecular weight : 249 . 69 g / mol .
Manganese sulfate exists as a monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : MnSO4 • H2O .
Molecular weight : 169 . 02 g / mol .
The structural formula of selenious acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : H2SeO3 .
Molecular weight : 128 . 97 g / mol .
Multrys contains no more than 1 , 500 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Zinc Zinc functions as a cofactor of various enzymes including DNA polymerases , RNA polymerases , alcohol dehydrogenase , and alkaline phosphatases .
Zinc is a coordinator of protein structural folding that interacts with a variety of proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids .
In addition , zinc is a catalyst of essential biochemical reactions , including activation of substrates of carbonic anhydrase in erythrocyte .
Copper Copper is a cofactor for many metalloenzymes acting as an oxidase to achieve reduction of molecular oxygen .
Examples of copper metalloenzymes include but are not limited to lysyl oxidase , monoamine oxidase , ferroxidase , cytochrome C oxidase , dopamine beta monooxygenase , tyrosinase , and superoxide dismutase .
Manganese Manganese is essential for the normal catalytic activity of several metalloenzymes including manganese superoxide dismutase , arginase , glutamine synthetase , phosphoenolpyruvate decarboxylase , and pyruvate carboxylase .
Manganese contributes to the normal function of several other enzyme families including the oxidoreductases , transferases , hydrolases , lyases , isomerases , and ligases .
Selenium Selenious acid is converted in vivo to hydrogen selenide via glutathione - involved electron reductions .
Hydrogen selenide acts as a selenium pool to form selenoproteins which include , but are not limited to , glutathione peroxidase , iodothyronine deiodinase , peroxidase , and thioredoxins .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The exposure - response relationship and the time course of pharmacodynamic response are unknown for zinc , copper , manganese , and selenium .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Zinc Over 85 % of total body zinc is found in skeletal muscle and bone .
In blood , zinc is mainly localized within erythrocytes .
Approximately 80 % of serum zinc is bound to albumin and the remainder to α - 2 - macroglobulin and amino acids .
In adults , zinc is primarily excreted via the gastrointestinal tract and eliminated in the feces .
A smaller amount of zinc is excreted via the kidneys in the urine .
Urinary zinc excretion rates in very low birth weight preterm infants are relatively high in the neonatal period , and they decline to a level on a body weight basis that is similar to that of normal adults by two months of age .
Copper In plasma , about 7 % of copper is bound to albumin and amino acids .
In the liver , about 93 % of copper is bound to ceruloplasmin and released to the serum .
Copper is excreted in bile and into the gastrointestinal tract where it is not reabsorbed .
Copper is also eliminated through the kidneys .
Manganese Manganese is widely distributed in body tissues including liver and specific brain regions such as the basal ganglia .
The concentrations of manganese are higher in erythrocytes compared to the plasma or serum concentrations .
In human plasma , manganese is bound to albumin and β1 - globulin .
Manganese is found in human bile suggesting biliary excretion .
Selenium In humans , 85 % of intravenous administered 75 Se - sodium selenite was protein - bound within 4 to 6 hours and 95 % by 24 hours .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Multrys ( trace elements injection 4 * , USP ) is a clear , colorless to slightly blue solution supplied in : • 1 mL single - dose vial ( NDC 0517 - 9302 - 01 ) and packaged in trays containing 25 vials per tray ( NDC 0517 - 9302 - 25 ) .
* Each mL of Multrys contains zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg .
Vial closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store admixed solution at 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers , and home healthcare providers of the following risks of Multrys : • Pulmonary embolism due to pulmonary vascular precipitates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Neurologic toxicity with manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic accumulation of copper and manganese [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions with zinc and copper [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] IN9302 Rev . 6 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container Label NDC 0517 - 9302 - 01 Rx Only MultrysTM ( Trace Elements Injection 4 * , USP ) * Each mL provides : zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg For intravenous infusion after dilution and admixing 1 mL Single - Dose Vial - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Labeling NDC 0517 - 9302 - 25 Rx Only MultrysTM ( Trace Elements Injection 4 * , USP ) * Each mL provides : zinc 1 , 000 mcg , copper 60 mcg , manganese 3 mcg , and selenium 6 mcg For intravenous infusion after dilution and admixing 25 x 1 mL Single - Dose Vials - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
