Active ingredients Avobenzone , 3 . 0 % Homosalate , 5 . 0 % Octisalate , 5 . 0 % Octocrylene , 4 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , cyclopentasiloxane , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , steareth - 2 , polyacrylamide , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , arachidyl alcohol , behenyl alcohol , arachidyl glucoside , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , steareth - 21 , glycerin , cetearyl alcohol , phenoxyethanol , triethylene glycol , polymethyl methacrylate , silica , lecithin , soy isoflavones , polysorbate 80 , sodium lactate , porphyra umbilicalis extract , panthenol ( pro - vitamin B5 ) , opuntia streptacantha stem extract , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , fragrance , olea europaea ( olive ) leaf extract , disodium EDTA , olea europaea ( olive ) fruit oil , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , lavendula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , benzalkonium chloride , BHT , maris sal ( dead sea mineral water ) , triethanolamine .
Principal Display Panel nutritious olive leaf daily defense broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen DESERT FUSION ™ sea | earth | botanicals featuring Aquaguard Skin Marvel ™ quench + protect paraben - free 1 . 7 FL OZ ( 50 mL ) nutritious olive leaf daily defense broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen Olive leaf has been used for centuries as a medicinal plant due to its high concentration of antioxidants and phytonutrients .
Desert Fusion ’ s Nutritious Olive Leaf Daily Defense Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen harnesses the power of the olive to neutralize damaging free radicals and protect skin from irritants .
The natural botanicals helps hydrate and nourish the skin throughout the day for healthier , radiant looking skin .
Directions : Apply every morning to clean skin for a healthier looking complexion and to fight the signs of aging .
Visit us at www . desertfusionskincare . com Made and Exclusively Crafted in Israel Distributed by : Emilia Personal Care 5890 Sawmill Road Suite 230 Dublin , OH 43017 WD629 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
