Indications and usage Phentermine hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated as a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg / m2 , or ≥ 27 kg / m2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
Dosage and Administration Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
The usual adult dose is one tablet ( 37 . 5 mg ) daily , as prescribed by the physician , administered before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast .
The dosage may be adjusted to the patient ’ s need .
For some patients , half tablet ( 18 . 75 mg ) daily may be adequate , while in some cases it may be desirable to give half tablets ( 18 . 75 mg ) two times a day .
Phentermine hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤ 16 years of age .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
• History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines Warnings and precautions Coadministration With Other Drug Products for Weight Loss Phentermine hydrochloride is indicated only as short - term ( a few weeks ) monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity .
The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations , and herbal products , or serotonergic agents such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , paroxetine ) , have not been established .
Therefore , coadministration of phentermine and these drug products is not recommended .
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension Primary Pulmonary Hypertension ( PPH ) – a rare , frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine .
The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea .
Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance .
Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema , and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
Valvular Heart Disease Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , primarily affecting the mitral , aortic and / or tricuspid valves , has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss .
The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known .
The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
Development of Tolerance , Discontinuation in Case of Tolerance When tolerance to the anorectant effect develops , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
Effect on the Ability to Engage in Potentially Hazardous Tasks Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Risk of Abuse and Dependence Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to amphetamine ( d - and d / l - amphetamine ) and other related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused .
The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Usage With Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
Use in Patients With Hypertension Use caution in prescribing phentermine for patients with even mild hypertension ( risk of increase in blood pressure ) .
Use in Patients on Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemic Medications for Diabetes Mellitus A reduction in insulin or oral hypoglycemic medications in patients with diabetes mellitus may be required .
The following adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : • Primary pulmonary hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ] .
• Valvular heart disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ] .
• Effect on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks [ see Warnings and Precautions ] .
• Withdrawal effects following prolonged high dosage administration [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ] .
The following adverse reactions to phentermine have been identified : Cardiovascular Primary pulmonary hypertension and / or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , palpitation , tachycardia , elevation of blood pressure , ischemic events .
Central Nervous System Overstimulation , restlessness , dizziness , insomnia , euphoria , dysphoria , tremor , headache , psychosis .
Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth , unpleasant taste , diarrhea , constipation , other gastrointestinal disturbances .
Allergic Urticaria .
Endocrine Impotence , changes in libido .
Drug interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis .
Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category X Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant woman and may result in fetal harm .
A minimum weight gain , and no weight loss , is currently recommended for all pregnant women , including those who are already overweight or obese , due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy .
Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if phentermine is excreted in human milk ; however , other amphetamines are present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because pediatric obesity is a chronic condition requiring long - term treatment , the use of this product , approved for short - term therapy , is not recommended .
Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Renal Impairment Phentermine was not studied in patients with renal impairment .
Based on the reported excretion of phentermine in urine , exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering phentermine to patients with renal impairment [ Controlled Substance Phentermine is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Abuse Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and other stimulant drugs have been extensively abused and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
Dependence Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times than recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
A severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
Overdosage The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
Acute Overdosage Manifestations of acute overdosage include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmia , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Overdosage of pharmacologically similar compounds has resulted in fatal poisoning usually terminates in convulsions and coma .
Management of acute phentermine hydrochloride intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases phentermine excretion .
Intravenous phentolamine ( Regitine ® , CIBA ) has been suggested on pharmacologic grounds for possible acute , severe hypertension , if this complicates overdosage .
Chronic Intoxication Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients must be informed that phentermine hydrochloride is a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity , and that coadministration of phentermine with other drugs for weight loss is not recommended [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients must be instructed on how much phentermine to take , and when and how to take it [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Advise pregnant women and nursing mothers not to use phentermine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Patients must be informed about the risks of use of phentermine ( including the risks discussed in Warnings and Precautions ) , about the symptoms of potential adverse reactions and when to contact a physician and / or take other action .
The risks include , but are not limited to : Development of primary pulmonary hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Development of serious valvular heart disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Effects on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The risk of an increase in blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] The risk of interactions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 9 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] See also , for example , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 ) .
The patients must also be informed about the potential for developing tolerance and actions if they suspect development of tolerance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] and the risk of dependence and the potential consequences of abuse [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Tell patients to keep phentermine in a safe place to prevent theft , accidental overdose , misuse or abuse .
Selling or giving away phentermine may harm others and is against the law .
NOTE : FOR THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION , PLEASE VISIT THE FDA SITE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = df379f22 - 6bc5 - 45b9 - 920 b - 3dab77fe8a7e LABEL DISPLAY NDC : 51655 - 876 - 25 Phentermine HCL 37 . 5 MG CIV 60 Tablets Lot : Exp : Rx Only Store at 20 C to 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Keep out of reach of children .
Dosage : See package insert Manufactured for : Qualitest Pharmaceuticals Manufacture Address : Huntsville , AL 35811 Manufacture NDC : 0603 - 5192 - 32 MFG .
Lot : Distributed by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
