ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Niacinamide 2 . 00 % , Adenosine 0 . 04 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Beta - Glucan , Sodium Hyaluronate , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Dipropylene Glycol , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Extract , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Leaf Extract , Cymbopogon Schoenanthus Extract , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Chrysanthellum Indicum Extract , Panthenol , Xanthan Gum , Propanediol , Hydroxyacetophenone , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Disodium EDTA PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Brightening , Anti wrinkle WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only .
If the following signs occur , please stop using immediately and consult a dermatologist .
Stop using immediately if skin become red , swollen , or itchy during and after use .
Avoid using on irritated of sunburnt skin .
Stop using on troubled skin parts including eczema or dermatitis .
Avoid direct contact with the eyes , if contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
In order to prevent dryness , use soon after opening the package .
Keep away from the reach of babies and children .
Store at room temperature only .
Keep away from direct sunlight .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep away from the reach of babies and children .
Uses Uses : Helps brighten skin tone .
Helps improve wrinkle problem .
Directions Directions : Thoroughly dean and dry face .
Remove the mask sheet from the pack unfold it .
First , gently apply the mask sheet around your eye area then fit your face contours .
Leave on for 15 to 20 minutes .
Peel off the mask sheet and tap the remaining collagen essence into the skin until it is completely absorbed .
No need to rinse .
Feel free to cleanse again if desired .
Highly recommended to follow up with applying Virgin Grace Hyalu Plus Serum after using the mask sheet .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
