Rx Only DESCRIPTION Calcitriol Injection is synthetically manufactured calcitriol and is available as a sterile , isotonic , clear , colorless to yellow , aqueous solution for intravenous injection .
Calcitriol is available in 1 mL ampules .
Each 1 mL contains : Calcitriol 1 mcg ; Polysorbate 20 , 4 mg ; Sodium Chloride 1 . 5 mg ; Sodium Ascorbate 10 mg added ; Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Anhydrous 7 . 6 mg ; Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , Monohydrate 1 . 8 mg ; Edetate Disodium , Dihydrate 1 . 1 mg added ; Water for Injection q . s . pH range 6 . 7 - 7 . 7 .
Calcitriol is a crystalline compound which occurs naturally in humans .
It is soluble in organic solvents but relatively insoluble in water .
Calcitriol is chemically designated ( 5 Z , 7 E ) - 9 , 10 - secocholesta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) - triene - 1α , 3β , 25 - triol and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C27H44O3 The other names frequently used for calcitriol are 1α , 25 - dihydroxycholecalciferol , 1α , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 , 1 , 25 - DHCC , 1 , 25 ( OH ) 2D3 and 1 , 25 - diOHC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Calcitriol is the active form of vitamin D3 ( cholecalciferol ) .
The natural or endogenous supply of vitamin D in man mainly depends on ultraviolet light for conversion of 7 - dehydrocholesterol to vitamin D3 in the skin .
Vitamin D3 must be metabolically activated in the liver and the kidney before it is fully active on its target tissues .
The initial transformation is catalyzed by a vitamin D3 - 25 - hydroxylase enzyme present in the liver , and the product of this reaction is 25 - ( OH ) D3 ( calcifediol ) .
The latter undergoes hydroxylation in the mitochondria of kidney tissue , and this reaction is activated by the renal 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 - 1 - α - hydroxylase to produce 1 , 25 - ( OH ) 2D3 ( calcitriol ) , the active form of vitamin D3 .
The known sites of action of calcitriol are intestine , bone , kidney and parathyroid gland .
Calcitriol is the most active known form of vitamin D3 in stimulating intestinal calcium transport .
In acutely uremic rats , calcitriol has been shown to stimulate intestinal calcium absorption .
In bone , calcitriol , in conjunction with parathyroid hormone , stimulates resorption of calcium ; and in the kidney , calcitriol increases the tubular reabsorption of calcium .
In - vitro and in - vivo studies have shown that calcitriol directly suppresses secretion and synthesis of PTH .
A vitamin D - resistant state may exist in uremic patients because of the failure of the kidney to adequately convert precursors to the active compound , calcitriol .
Calcitriol when administered by bolus injection is rapidly available in the blood stream .
Vitamin D metabolites are known to be transported in blood , bound to specific plasma proteins .
The pharmacologic activity of an administered dose of calcitriol is about 3 to 5 days .
Two metabolic pathways for calcitriol have been identified , conversion to 1 , 24 , 25 - ( OH ) 3D3 and to calcitroic acid .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Calcitriol Injection is indicated in the management of hypocalcemia in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis .
It has been shown to significantly reduce elevated parathyroid hormone levels .
Reduction of PTH has been shown to result in an improvement in renal osteodystrophy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Calcitriol Injection should not be given to patients with hypercalcemia or evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
WARNINGS Since calcitriol is the most potent metabolite of vitamin D available , vitamin D and its derivatives should be withheld during treatment .
A non - aluminum phosphate - binding compound should be used to control serum phosphorus levels in patients undergoing dialysis .
Overdosage of any form of vitamin D is dangerous ( see also OVERDOSAGE ) .
Progressive hypercalcemia due to overdosage of vitamin D and its metabolites may be so severe as to require emergency attention .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification , nephrocalcinosis and other soft - tissue calcification .
The serum calcium times phosphate ( Ca x P ) product should not be allowed to exceed 70 .
Radiographic evaluation of suspect anatomical regions may be useful in the early detection of this condition .
PRECAUTIONS 1 .
General : Excessive dosage of Calcitriol Injection induces hypercalcemia and in some instances hypercalciuria ; therefore , early in treatment during dosage adjustment , serum calcium and phosphorus should be determined at least twice weekly .
Should hypercalcemia develop , the drug should be discontinued immediately .
Calcitriol Injection should be given cautiously to patients on digitalis , because hypercalcemia in such patients may precipitate cardiac arrhythmias .
2 .
Information for the Patient : The patient and his or her parents should be informed about adherence to instructions about diet and calcium supplementation and avoidance of the use of unapproved non - prescription drugs , including magnesium - containing antacids .
Patients should also be carefully informed about the symptoms of hypercalcemia ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
3 .
Essential Laboratory Tests : Serum calcium , phosphorus , magnesium and alkaline phosphatase and 24 - hour urinary calcium and phosphorus should be determined periodically .
During the initial phase of the medication , serum calcium and phosphorus should be determined more frequently ( twice weekly ) .
Adynamic bone disease may develop if PTH levels are suppressed to abnormal levels .
If biopsy is not being done for other ( diagnostic ) reasons , PTH levels may be used to indicate the rate of bone turnover .
If PTH levels fall below recommended target range ( 1 . 5 to 3 times the upper limit of normal ) , in patients treated with calcitriol injection , the calcitriol injection dose should be reduced or therapy discontinued .
Discontinuation of calcitriol injection therapy may result in rebound effect , therefore , appropriate titration downward to a maintenance dose is recommended .
4 .
Drug Interactions : Magnesium - containing antacid and calcitriol injection should not be used concomitantly , because such use may lead to the development of hypermagnesemia .
5 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of calcitriol injection .
Calcitriol was not mutagenic in vitro in the Ames test nor was oral calcitriol genotoxic in vivo in the Mouse Micronucleus Test .
No significant effects on fertility and / or general reproductive performances were observed in a Segment I study in rats using oral calcitriol at doses of up to 0 . 3 mcg / kg .
6 .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Calcitriol has been found to be teratogenic in rabbits when given orally at doses of 0 . 08 and 0 . 3 mcg / kg .
All 15 fetuses in 3 litters at these doses showed external and skeletal abnormalities .
However , none of the other 23 litters ( 156 fetuses ) showed external and skeletal abnormalities compared with controls .
Teratogenicity studies in rats at doses up to 0 . 45 mcg / kg orally showed no evidence of teratogenic potential .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Calcitriol injection should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : In the rabbit , oral dosages of 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day administered on days 7 to 18 of gestation resulted in 19 % maternal mortality , a decrease in mean fetal body weight and a reduced number of newborns surviving to 24 hours .
A study of the effects on orally administered calcitriol on peri - and postnatal development in rats resulted in hypercalcemia in the offspring of dams given calcitriol at doses of 0 . 08 or 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day , hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia in dams given calcitriol at a dose of 0 . 08 or 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day and increased serum urea nitrogen in dams given calcitriol at a dose of 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day .
In another study in rats , maternal weight gain was slightly reduced at an oral dose of 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day administered on days 7 to 15 of gestation .
The offspring of a woman administered oral calcitriol at 17 to 36 mcg / day during pregnancy manifested mild hypercalcemia in the first 2 days of life which returned to normal at day 3 .
7 .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from calcitriol , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 .
Pediatric Use : Pediatric use information is approved for Abbott Laboratories ' calcitriol injection .
However , due to Abbott Laboratories ' marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
9 .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of calcitriol injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosage range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects of calcitriol injection are , in general , similar to those encountered with excessive vitamin D intake .
The early and late signs and symptoms of vitamin D intoxication associated with hypercalcemia include : 1 .
EarlyWeakness , headache , somnolence , nausea , vomiting , dry mouth , constipation , muscle pain , bone pain and metallic taste .
2 .
LatePolyuria , polydipsia , anorexia , weight loss , nocturia , conjunctivitis ( calcific ) , pancreatitis , photophobia , rhinorrhea , pruritus , hyperthermia , decreased libido , elevated BUN , albuminuria , hypercholesterolemia , elevated SGOT and SGPT , ectopic calcification , hypertension , cardiac arrhythmias and , rarely , overt psychosis .
Occasional mild pain on injection has been observed .
Post - Marketing ExperienceRare cases of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported , including anaphylaxis .
OVERDOSAGE Administration of calcitriol injection to patients in excess of their requirements can cause hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria and hyperphosphatemia .
High intake of calcium and phosphate concomitant with calcitriol injection may lead to similar abnormalities .
1 .
Treatment of Hypercalcemia and Overdosage in Patients on HemodialysisGeneral treatment of hypercalcemia ( greater than 1 mg / dL above the upper limit of normal range ) consists of immediate discontinuation of calcitriol injection therapy , institution of a low calcium diet and withdrawal of calcium supplements .
Serum calcium levels should be determined daily until normocalcemia ensues .
Hypercalcemia usually resolves in two to seven days .
When serum calcium levels have returned to within normal limits , calcitriol injection therapy may be reinstituted at a dose 0 . 5 mcg less than prior therapy .
Serum calcium levels should be obtained at least twice weekly after all dosage changes .
Persistent or markedly elevated serum calcium levels may be corrected by dialysis against a calcium - free dialysate .
2 .
Treatment of Accidental Overdosage of Calcitriol InjectionThe treatment of acute accidental overdosage of calcitriol injection should consist of general supportive measures .
Serial serum electrolyte determinations ( especially calcium ) , rate of urinary calcium excretion and assessment of electrocardiographic abnormalities due to hypercalcemia should be obtained .
Such monitoring is critical in patients receiving digitalis .
Discontinuation of supplemental calcium and low calcium diet are also indicated in accidental overdosage .
Due to the relatively short duration of the pharmacological action of calcitriol , further measures are probably unnecessary .
Should , however , persistent and markedly elevated serum calcium levels occur , there are a variety of therapeutic alternatives which may be considered , depending on the patients ' underlying condition .
These include the use of drugs such as phosphates and corticosteroids as well as measures to induce an appropriate forced diuresis .
The use of peritoneal dialysis against a calcium - free dialysate has also been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The optimal dose calcitriol injection must be carefully determined for each patient .
The effectiveness of calcitriol injection therapy is predicated on the assumption that each patient is receiving an adequate and appropriate daily intake of calcium .
The RDA for calcium in adults is 800 mg .
To ensure that each patient receives an adequate daily intake of calcium , the physician should either prescribe a calcium supplement or instruct the patient in proper dietary measures .
The recommended initial dose of calcitriol injection , depending on the severity of the hypocalcemia and / or secondary hyperparathyroidism , is 1 mcg ( 0 . 02 mcg / kg ) to 2 mcg administered three times weekly , approximately every other day .
Doses as small as 0 . 5 mcg and as large as 4 mcg three times weekly have been used as an initial dose .
If a satisfactory response is not observed , the dose may be increased by 0 . 5 to 1 mcg at two to four week intervals .
During this titration period , serum calcium and phosphorus levels should be obtained at least twice weekly .
If hypercalcemia or a serum calcium times phosphate product greater than 70 is noted , the drug should be immediately discontinued until these parameters are appropriate .
Then , the calcitriol injection dose should be reinitiated at a lower dose .
Doses may need to be reduced as the PTH levels decrease in response to the therapy .
Thus , incremental dosing must be individualized and commensurate with PTH , serum calcium and phosphorus levels .
The following is a suggested approach in dose titration : PTH Levels Calcitriol Dose the same or increasing increase decreasing by < 30 % increase decreasing by > 30 % , < 60 % maintain decreasing by > 60 % decrease one and one - half to three maintain times the upper limit of normal Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Discard unused portion WARNING : PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
RETAIN IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Calcitriol Injection NDC 54868 - 6265 - 0 1 mcg / mL 1 mL ampules Boxed in 25 IN0132 Rev . 11 / 07 MG # 15726 AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - PACKAGE LABEL Calcitriol Injection NDC 54868 - 6265 - 0 1 mcg / mL 1 mL ampules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
