Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each capsule ) * Esomeprazole 20 mg ( Each delayed - release capsule contains 22 . 3 mg esomeprazole magnesium trihydrate ) Purpose Acid reducer Uses • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn ; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole Do not use if you have • trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14 - Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • swallow whole .
Do not crush or chew capsules .
• do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor before use .
Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 7 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room temperature . ]
• keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Inactive ingredients FD & C blue no 1 , FD & C red no 3 , ferrosoferric oxide , gelatin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , mono and di glycerides , polysorbate 80 , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac , sugar spheres ( corn starch and sucrose ) , talc , titanium dioxide and triethyl citrate .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 DISTRIBUTED BY THE KROGER CO .
CINCINNATI , OHIO 45202 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 24 Capsule Bottle Carton COMPARE TO the active ingredient of NEXIUM ® 24 HR ** See bottom panel NDC 30142 - 989 - 28 Kroger ® Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed - release Capsules USP , 20 mg * ACID REDUCER actual size OUR PHARMACIST RECOMMENDED Treats Frequent Heartburn !
24 HR 28 CAPSULES Two 14 - Day Courses of Treatment May Take 1 to 4 Days for Full Effect [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
