Drug Facts Active Ingredient : Sulfur 3 % Purpose Acne Treatment Soap Uses : For relief and control of acne , pimples and blackheads .
Warnings : • For external use only • Do not get into eyes .
if contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water • Using other acne medications in conjunction with this product may cause added irritation .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Stop use and consult a physician if irritation continues or worsens .
Directions : When using this product for the first time , try it on a small area of skin to test for reaction .
Wash areas where acne is present and allow soap to remain for a few minutes then rinse thoroughly with water .
Inactive ingredients : Sodium Palmate , Sodium Cocoate ( OR ) Sodium Palm Kernelate , Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Sodium Chloride , Titanium Dioxide ( Cl 77801 ) , Butyrospermum Parki ( Shea ) Butter , Tetrasodium Etidronate , Pentasodium Pentetate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Green 8 ( Cl 59040 ) , Yellow 6 ( Cl 15985 ) , Yellow 10 ( Cl 47005 ) .
Madina Acne Treatment Cleansing Bar - product label 311322 1 8 44586 00073 9 SKIN CARE LABS ACNE TREATMENT CLEANSING BAR Madina Skin Care Labs Deep Cleaning Acne Treatment Soap helps control Acne , pimples and blackheads .
Contains Shea Butter and Vitamin E to moisturize and strengthen skin .
Natural sulfur aroma will dissipate after use .
mADinA PALM OIL MADINA ® SKIN CARE LABS ACNE TREATMENT CLEANSING BAR With 3 % Sulfur for Deep Cleansing 3 . 5 oz .
( 100 g NET .
WT . )
SKIN CARE LABS ACNE TREATMENT CLEANSING BAR Madina Skin Care Labs Deep Cleaning Acne Treatment Soap helps control Acne , pimples and blackheads .
Contains Shea Butter and Vitamin E to moisturize and strengthen skin .
Natural sulfur aroma will dissipate after use .
Drug Facts Active Ingredient … … … … … … … … ..
… Purpose 3 % Sulfur … … … … … … … … … … … … … Acne Treatment Soap Uses : For relief and control of acne , pimples and blackheads .
Warnings : • § For external use only .
• § Do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water • § Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately • § Using other acne medications in conjunction with this product may cause added irritation .
• § Stop use and consult a physician if irritation continues or worsens .
Directions : When using this product for the first time , try it on a small area of skin to test for reaction .
Wash areas where acne is present and allow soap to remain for a few minutes then rinse thoroughly with water .
Inactive ingredients : Sodium Palmate , Sodium Cocoate ( OR ) Sodium Palm Kernelate , Water ( Aqua ) Glycerin , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Sodium Chloride , Titanium Dioxide ( CI77891 ) , Butyrospermium Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Tetrasodium Etidronate , Pentasodium Pentetate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Green 8 ( CI 59040 ) , Yellow 6 ( CI15985 ) , Yellow 10 ( CI 47005 ) .
MADINA INDUSTRIAL CORP .
Brooklyn NY 11217 • USA © 2013 All Rights Reserved Questions or Comments info @ madinaonline . com www . madinaonline . com This Name & Design is a registered Trademark with U . S . Pat and TM Officials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
