Drug Facts 1 Bottle Carton Active ingredient Minoxidil , USP 5 % w / v 3 Bottle Carton Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v 1 Bottle Carton Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men 3 Bottle Carton Purpose Hair regrowth treatment 1 Bottle Carton Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) 3 Bottle Carton Use to regrow hair on the scalp Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply one ml with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men • In clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 to 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men provided more hair regrowth than minoxidil topical solution 2 % • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water Questions ?
1 - 424 - 347 - 6299 between 9 : 30 am and 9 : 00 pm EST , Monday – Friday .
Distributed by Roman Health Ventures , Inc .
116 W . 23 rd Street , 4 th Floor New York , NY 10011 getroman . com NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN : May grow facial hair .
May be harmful if used during pregnancy or breast - feeding .
For best results , apply directly to scalp twice daily .
Minoxidil Topical Solution USP 5 % is for men who have a general thinning of the hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only as shown below ) .
Not intended for frontal baldness or a receding hairline .
Minoxidil Topical Solution 5 % for men has been shown to regrow hair in men with the following degrees of thinning hair or hair loss .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Single Bottle Package NDC 72484 - 095 - 03 Men ' s Extra Strength HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT roman MINOXIDIL TOPICAL SOLUTION USP 5 % Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Clinically proven to help regrow hair NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN Unscented Topical Solution One month supply One 60 mL ( 2 fl oz ) Bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Three bottle package NDC 72484 - 095 - 06 Men ' s Extra Strength HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT roman MINOXIDIL TOPICAL SOLUTION USP 5 % Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Clinically proven to help regrow hair NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN Unscented Topical Solution Three month supply Three 60 mL ( 2 fl oz ) bottles [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
