Active Ingredients : Purpose Tolnaftate 1 % W / W ........................ Antifungal Purpose : Antifungal Uses Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most : • athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • jock itch ( tinea cruris ) • ringworm ( tinea corporis ) Clinically proven to prevent most athlete ' s foot with dauly use Relieves • itching • cracking • burning • scaling • discomfort Warnings For external use only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate or store at a temperature above 120 degrees F . Use only as directed .
intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling aerosol products can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use near flame or spark or while smoking .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot or ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well before use : Hold can about 6 inches from the area to be treated .
• apply a thin layer over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product Athlete ' s Foot and Ringworm - use daily for 4 weeks Jock Itch - use daily for 2 weeks • to prevent most athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails For athlete ' s foot : • pay special attention to the spaces between the toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once a day Questions or comments ?
Please Call 305 - 805 - 3456 ( M - F 9 : 00 - 5 : 00 pm EST ) Inactive ingredients Alcohol SD - 40 - B ( 14 % w / w ) , BHT , PPG - 12 - Buteth - 16 , Kaolin , Zea Mays ( Corn ) Starch , Isobutane [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
