Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses proven clinically effective in the treatment of most : • athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • effectively soothes are relieves : • itching • burning • cracking • helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor For Diaper Rash When using this product When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or , contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between the toes .
Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot , wash the feet , and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer over the affected area twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on scalp or nails Other information • store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients ceteth - 20 , cetyl alcohol , chlorocresol , mineral oil , monobasic sodium phosphate , petrolatum , propylene glycol , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions or comments ?
Please call 305 - 805 - 3456 ( M - F 9 : 00 am - 5 : 00 pm EST www . efficientlabs . com Distributed by Efficient Laboratories , Inc . , Miami , FL 33166 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
