Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( Heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor None Other information • each teaspoon ( 5 grams ) contains : magnesium content 495 mg Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions : For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or towelling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
Directions for Plant Food Supplement LAWNS Apply at a rate of 1 / 2 pound per one thousand squae feet of lawn .
For use as a plant food supplement apply at the following rates : TOMATOES , ROSES - One teasponon per foot plant height every two weeks .
EVERGREENS , AZALEAS , RHODODENDRONS - Apply one tablespoon per nine sq . ft ( 3 ' x3 ' ) over the root zone every two to four weeks .
GARDEN PLANTA AND SHRUBBERY - Sprinkle 2 tablespoons around the base of each plant .
TREES - Apply two tablespoons per nine sq . ft . ( 3 ' x3 ' ) over root zoone once every four months GARDEN STARTUP - Sprinkle approximately one cup per 100 sq . ft ( 10 ' x 10 ' ) and mix into soil prior to plantng .
HOUSEPLANTS - Mix one teaspoon per gallon of water and feed to plants every one to four weeks .
For quicker results water plants after applying this product .
Magnesium ( Mg ) 9 . 8 % - 9 . 8 % Soluble Magnesium ( Mg ) Sulfur ( S ) 12 . 9 % - 12 . 9 % Combined Sulfur ( S ) Derived from : magnesoum sulfate F - 1253 Information regarding the contents and levels of metals in this product is available on the Internet at : http : / / agr . wa . gov GUARANTEED BY : Vi - Jon , Inc . 8515 Page Ave . St . Louis , MO 63114 PUBLIX GUARANTEE : COMPLETE SATISFACTION OR YOUR MONEY BACK DISTRIBUTED BY PUBLIX SUPER MAKRETS , INC . , 3300 PUBLIX CORPORATE PARKWAY LAKELAND , FL 33811 publix . com principal display panel Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal Publix epsom salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . • saline laxative - for relief of occassional constipation • soaking aid - for minor sprains and bruises • plant food supplement - for bigger , more vigorous plants NET WT 16 OZ ( 1 LB ) 454 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
