Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 10 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Use temporarily relieves pain caused by : • canker sores • minor mouth sores and gum irritations • denture and brace pain Warnings Flammable : • keep away from fire or flame Allergy Alert : • do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics Stop use and ask a physician if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • apply only to affected area • do not exceed recommended dosage • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a physician or dentist Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
Directions adults and children 2 years and older Dry affected area .
Apply a thin coat of gel with cotton swab or clean finger up to 4 times daily .
Allow to dry 30 - 60 seconds .
children under 12 years adult supervision should be given in the use of this product children under 2 years do not use , consult a physician or dentist Other information • do not peel off protective film .
Attempting to peel off film may result in skin irritation or tenderness .
To remove film , first apply another coat of Zilactin - B Long Lasting Mouth Sore Gel to film , and immediately wipe the area with a moist gauze pad or tissue .
• contains alcohol 65 % by volume • store at 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Boric acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , propylene glycol , purified water , salicylic acid , SD alcohol 38 - B , tannic acid Manufactured for : Blairex Laboratories , Inc .
P . O . Box 2127 Columbus , IN 47202 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Questions or Comments ?
Call TOLL FREE 1 - 800 - 252 - 4739 www . zilactin . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] PROMOTES HEALING Oral Pain Reliever Zilactin ® - B 6 Hour Canker & Mouth Sore Relief • Bioadhesive Promotes Healing • Eat and Drink Pain - Free for up to 6 Hours Net wt .
0 . 25 oz ( 7 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
