Active Ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Temporary relief of irritation and burning • Aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Open lid and peel back label on top of the wipes pouch • Pull out wipe and close lid or reseal label • Adult : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area .
• Use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • for vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting , or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• for use as moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold wipe to desire size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Ciric Acid , Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , PEG - 75 Lanolin , Sodium Citrate , 2 - Bomo - 2 - Nitropropane - 1 , 3 - Diol Unclassified Section 48 Medicated Wipes 5 in .
x 6 in .
( 12 . 7 cm x 15 . 2 cm ) Flushable Medicated Wipes Enriched with Aloe Hemorrhoidal wipes with witch hazel Since 1903 Rexall ( R ) is a registered trademark of Rexall Sundown , Inc .
Made with Advanced Flushable Technology ( R ) from 100 % plant - based materials so they ' re safe for well - maintained sewers and septics .
Not recommended for use with basement pump systems .
Flush only one wipe at a time .
Visit us at : Rexall . com or call 1 - 866 - 4 - REXALL PACKAGED FOR DOLGENCORP LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE GOODLETTSVILLE , TN 37072 USA ( C ) 2017 Advanced Flushable Technology ( R ) is a registered trademark of Nice - Pak Products , Inc .
Made in the USA of domestic and imported materials .
Principal Display Panel lid [ MULTIMEDIA ] flow wrap [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
