WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue EPANED ® as soon as possible .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue EPANED as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EPANED is an angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor indicated for : • • treatment of hypertension in adults and children older than one month , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 . 1 ) .
• • treatment of symptomatic heart failure ( 1 . 2 ) .
• • treatment of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction , to decrease the rate of development of overt heart failure and reduce hospitalization for heart failure ( 1 . 3 ) .
1 . 1 Hypertension EPANED is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure in adults and children older than one month [ see Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in Black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
EPANED is effective alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide - type diuretics .
The blood pressure lowering effects of EPANED and thiazides are approximately additive .
1 . 2 Heart Failure EPANED is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure , usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis .
In these patients , EPANED increases survival and decreases the frequency of hospitalization .
1 . 3 Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction In clinically stable asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction ≤ 35 percent ) , EPANED decreases the rate of development of overt heart failure and decreases the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • • Adult : recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
Maximum dose is 40 mg daily ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • Pediatrics : recommended starting dose is 0 . 08 mg / kg ( up to 5 mg ) once daily ( 2 . 1 ) .
Heart Failure : Initiate at 2 . 5 mg twice daily .
Titrate up to 20 mg twice daily as tolerated ( 2 . 2 ) .
Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction : Initiate at 2 . 5 mg twice daily .
Titrate up to 10 mg twice daily ( 2 . 3 ) .
EPANED Oral Solution is a ready - to - use solution intended for oral use only .
2 . 1 Hypertension Adults : The recommended initial dose in adults is 5 mg taken orally once a day .
Titrate upward to maximum of 40 mg daily as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals .
The dose may be divided and administered twice daily if the antihypertensive effect diminishes at the end of the dosing interval .
Use with diuretics : If additional blood pressure reduction is needed , EPANED may be administered with a low dose of diuretic .
The recommended initial dose in patients taking diuretics is 2 . 5 mg daily .
Dosage Adjustment for Renal Impairment : See table below .
The dosage may be titrated upward as needed to a maximum of 40 mg daily .
Renal Status Creatinine - Clearance mL / min Initial Dose mg / day Normal or Mild Impairment of Renal Function > 30 mL / min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤ 30 mL / min 2 . 5 mg Dialysis Patients [ 1 ] [ 2 ] – 2 . 5 mg [ 1 ] [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
[ 2 ] Should be taken after hemodialysis on dialysis days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Calculated using ideal body weight .
Children greater than 1 month of age : The usual recommended starting dose is 0 . 08 mg / kg ( up to 5 mg ) once daily .
Adjust dose based on blood pressure response .
Doses above 0 . 58 mg / kg ( or in excess of 40 mg ) have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
EPANED is not recommended in neonates ( i . e . , infants 1 month of age or less ) , preterm infants who have not reached a corrected post - conceptual age of 44 weeks , and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
2 . 2 Heart Failure The recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 20 mg twice a day , as tolerated .
Doses are usually given in combination with diuretics and digitalis .
In patients with hyponatremia ( serum sodium less than 130 mEq / L ) or serum creatinine greater than 1 . 6 mg / dL , the recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg once daily .
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to minimize hypovolemia and hypotension .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of EPANED does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension .
2 . 3 Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction The recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 10 mg twice a day , as tolerated .
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS EPANED is a ready - to - use oral solution that contains 1 mg / mL of enalapril maleate .
It is a clear , colorless solution with a mixed berry flavor packaged in a 150 mL white , round , high - density polyethylene bottle with a white , polypropylene , child - resistant cap and tamper - evident seal .
Each bottle contains 150 mL .
EPANED Oral Solution is a ready - to - use oral solution : 1 mg / mL enalapril maleate ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EPANED is contraindicated in patients with : • • a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • hereditary or idiopathic angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with EPANED in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
EPANED is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer EPANED within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an ACEI ( 4 ) .
• • Hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) .
• • Do not co - administer aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) .
• • In combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Impaired Renal Function : Assess renal function ( 5 . 5 ) .
• • Hyperkalemia ( 5 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue EPANED as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions Angioedema Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx , including some fatal reactions , have occurred in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including EPANED , at any time during treatment .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
EPANED should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms of angioedema has occurred .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non - Black patients .
Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 , 7 . 7 ) ] .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has occurred in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
In some cases , the angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid Reactions during Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
Anaphylactoid Reactions during Dialysis Sudden and potentially life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 3 Hypotension EPANED can cause symptomatic hypotension , sometimes complicated by oliguria , progressive azotemia , acute renal failure or death .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension include those with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg , ischemic heart disease , cerebrovascular disease , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
In these patients , EPANED should be started under very close medical supervision and such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of EPANED and / or diuretic is increased .
Symptomatic hypotension is also possible in patients with severe aortic stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , EPANED may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be through this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
5 . 4 Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis , and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
5 . 5 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function in patients treated with EPANED .
Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , post - myocardial infarction or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on EPANED .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on EPANED [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hyperkalemia Serum potassium should be monitored in patients receiving EPANED .
Drugs that inhibit the renin angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere : • • Angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hepatic failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • The most common adverse reaction for patients treated for hypertension ( ≥ 3 % ) was fatigue ( 6 . 1 ) .
• • The most common adverse reactions for patients treated for heart failure ( > 6 % ) were hypotension and dizziness ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , at 1 - 855 - 379 - 0383 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Enalapril has been evaluated for safety in more than 10 , 000 patients , including over 1 , 000 patients treated for one year or more .
In clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy for clinical adverse experiences was required in 3 . 3 % of patients with hypertension and in 5 . 7 % of patients with heart failure .
Hypertension Adverse reactions ( where rate on enalapril exceeds the rate on placebo by at least 0 . 2 % ) occurring in greater than 1 % of patients with hypertension treated with enalapril in controlled clinical trials are shown below .
In patients treated with enalapril , the maximum duration of therapy was three years ; in placebo treated patients , the maximum duration of therapy was 12 weeks .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater Than 1 % of Patients With Hypertension Enalapril Maleate Tablets ( n = 2314 ) Incidence ( discontinuation ) Placebo ( n = 230 ) Incidence Body As A Whole Fatigue 3 . 0 ( < 0 . 1 ) 2 . 6 Orthostatic Effects 1 . 2 ( < 0 . 1 ) 0 . 0 Asthenia 1 . 1 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 9 Respiratory Cough 1 . 3 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 9 Skin Rash 1 . 4 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 . 4 Heart Failure Adverse reactions seen in clinical trials of heart failure were similar to those seen in clinical trials for hypertension .
In patients treated for heart failure , there was an increased incidence of hypotension 6 . 7 percent versus 0 . 6 percent in placebo and dizziness 7 . 9 percent versus 0 . 6 percent in placebo .
6 . 2 Other Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies or Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical studies or postmarketing experience with enalapril .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Other serious clinical adverse experiences occurring since the drug was marketed or adverse experiences occurring in 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 % of patients with hypertension or heart failure in clinical trials are listed below and , within each category , are in order of decreasing severity .
Cardiovascular : Cardiac arrest ; myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident , possibly secondary to excessive hypotension in high risk patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] ; pulmonary embolism and infarction ; pulmonary edema ; rhythm disturbances , including atrial tachycardia and bradycardia ; atrial fibrillation ; palpitation ; Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Digestive : Ileus , pancreatitis , melena , anorexia , dyspepsia , constipation , glossitis , stomatitis , dry mouth .
Hematologic : Rare cases of neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and bone marrow depression .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle cramps .
Nervous / Psychiatric : Depression , confusion , ataxia , somnolence , insomnia , nervousness , peripheral neuropathy ( e . g . , paresthesia , dysesthesia ) , dream abnormality .
Respiratory : Bronchospasm , rhinorrhea , sore throat and hoarseness , asthma , upper respiratory infection , pulmonary infiltrates , eosinophilic pneumonitis .
Skin : Exfoliative dermatitis , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pemphigus , herpes zoster , erythema multiforme , urticaria , pruritus , alopecia , flushing , diaphoresis , photosensitivity .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , taste alteration , anosmia , tinnitus , conjunctivitis , dry eyes , tearing .
Urogenital : Flank pain , gynecomastia , impotence .
Miscellaneous : A symptom complex has been reported which may include some or all of the following : a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia / myositis , fever , serositis , vasculitis , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , photosensitivity , dermatologic manifestations .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( as on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , use with NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , may result in deterioration of renal function , including renal failure .
Monitor renal function periodically ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • Avoid potassium sparing agents in patients with heart failure ( 7 . 3 ) .
• • Monitor serum lithium levels frequently ( 7 . 4 ) .
7 . 1 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents ( NSAIDs ) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including enalapril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving enalapril and NSAID therapy .
In a clinical pharmacology study , indomethacin or sulindac was administered to hypertensive patients receiving enalapril maleate .
In this study , there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of enalapril maleate .
However , reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors .
7 . 2 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on EPANED and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with EPANED in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with EPANED in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 3 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium EPANED attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium .
7 . 4 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving enalapril and lithium concomitantly which was generally reversible .
It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if enalapril is administered concomitantly with lithium .
7 . 5 Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including enalapril .
7 . 6 mTOR Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 7 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • EPANED is not recommended in neonates and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( 8 . 4 ) .
• • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary EPANED can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue EPANED as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population ( s ) are unknown .
In the general U . S . population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Adverse reactions in the fetus or in neonates with a history of in utero exposure to enalapril maleate .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , oligohydramnios , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydraminos may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to EPANED for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria or hypotension occurs in neonates with a history of in utero exposure to EPANED , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Enalapril and enalaprilat have been detected in human breast milk .
Because of the potential for severe adverse reactions in the breastfed infant , including hypotension , hyperkalemia and renal impairment , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with EPANED .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to enalapril maleate If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Enalapril , which crosses the placenta , has been removed from neonatal circulation by peritoneal dialysis with some clinical benefit , and theoretically may be removed by exchange transfusion , although there is no experience with the latter procedure .
Pediatric patients with hypertension EPANED is not recommended in neonates ( i . e . , infants 1 month of age or less ) , preterm infants who have not reached a corrected post - conceptual age of 44 weeks , and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Enalapril lowers blood pressure in hypertensive pediatric patients age 6 years to 16 years .
Use of enalapril in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of enalapril in pediatric and adult patients as well as by published literature in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Clinical efficacy studies of enalapril in pediatric patients with hypertension did not enroll patients less than 6 years of age .
In a previous clinical study in pediatric patients between 2 months and 6 years of age , a higher weight - based dose was required to match exposure in children aged 6 to 16 years [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
It is unknown whether post - natal use of ACE inhibitors such as enalapril before maturation of renal function is complete has long - term deleterious effects on the kidney .
In humans , nephrogenesis is thought to be complete around birth ; however maturation of other aspects of kidney function ( such as glomerular filtration and tubular function ) may continue until approximately 2 years of age [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with heart failure or asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction Safety and effectiveness of enalapril have not been established in pediatric patients with heart failure or asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Race ACE inhibitors , including EPANED , as monotherapy have an effect on blood pressure that is less in Black patients than in non - Blacks .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Use a lower initial dose of EPANED in patients undergoing hemodialysis and in patients whose eGFR is ≤ 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available in regard to overdosage in humans .
Single oral doses of enalapril above 1 , 000 mg / kg and ≥ 1 , 775 mg / kg were associated with lethality in mice and rats , respectively .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Enalaprilat may be removed from general circulation by hemodialysis and has been removed from neonatal circulation by peritoneal dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION EPANED ( enalapril maleate ) Oral Solution is the maleate salt of enalapril , the ethyl ester prodrug of a long - acting angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , enalaprilat .
Enalapril maleate is chemically described as ( S ) - 1 - [ N - [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenylpropyl ] - L - alanyl ] - L - proline , ( Z ) - 2 - butenedioate salt ( 1 : 1 ) .
Its empirical formula is C20H28N2O5 • C4H4O4 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Enalapril maleate is a white to off - white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 492 . 52 .
It is sparingly soluble in water , soluble in ethanol , and freely soluble in methanol .
EPANED Oral Solution is a ready - to - use oral solution .
Each 1 mL contains 1 mg of enalapril maleate , USP equivalent to 0 . 764 mg of enalapril .
Inactive ingredients include citric acid , mixed berry flavor , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , and sucralose .
It may also contain hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
EPANED Oral Solution is clear and colorless .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Enalapril , after hydrolysis to enalaprilat , inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
The beneficial effects of enalapril in hypertension and heart failure appear to result primarily from suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
Although the latter decrease is small , it results in small increases of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients treated with enalapril maleate tablets alone for up to 48 weeks , mean increases in serum potassium of approximately 0 . 2 mEq / L were observed .
In patients treated with enalapril maleate tablets plus a thiazide diuretic , there was essentially no change in serum potassium [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of EPANED remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which EPANED lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , enalapril is antihypertensive even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although enalapril maleate tablets were antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to enalapril monotherapy than non - Black patients .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hypertension Adults Administration of enalapril maleate tablets to patients with hypertension of severity ranging from mild to severe results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure , usually with no orthostatic component .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is therefore infrequent , although it might be anticipated in volume - depleted patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In most patients studied , after oral administration of a single dose of enalapril , onset of antihypertensive activity was seen at one hour with peak reduction of blood pressure achieved by four to six hours .
At recommended doses , antihypertensive effects have been maintained for at least 24 hours .
In some patients the effects may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In some patients achievement of optimal blood pressure reduction may require several weeks of therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of enalapril have continued during long - term therapy .
Abrupt withdrawal of enalapril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
In hemodynamic studies in patients with essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance with an increase in cardiac output and little or no change in heart rate .
Following administration of enalapril , there is an increase in renal blood flow ; glomerular filtration rate is usually unchanged .
The effects appear to be similar in patients with renovascular hypertension .
When given together with thiazide - type diuretics , the blood pressure lowering effects of enalapril maleate are approximately additive .
In a clinical pharmacology study , indomethacin or sulindac was administered to hypertensive patients receiving enalapril maleate tablets .
In this study , there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of enalapril [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients In a clinical study involving 110 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed < 50 kg received either 0 . 625 , 2 . 5 , or 20 mg of enalapril daily and patients who weighed ≥ 50 kg received either 1 . 25 , 5 , or 40 mg of enalapril daily .
Enalapril administration once daily lowered trough blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner .
The dose - dependent antihypertensive efficacy of enalapril was consistent across all subgroups ( age , Tanner stage , gender , race ) .
However , the lowest doses studied , 0 . 625 mg and 1 . 25 mg , corresponding to an average of 0 . 02 mg / kg once daily , did not appear to offer consistent antihypertensive efficacy .
In this study , enalapril maleate was generally well tolerated .
Limited information exists on the blood pressure lowering effects in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age .
Heart Failure In trials in patients treated with digitalis and diuretics , treatment with enalapril resulted in decreased systemic vascular resistance , blood pressure , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and heart size , and increased cardiac output and exercise tolerance .
Heart rate was unchanged or slightly reduced , and mean ejection fraction was unchanged or increased .
There was a beneficial effect on severity of heart failure as measured by the New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) classification and on symptoms of dyspnea and fatigue .
Hemodynamic effects were observed after the first dose , and appeared to be maintained in uncontrolled studies lasting as long as four months .
Effects on exercise tolerance , heart size , and severity and symptoms of heart failure were observed in placebo - controlled studies lasting from eight weeks to over one year .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ready - to - use EPANED Oral Solution was shown to be bioequivalent to that of reconstituted EPANED Powder for Oral Solution under fasted conditions .
Reconstituted EPANED Powder for Oral Solution was shown to be bioequivalent to Vasotec ® tablets .
Reconstituted EPANED Powder for Oral Solution was also evaluated under fed and fasted conditions .
A high - fat meal reduced the Cmax of enalapril and enalaprilat by 46 % and 36 % , respectively .
The exposure , as measured by AUC , to enalaprilat was reduced by 23 % .
The time to peak concentrations ( Cmax ) was delayed by 20 minutes for enalapril and 62 minutes for enalaprilat .
The trough plasma concentrations of enalapril ( from 6 to 12 hours ) and enalaprilat ( from 16 to 36 hours ) are similar between fasted and fed administrations .
Adults Following oral administration of enalapril maleate tablets , peak serum concentrations of enalapril occur within about one hour .
Based on urinary recovery , the extent of absorption of enalapril is approximately 60 % .
Enalapril absorption is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract .
Following absorption , enalapril is hydrolyzed to enalaprilat , which is a more potent angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor than enalapril ; enalaprilat is poorly absorbed when administered orally .
Peak serum concentrations of enalaprilat occur three to four hours after an oral dose of enalapril maleate .
Excretion of enalapril is primarily renal .
Approximately 94 % of the dose is recovered in the urine and feces as enalaprilat or enalapril .
The principal components in urine are enalaprilat , accounting for about 40 % of the dose , and intact enalapril .
There is no evidence of metabolites of enalapril , other than enalaprilat .
The serum concentration profile of enalaprilat exhibits a prolonged terminal phase , apparently representing a small fraction of the administered dose that has been bound to ACE .
The amount bound does not increase with dose , indicating a saturable site of binding .
The effective half - life for accumulation of enalaprilat following multiple doses of enalapril maleate is 11 hours .
The disposition of enalapril and enalaprilat in patients with renal insufficiency is similar to that in patients with normal renal function until the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mL / min or less .
With glomerular filtration rate ≤ 30 mL / min , peak and trough enalaprilat levels increase , time to peak concentration increases , and time to steady state may be delayed .
The effective half - life of enalaprilat following multiple doses of enalapril maleate is prolonged at this level of renal insufficiency [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Enalaprilat is dialyzable at the rate of 62 mL / min .
Administering enalapril 1 h after hemodialysis led to a reduction of approximately 50 % in the enalaprilat AUC0 - 6 h compared to off dialysis days .
Pediatric Patients A multiple dose pharmacokinetics study was conducted in 40 hypertensive male and female pediatric patients aged 2 months to ≤ 16 years following daily oral administration of 0 . 07 to 0 . 14 mg / kg enalapril maleate .
At steady state , the mean effective half - life for accumulation of enalaprilat was 14 hours and the mean urinary recovery of total enalapril and enalaprilat in 24 hours was 68 % of the administered dose .
Conversion of enalapril to enalaprilat was in the range of 63 - 76 % .
The overall results of this study indicate that the pharmacokinetics of enalapril in hypertensive children aged 6 to ≤ 16 years are consistent across the studied age groups and consistent with pharmacokinetic historical data in healthy adults .
Hypertensive children aged 2 months to 6 years required higher weight - based doses ( 0 . 13 mg / kg and 0 . 11 mg / kg ) compared to the older age groups ( 0 . 11 mg / kg and 0 . 07 mg / kg ) , to achieve similar steady - state AUC .
In the above pediatric study , enalapril maleate was given as tablets and for those children and infants who were unable to swallow tablets or who required a lower dose than is available in tablet form , enalapril was administered in a suspension formulation .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect when enalapril was administered for 106 weeks to male and female rats at doses up to 90 mg / kg / day or for 94 weeks to male and female mice at doses up to 90 and 180 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are 26 times ( in rats and female mice ) and 13 times ( in male mice ) the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHDD ) when compared on a body surface area basis .
Neither enalapril maleate nor the active diacid was mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
Enalapril was also negative in the following genotoxicity studies : rec - assay , reverse mutation assay with E . coli , sister chromatid exchange with cultured mammalian cells , and the micronucleus test with mice , as well as in an in vivo cytogenic study using mouse bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on reproductive performance of male and female rats treated with up to 90 mg / kg / day of enalapril ( 26 times the MRHDD when compared on a body surface area basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In several experimental published studies , rat pups exposed to daily enalapril from birth to post ‑ natal Day 13 ( the period of nephrogenesis in this species ) developed irreversible renal toxicity .
In contrast , treatment after post - natal Day 14 was not toxic to the more mature kidney .
Rat kidney development at birth and at 14 days is similar to the human at mid - trimester and in infancy , respectively .
The toxic dosages in these studies were about 10 X , on a mg / m2 basis , the highest recommended oral ( 0 . 58 mg / kg / day ) pediatric dosages to treat hypertension .
Lower dosages were not studied .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Heart Failure , Mortality Trials In a multicenter , placebo - controlled clinical trial , 2 , 569 patients with all degrees of symptomatic heart failure and ejection fraction ≤ 35 percent were randomized to placebo or enalapril and followed for up to 55 months ( SOLVD - Treatment ) .
Use of enalapril was associated with an 11 percent reduction in all - cause mortality and a 30 percent reduction in hospitalization for heart failure .
Diseases that excluded patients from enrollment in the study included severe stable angina ( > 2 attacks / day ) , hemodynamically significant valvular or outflow tract obstruction , renal failure ( creatinine > 2 . 5 mg / dL ) , cerebral vascular disease ( e . g . , significant carotid artery disease ) , advanced pulmonary disease , malignancies , active myocarditis and constrictive pericarditis .
The mortality benefit associated with enalapril does not appear to depend upon digitalis being present .
A second multicenter trial used the SOLVD protocol for study of asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic patients .
SOLVD - Prevention patients , who had left ventricular ejection fraction ≤ 35 % and no history of symptomatic heart failure , were randomized to placebo ( n = 2117 ) or enalapril ( n = 2111 ) and followed for up to 5 years .
The majority of patients in the SOLVD - Prevention trial had a history of ischemic heart disease .
A history of myocardial infarction was present in 80 percent of patients , current angina pectoris in 34 percent , and a history of hypertension in 37 percent .
No statistically significant mortality effect was demonstrated in this population .
Enalapril - treated subjects had 32 % fewer first hospitalizations for heart failure , and 32 % fewer total heart failure hospitalizations .
Compared to placebo , 32 percent fewer patients receiving enalapril developed symptoms of overt heart failure .
Hospitalizations for cardiovascular reasons were also reduced .
There was an insignificant reduction in hospitalizations for any cause in the enalapril treatment group ( for enalapril vs . placebo , respectively , 1166 vs . 1201 first hospitalizations , 2649 vs . 2840 total hospitalizations ) , although the study was not powered to look for such an effect .
The SOLVD - Prevention trial was not designed to determine whether treatment of asymptomatic patients with low ejection fraction would be superior , with respect to preventing hospitalization , to closer follow - up and use of enalapril at the earliest sign of heart failure .
However , under the conditions of follow - up in the SOLVD - Prevention trial ( every 4 months at the study clinic ; personal physician as needed ) , 68 % of patients on placebo who were hospitalized for heart failure had no prior symptoms recorded which would have signaled initiation of treatment .
The SOLVD - Prevention trial was also not designed to show whether enalapril modified the progression of underlying heart disease .
In another multicenter , placebo - controlled trial ( CONSENSUS ) limited to patients with NYHA Class IV congestive heart failure and radiographic evidence of cardiomegaly , use of enalapril was associated with improved survival .
The results are shown in the following table .
CONSENSUS Survival Rates SURVIVAL ( % ) Six Months One Year VASOTEC ( n = 127 ) 74 64 Placebo ( n = 126 ) 56 48 In both CONSENSUS and SOLVD - Treatment trials , patients were also usually receiving digitalis , diuretics or both .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING EPANED is a ready - to - use solution that contains 1 mg / mL of enalapril maleate .
It is a clear , colorless oral solution with a mixed berry flavor , packaged in a 150 - mL , white , round , high - density polyethylene bottle with a white , polypropylene , child - resistant cap and tamper - evident seal .
Each bottle contains 150 mL .
NDC 52652 - 4001 - 1 Store refrigerated ( 2 ° C - 8 ° C / 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) in a tightly closed container .
Patients may store EPANED either refrigerated ( 2 ° C - 8 ° C / 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) or at room temperature ( 20 ° C - 25 ° C / 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
If stored at room temperature , discard after 60 days .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Pregnancy Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to EPANED during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
• • Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur at any time during treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , including enalapril .
Advise patients to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to consult with the prescribing physician before taking more drug .
• • Hypotension Caution patients to report lightheadedness , especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , tell patients to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Tell patients that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; advise patients to consult with their physician .
• • Hyperkalemia Tell patients to consult their physician prior to using salt substitutes containing potassium .
EPANED is a registered trademark of Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Vasotec is a registered trademark of Valeant International Bermuda .
Manufactured for : Azurity Pharmaceuticals ® Wilmington , MA 01887 USA U . S . Patents : 9 , 669 , 008 ; 9 , 808 , 442 ; 10 , 039 , 745 ; 10 , 154 , 987 This product ’ s label may have been updated .
For current Full Prescribing Information , please visit www . epaned . com PI100071 . 04 Rev . 7 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 52652 - 4001 - 1 Epaned ® ( enalapril maleate ) Oral Solution 1 mg / mL For Oral Use Only READY TO USE 150 mL azurity ™ pharmaceuticals Rx Only Each 1 mL contains 1 mg enalapril maleate equivalent to 0 . 764 mg enalapril .
Usual Dose : See prescribing information .
Store refrigerated 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) Patients may store Epaned at room temperature ( 20 ° - 25 ° C / 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
If stored at room temperature , discard after 60 days .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat .
Keep container tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN P / N 141145 Manufactured for : Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Wilmington , MA 01887 USA Lot : Exp : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
