Active Ingredients : ( % ) Purpose Benzocaine USP 7 . 5 % ................
Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Purpose Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Warnings : Do not exceed recommended dosage Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause mthemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptyly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of enegry Allegry alert do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as prcaine , butacaine , bezocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Consult a doctor promptly if : sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens .
If sore throat is sever , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting .
Keep Out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
DIRECTIONS : For children over 12 years of age and Adults • Apply Finafta ® MultiOral Spray up to 4 times daily to affected areas of the mouth , gums or mucus membranes ( mouth and throat ) .
• Allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
• Close bottle tightly after each use .
• Children under 12 years of age : Do not use .
USES For the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth , pain associated with canker sores or pain due to minor irritation of the mouth and gums cause by dentures or othodontic applicances .
Inactive ingredients : Benzalkonium chloride , glycerin , methylparaben , peppermint oil , phosphoric acid , propylene glycol , propylparaben and purified water .
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ?
305 - 805 - 3456 Monday - Friday ( 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . EST ) www . efficientlabs . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
