Active Ingredients : ( % ) Purpose Ethyl Alcohol 60 % v / v ........................ Anesthetic / Analgesic Salicylic Acid 1 % w / v ......................... Anesthetic / Analgesic Benzocaine USP 5 % w / v ................... Anesthetic / Analgesic Purpose Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of pain associated with canker sores Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause mthemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptyly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of enegry Allegry alert • do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as prcaine , butacaine , bezocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Alcogol Warning : If you consume 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day , ask your doctor whehter you should take slicylic acid or other pain reliever , fever reducer .
Salicylic acid may cause stomach bleeding .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this prduct Do not use near eyes .
Do not prolong usage unless directed by a doctor / dentist .
Stop use and ask a doctor promptly if sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days or if irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens .
If you sore throat is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose : Get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years of age apply to the affected area , mouth , gums or mucous membrane with the applicator provided , up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not rinse mouth after each use .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of the product .
Do not use in children under 2 years of age .
Questions or comments ?
305 - 805 - 3456 Monday - Friday ( 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . EST ) www . efficientlabs . com Inactive Ingredients : Propylene Glycol and Purified Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
