DESCRIPTIONPLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) is an inhibitor of ADP - induced platelet aggregation acting by direct inhibition of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) binding to its receptor and of the subsequent ADP - mediated activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb / IIIa complex .
Chemically it is methyl ( + ) - ( S ) - α - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 6 , 7 - dihydrothieno [ 3 , 2 - c ] pyridine - 5 ( 4 H ) - acetate sulfate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The empirical formula of clopidogrel bisulfate is C16H16ClNO2S • H2SO4 and its molecular weight is 419 . 9 .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clopidogrel bisulfate is a white to off - white powder .
It is practically insoluble in water at neutral pH but freely soluble at pH 1 .
It also dissolves freely in methanol , dissolves sparingly in methylene chloride , and is practically insoluble in ethyl ether .
It has a specific optical rotation of about + 56 ° .
PLAVIX for oral administration is provided as either pink , round , biconvex , debossed , film - coated tablets containing 97 . 875 mg of clopidogrel bisulfate which is the molar equivalent of 75 mg of clopidogrel base or pink , oblong , debossed film - coated tablets containing 391 . 5 mg of clopidogrel bisulfate which is the molar equivalent of 300 mg of clopidogrel base .
Each tablet contains hydrogenated castor oil , hydroxypropylcellulose , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose and polyethylene glycol 6000 as inactive ingredients .
The pink film coating contains ferric oxide , hypromellose 2910 , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
The tablets are polished with Carnauba wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYMechanism of Action and Pharmacodynamic PropertiesClopidogrel is a prodrug , one of whose metabolites is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation .
A variety of drugs that inhibit platelet function have been shown to decrease morbid events in people with established cardiovascular atherosclerotic disease as evidenced by stroke or transient ischemic attacks , myocardial infarction , unstable angina or the need for vascular bypass or angioplasty .
This indicates that platelets participate in the initiation and / or evolution of these events and that inhibiting platelet function can reduce the event rate .
Clopidogrel must be metabolized by CYP450 enzymes to produce the active metabolite that inhibits platelet aggregation .
The active metabolite of clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) to its platelet P2Y12 receptor and the subsequent ADP - mediated activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb / IIIa complex , thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation .
This action is irreversible .
Consequently , platelets exposed to clopidogrel ' s active metabolite are affected for the remainder of their lifespan ( about 7 to 10 days ) .
Platelet aggregation induced by agonists other than ADP is also inhibited by blocking the amplification of platelet activation by released ADP .
Because the active metabolite is formed by CYP450 enzymes , some of which are polymorphic or subject to inhibition by other drugs , not all patients will have adequate platelet inhibition .
Dose dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation can be seen 2 hours after single oral doses of PLAVIX .
Repeated doses of 75 mg PLAVIX per day inhibit ADP - induced platelet aggregation on the first day , and inhibition reaches steady state between Day 3 and Day 7 .
At steady state , the average inhibition level observed with a dose of 75 mg PLAVIX per day was between 40 % and 60 % .
Platelet aggregation and bleeding time gradually return to baseline values after treatment is discontinued , generally in about 5 days .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionAfter single and repeated oral doses of 75 mg per day , clopidogrel is rapidly absorbed .
Mean peak plasma levels of unchanged clopidogrel ( approximately 2 . 2 - 2 . 5 ng / mL after a single 75 - mg oral dose ) occurred approximately 45 minutes after dosing .
Absorption is at least 50 % , based on urinary excretion of clopidogrel metabolites .
Effect of FoodThe effect of food on the bioavailability of the parent compound or active metabolite is currently not known .
DistributionClopidogrel and the main circulating inactive metabolite bind reversibly in vitro to human plasma proteins ( 98 % and 94 % , respectively ) .
The binding is nonsaturable in vitro up to a concentration of 100 mcg / mL .
MetabolismClopidogrel is extensively metabolized by the liver .
In vitro and in vivo , clopidogrel is metabolized according to two main metabolic pathways : one mediated by esterases and leading to hydrolysis into its inactive carboxylic acid derivative ( 85 % of circulating metabolites ) , and one mediated by multiple cytochromes P450 .
Cytochromes first oxidize clopidogrel to a 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Subsequent metabolism of the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite results in formation of the active metabolite , a thiol derivative of clopidogrel .
In vitro , this metabolic pathway is mediated by CYP3A4 , CYP2C19 , CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 .
The active thiol metabolite , which has been isolated in vitro , binds rapidly and irreversibly to platelet receptors , thus inhibiting platelet aggregation .
EliminationFollowing an oral dose of 14 C - labeled clopidogrel in humans , approximately 50 % of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 46 % in feces over the 5 days post - dosing .
After a single , oral dose of 75 mg , clopidogrel has a half - life of approximately 6 hours .
The elimination half - life of the inactive acid metabolite was 8 hours after single and repeated administration .
Covalent binding to platelets accounted for 2 % of radiolabel with a half - life of 11 days .
In plasma and urine , the glucuronide of the carboxylic acid derivative is also observed .
PharmacogeneticsSeveral polymorphic CYP450 enzymes activate clopidogrel .
CYP2C19 is involved in the formation of both the active metabolite and the 2 - oxo - clopidogrel intermediate metabolite .
Clopidogrel active metabolite pharmacokinetics and antiplatelet effects , as measured by ex vivo platelet aggregation assays , differ according to CYP2C19 genotype .
The CYP2C19 * 1 allele corresponds to fully functional metabolism while the CYP2C19 * 2 and CYP2C19 * 3 alleles correspond to reduced metabolism .
The CYP2C19 * 2 and CYP2C19 * 3 alleles account for 85 % of reduced function alleles in whites and 99 % in Asians .
Other alleles associated with reduced metabolism include CYP2C19 * 4 , * 5 , * 6 , * 7 , and * 8 , but these are less frequent in the general population .
Published frequencies for the common CYP2C19 phenotypes and genotypes are listed in the table below .
To date , the impact of CYP2C19 genotype on the pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel ' s active metabolite has been evaluated in 227 subjects from 7 reported studies .
Reduced CYP2C19 metabolism in intermediate and poor metabolizers decreased the Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite by 30 - 50 % following 300 - or 600 mg loading doses and 75 mg maintenance doses .
Lower active metabolite exposure results in less platelet inhibition or higher residual platelet reactivity .
To date , diminished antiplatelet responses to clopidogrel have been described for intermediate and poor metabolizers in 21 reported studies involving 4 , 520 subjects .
The relative difference in antiplatelet response between genotype groups varies across studies depending on the method used to evaluate response , but is typically greater than 30 % .
The association between CYP2C19 genotype and clopidogrel treatment outcome was evaluated in 2 post - hoc clinical trial analyses ( substudies of CLARITY - TIMI 281 [ n = 465 ] and TRITON - TIMI 382 [ n = 1 , 477 ] ) and 5 cohort studies ( total n = 6 , 489 ) .
In CLARITY - TIMI 28 and one of the cohort studies ( n = 765 ; Trenk3 ) , cardiovascular event rates did not differ significantly by genotype .
In TRITON - TIMI 38 and 3 of the cohort studies ( n = 3 , 516 ; Collet , 4 Sibbing , 5 Giusti6 ) , patients with an impaired metabolizer status ( intermediate and poor combined ) had a higher rate of cardiovascular events ( death , myocardial infarction , and stroke ) or stent thrombosis compared to extensive metabolizers .
In the fifth cohort study ( n = 2 , 208 ; Simon7 ) , the increased event rate was observed only in poor metabolizers .
Pharmacogenetic testing can identify genotypes associated with variability in CYP2C19 activity .
There may be genetic variants of other CYP450 enzymes with effects on the ability to form clopidogrel ' s active metabolite .
1 Mega JL , Thakuria JV , Cannon CP , Sabatine MS . Sequence variations in CYP metabolism genes and cardiovascular outcomes following treatment with clopidogrel : insights from the CLARITY - TIMI 28 genomic study .
2008 ; ACC Meeting Abstract 2 Mega et al .
Cytochrome P - 450 polymorphisms and response to clopidogrel .
N Engl J Med 2009 ; 360 : 354 - 62 3 Trenk et al .
Cytochrome P450 2C19 681 G > A polymorphism and high on - clopidogrel platelet reactivity associated with adverse 1 - year clinical outcome of elective percutaneous coronary intervention with drug - eluting or bare - metal stents .
J Am Coll Cardiol 2008 ; 51 , 20 : 1952 4 Collet JP et al .
Cytochrome P450 2C19 polymorphism in young patients treated with clopidogrel after myocardial infarction : a cohort study .
The Lancet 2009 ; 373 : 309 - 317 5 Sibbing D et al .
Cytochrome P450 2C19 loss - of - function polymorphism and stent thrombosis following percutaneous coronary intervention .
Eur Heart J 2009 : 1 - 7 6 Giusti et al .
Relation of cytochrome P450 2C19 loss - of - function polymorphism to occurrence of drug - eluting coronary stent thrombosis .
Am J Cardiol 2009 ; 103 : 806 – 811 7 Simon et al .
Genetic determinants of response to clopidogrel and cardiovascular events .
N Engl J Med 2009 ; 360 ( 4 ) : 363 - 75 Special PopulationsThe pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel ' s active metabolite is not known in these special populations .
Geriatric PatientsIn elderly ( ≥ 75 years ) volunteers compared to young healthy volunteers , there were no differences in platelet aggregation and bleeding time .
No dosage adjustment is needed for the elderly .
Renally - Impaired PatientsAfter repeated doses of 75 mg PLAVIX per day in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance from 5 to 15 mL / min ) , inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was lower ( 25 % ) than that observed in healthy volunteers , however , the prolongation of bleeding time was similar to healthy volunteers receiving 75 mg of PLAVIX per day .
Hepatically - Impaired PatientsAfter repeated doses of 75 mg PLAVIX per day for 10 days in patients with severe hepatic impairment , inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was similar to that observed in healthy subjects .
The mean bleeding time prolongation was also similar in the two groups .
GenderIn a small study comparing men and women , less inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation was observed in women , but there was no difference in prolongation of bleeding time .
In the large , controlled clinical study ( Clopidogrel vs . Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events ; CAPRIE ) , the incidence of clinical outcome events , other adverse clinical events , and abnormal clinical laboratory parameters was similar in men and women .
RaceThe prevalence of CYP2C19 alleles that result in intermediate and poor CYP2C19 metabolism differs according to race / ethnicity ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacogenetics ) .
CLINICAL STUDIESThe clinical evidence for the efficacy of PLAVIX is derived from four double - blind trials involving 81 , 090 patients : the CAPRIE study ( Clopidogrel vs . Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events ) , a comparison of PLAVIX to aspirin , and the CURE ( Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to Prevent Recurrent Ischemic Events ) , the COMMIT / CCS - 2 ( Clopidogrel and Metoprolol in Myocardial Infarction Trial / Second Chinese Cardiac Study ) studies comparing PLAVIX to placebo , both given in combination with aspirin and other standard therapy and CLARITY - TIMI 28 ( Clopidogrel as Adjunctive Reperfusion Therapy – Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction ) .
Recent Myocardial Infarction ( MI ) , Recent Stroke or Established Peripheral Arterial DiseaseThe CAPRIE trial was a 19 , 185 - patient , 304 - center , international , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group study comparing PLAVIX ( 75 mg daily ) to aspirin ( 325 mg daily ) .
The patients randomized had : 1 ) recent histories of myocardial infarction ( within 35 days ) ; 2 ) recent histories of ischemic stroke ( within 6 months ) with at least a week of residual neurological signs ; or 3 ) objectively established peripheral arterial disease .
Patients received randomized treatment for an average of 1 . 6 years ( maximum of 3 years ) .
The trial ' s primary outcome was the time to first occurrence of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new myocardial infarction ( fatal or not ) , or other vascular death .
Deaths not easily attributable to nonvascular causes were all classified as vascular .
As shown in the table , PLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) was associated with a lower incidence of outcome events of every kind .
The overall risk reduction ( 9 . 8 % vs . 10 . 6 % ) was 8 . 7 % , P = 0 . 045 .
Similar results were obtained when all - cause mortality and all - cause strokes were counted instead of vascular mortality and ischemic strokes ( risk reduction 6 . 9 % ) .
In patients who survived an on - study stroke or myocardial infarction , the incidence of subsequent events was again lower in the PLAVIX group .
The curves showing the overall event rate are shown in Figure 1 .
The event curves separated early and continued to diverge over the 3 - year follow - up period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CHART Although the statistical significance favoring PLAVIX over aspirin was marginal ( P = 0 . 045 ) , and represents the result of a single trial that has not been replicated , the comparator drug , aspirin , is itself effective ( vs . placebo ) in reducing cardiovascular events in patients with recent myocardial infarction or stroke .
Thus , the difference between PLAVIX and placebo , although not measured directly , is substantial .
The CAPRIE trial included a population that was randomized on the basis of 3 entry criteria .
The efficacy of PLAVIX relative to aspirin was heterogeneous across these randomized subgroups ( P = 0 . 043 ) .
It is not clear whether this difference is real or a chance occurrence .
Although the CAPRIE trial was not designed to evaluate the relative benefit of PLAVIX over aspirin in the individual patient subgroups , the benefit appeared to be strongest in patients who were enrolled because of peripheral vascular disease ( especially those who also had a history of myocardial infarction ) and weaker in stroke patients .
In patients who were enrolled in the trial on the sole basis of a recent myocardial infarction , PLAVIX was not numerically superior to aspirin .
In the meta - analyses of studies of aspirin vs . placebo in patients similar to those in CAPRIE , aspirin was associated with a reduced incidence of thrombotic events .
There was a suggestion of heterogeneity in these studies too , with the effect strongest in patients with a history of myocardial infarction , weaker in patients with a history of stroke , and not discernible in patients with a history of peripheral vascular disease .
With respect to the inferred comparison of PLAVIX to placebo , there is no indication of heterogeneity .
Acute Coronary SyndromeThe CURE study included 12 , 562 patients with acute coronary syndrome without ST segment elevation ( unstable angina or non - Q - wave myocardial infarction ) and presenting within 24 hours of onset of the most recent episode of chest pain or symptoms consistent with ischemia .
Patients were required to have either ECG changes compatible with new ischemia ( without ST segment elevation ) or elevated cardiac enzymes or troponin I or T to at least twice the upper limit of normal .
The patient population was largely Caucasian ( 82 % ) and included 38 % women , and 52 % patients ≥ 65 years of age .
Patients were randomized to receive PLAVIX ( 300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg / day ) or placebo , and were treated for up to one year .
Patients also received aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) and other standard therapies such as heparin .
The use of GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors was not permitted for three days prior to randomization .
The number of patients experiencing the primary outcome ( CV death , MI , or stroke ) was 582 ( 9 . 30 % ) in the PLAVIX - treated group and 719 ( 11 . 41 % ) in the placebo - treated group , a 20 % relative risk reduction ( 95 % CI of 10 % – 28 % ; p = 0 . 00009 ) for the PLAVIX - treated group ( see Table 3 ) .
At the end of 12 months , the number of patients experiencing the co - primary outcome ( CV death , MI , stroke or refractory ischemia ) was 1035 ( 16 . 54 % ) in the PLAVIX - treated group and 1187 ( 18 . 83 % ) in the placebo - treated group , a 14 % relative risk reduction ( 95 % CI of 6 % – 21 % , p = 0 . 0005 ) for the PLAVIX - treated group ( see Table 3 ) .
In the PLAVIX - treated group , each component of the two primary endpoints ( CV death , MI , stroke , refractory ischemia ) occurred less frequently than in the placebo - treated group .
The benefits of PLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) were maintained throughout the course of the trial ( up to 12 months ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CHART 2 In CURE , the use of PLAVIX was associated with a lower incidence of CV death , MI or stroke in patient populations with different characteristics , as shown in Figure 3 .
The benefits associated with PLAVIX were independent of the use of other acute and long - term cardiovascular therapies , including heparin / LMWH ( low molecular weight heparin ) , IV glycoprotein IIb / IIIa ( GPIIb / IIIa ) inhibitors , lipid - lowering drugs , beta - blockers , and ACE - inhibitors .
The efficacy of PLAVIX was observed independently of the dose of aspirin ( 75 – 325 mg once daily ) .
The use of oral anticoagulants , non - study anti - platelet drugs and chronic NSAIDs was not allowed in CURE .
The use of PLAVIX in CURE was associated with a decrease in the use of thrombolytic therapy ( 71 patients [ 1 . 1 % ] in the PLAVIX group , 126 patients [ 2 . 0 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 43 % , P = 0 . 0001 ) , and GPIIb / IIIa inhibitors ( 369 patients [ 5 . 9 % ] in the PLAVIX group , 454 patients [ 7 . 2 % ] in the placebo group , relative risk reduction of 18 % , P = 0 . 003 ) .
The use of PLAVIX in CURE did not impact the number of patients treated with CABG or PCI ( with or without stenting ) , ( 2253 patients [ 36 . 0 % ] in the PLAVIX group , 2324 patients [ 36 . 9 % ] in the placebo group ; relative risk reduction of 4 . 0 % , P = 0 . 1658 ) .
In patients with ST - segment elevation acute myocardial infarction , safety and efficacy of clopidogrel have been evaluated in two randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind studies , COMMIT - a large outcome study conducted in China - and CLARITY - a supportive study of a surrogate endpoint conducted internationally .
The randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , 2 × 2 factorial design COMMIT trial included 45 , 852 patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of the symptoms of suspected myocardial infarction with supporting ECG abnormalities ( i . e . , ST elevation , ST depression or left bundle - branch block ) .
Patients were randomized to receive PLAVIX ( 75 mg / day ) or placebo , in combination with aspirin ( 162 mg / day ) , for 28 days or until hospital discharge whichever came first .
The co - primary endpoints were death from any cause and the first occurrence of re - infarction , stroke or death .
The patient population included 28 % women , 58 % patients ≥ 60 years ( 26 % patients ≥ 70 years ) and 55 % patients who received thrombolytics , 68 % received ace - inhibitors , and only 3 % had percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) .
As shown in Table 4 and Figures 4 and 5 below , PLAVIX significantly reduced the relative risk of death from any cause by 7 % ( p = 0 . 029 ) , and the relative risk of the combination of re - infarction , stroke or death by 9 % ( p = 0 . 002 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CHART 3 The effect of PLAVIX did not differ significantly in various pre - specified subgroups as shown in Figure 6 .
Additionally , the effect was similar in non - prespecified subgroups including those based on infarct location , Killip class or prior MI history ( see Figure 7 ) .
Such subgroup analyses should be interpreted very cautiously .
The randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled CLARITY trial included 3 , 491 patients , 5 % U . S . , presenting within 12 hours of the onset of a ST elevation myocardial infarction and planned for thrombolytic therapy .
Patients were randomized to receive PLAVIX ( 300 - mg loading dose , followed by 75 mg / day ) or placebo until angiography , discharge , or Day 8 .
Patients also received aspirin ( 150 to 325 mg as a loading dose , followed by 75 to 162 mg / day ) , a fibrinolytic agent and , when appropriate , heparin for 48 hours .
The patients were followed for 30 days .
The primary endpoint was the occurrence of the composite of an occluded infarct - related artery ( defined as TIMI Flow Grade 0 or 1 ) on the predischarge angiogram , or death or recurrent myocardial infarction by the time of the start of coronary angiography .
The patient population was mostly Caucasian ( 89 . 5 % ) and included 19 . 7 % women and 29 . 2 % patients ≥ 65 years .
A total of 99 . 7 % of patients received fibrinolytics ( fibrin specific : 68 . 7 % , non - fibrin specific : 31 . 1 % ) , 89 . 5 % heparin , 78 . 7 % beta - blockers , 54 . 7 % ACE inhibitors and 63 % statins .
The number of patients who reached the primary endpoint was 262 ( 15 . 0 % ) in the PLAVIX - treated group and 377 ( 21 . 7 % ) in the placebo group , but most of the events related to the surrogate endpoint of vessel patency .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGEPLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) is indicated for the reduction of atherothrombotic events as follows : • Recent MI , Recent Stroke or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease For patients with a history of recent myocardial infarction ( MI ) , recent stroke , or established peripheral arterial disease , PLAVIX has been shown to reduce the rate of a combined endpoint of new ischemic stroke ( fatal or not ) , new MI ( fatal or not ) , and other vascular death .
• Acute Coronary Syndrome - For patients with non - ST - segment elevation acute coronary syndrome ( unstable angina / non - Q - wave MI ) including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with percutaneous coronary intervention ( with or without stent ) or CABG , PLAVIX has been shown to decrease the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , MI , or stroke as well as the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death , MI , stroke , or refractory ischemia .
- For patients with ST - segment elevation acute myocardial infarction , PLAVIX has been shown to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of death , re - infarction or stroke .
This benefit is not known to pertain to patients who receive primary angioplasty CONTRAINDICATIONSThe use of PLAVIX is contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to the drug substance or any component of the product .
Active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage .
WARNINGSReduced effectiveness due to impaired CYP2C19 functionThe inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite .
Clopidogrel is metabolized to this active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
This metabolism can be impaired by genetic variations in CYP2C19 and by concomitant medications that interfere with CYP2C19 .
Avoid use of PLAVIX in patients with impaired CYP2C19 function due to known genetic variation or due to drugs that inhibit CYP2C19 activity .
Genetic variationsPatients with genetically reduced CYP2C19 function have diminished antiplatelet responses and generally exhibit higher cardiovascular event rates following myocardial infarction than do patients with normal CYP2C19 function ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacogenetics ) .
Drug interactionsCo - administration of PLAVIX with omeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor that is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 , reduces the pharmacological activity of PLAVIX if given concomitantly or if given 12 hours apart .
There is no evidence that other drugs that reduce stomach acid , such as most H2 blockers ( except cimetidine , which is a CYP2C19 inhibitor ) or antacids interfere with the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) TTP has been reported rarely following use of PLAVIX , sometimes after a short exposure ( less than 2 weeks ) .
TTP is a serious condition that can be fatal and requires urgent treatment including plasmapheresis ( plasma exchange ) .
It is characterized by thrombocytopenia , microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( schistocytes [ fragmented RBCs ] seen on peripheral smear ) , neurological findings , renal dysfunction , and fever .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
PRECAUTIONSGeneral : PLAVIX prolongs the bleeding time and therefore should be used with caution in patients who may be at risk of increased bleeding from trauma , surgery , or other pathological conditions ( particularly gastrointestinal and intraocular ) .
If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and an antiplatelet effect is not desired , PLAVIX should be discontinued 5 days prior to surgery .
Due to the risk of bleeding and undesirable hematological effects , blood cell count determination and / or other appropriate testing should be promptly considered , whenever such suspected clinical symptoms arise during the course of treatment ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In patients with recent TIA or stroke who are at high risk of recurrent ischemic events , the combination of aspirin and PLAVIX has not been shown to be more effective than PLAVIX alone , but the combination has been shown to increase major bleeding .
GI Bleeding : In CAPRIE , PLAVIX was associated with a rate of gastrointestinal bleeding of 2 . 0 % , vs . 2 . 7 % on aspirin .
In CURE , the incidence of major gastrointestinal bleeding was 1 . 3 % vs . 0 . 7 % ( PLAVIX + aspirin vs . placebo + aspirin , respectively ) .
PLAVIX should be used with caution in patients who have lesions with a propensity to bleed ( such as ulcers ) .
Drugs that might induce such lesions should be used with caution in patients taking PLAVIX .
Use in Hepatically - Impaired Patients : Experience is limited in patients with severe hepatic disease , who may have bleeding diatheses .
PLAVIX should be used with caution in this population .
Use in Renally - Impaired Patients : Experience is limited in patients with severe renal impairment .
PLAVIX should be used with caution in this population .
ADVERSE REACTIONSPLAVIX has been evaluated for safety in more than 42 , 000 patients , including over 9 , 000 patients treated for 1 year or more .
The clinically important adverse events observed in CAPRIE , CURE , CLARITY and COMMIT are discussed below .
The overall tolerability of PLAVIX in CAPRIE was similar to that of aspirin regardless of age , gender and race , with an approximately equal incidence ( 13 % ) of patients withdrawing from treatment because of adverse reactions .
HemorrhagicIn CAPRIE patients receiving PLAVIX , gastrointestinal hemorrhage occurred at a rate of 2 . 0 % , and required hospitalization in 0 . 7 % .
In patients receiving aspirin , the corresponding rates were 2 . 7 % and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage was 0 . 4 % for PLAVIX compared to 0 . 5 % for aspirin .
In CURE , PLAVIX use with aspirin was associated with an increase in bleeding compared to placebo with aspirin ( see Table 6 ) .
There was an excess in major bleeding in patients receiving PLAVIX plus aspirin compared with placebo plus aspirin , primarily gastrointestinal and at puncture sites .
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage ( 0 . 1 % ) , and fatal bleeding ( 0 . 2 % ) , were the same in both groups .
The overall incidence of bleeding is described in Table 6 for patients receiving both PLAVIX and aspirin in CURE .
Ninety - two percent ( 92 % ) of the patients in the CURE study received heparin / LMWH , and the rate of bleeding in these patients was similar to the overall results .
There was no excess in major bleeds within seven days after coronary bypass graft surgery in patients who stopped therapy more than five days prior to surgery ( event rate 4 . 4 % PLAVIX + aspirin ; 5 . 3 % placebo + aspirin ) .
In patients who remained on therapy within five days of bypass graft surgery , the event rate was 9 . 6 % for PLAVIX + aspirin , and 6 . 3 % for placebo + aspirin .
In CLARITY , the incidence of major bleeding ( defined as intracranial bleeding or bleeding associated with a fall in hemoglobin great than 5 g / dL ) was similar between groups ( 1 . 3 % versus 1 . 1 % in the PLAVIX + aspirin and in the placebo + aspirin groups , respectively ) .
This was consistent across subgroups of patients defined by baseline characteristics , and type of fibrinolytics or heparin therapy .
The incidence of fatal bleeding ( 0 . 8 % versus 0 . 6 % in the PLAVIX + aspirin and in the placebo + aspirin groups , respectively ) and intracranial hemorrhage ( 0 . 5 % versus 0 . 7 % , respectively ) was low and similar in both groups .
The overall rate of noncerebral major bleeding or cerebral bleeding in COMMIT was low and similar in both groups as shown in Table 7 below Adverse events occurring in greater than or equal to 2 . 5 % of patients on PLAVIX in the CAPRIE controlled clinical trial are shown below regardless of relationship to PLAVIX .
The median duration of therapy was 20 months , with a maximum of 3 years No additional clinically relevant events to those observed in CAPRIE with a frequency greater than or equal to 2 . 5 % , have been reported during the CURE and CLARITY controlled studies .
COMMIT collected only limited safety data .
Other adverse experiences of potential importance occurring in 1 % to 2 . 5 % of patients receiving PLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) in the controlled clinical trials are listed below regardless of relationship to PLAVIX .
In general , the incidence of these events was similar to that in patients receiving aspirin ( in CAPRIE ) or placebo + aspirin ( in the other clinical trials ) .
Autonomic Nervous System Disorders : Syncope , Palpitation .
Body as a Whole - general disorders : Asthenia , Fever , Hernia .
Cardiovascular disorders : Cardiac failure .
Central and peripheral nervous system disorders : Cramps legs , Hypoaesthesia , Neuralgia , Paraesthesia , Vertigo .
Gastrointestinal system disorders : Constipation , Vomiting .
Heart rate and rhythm disorders : Fibrillation atrial .
Liver and biliary system disorders : Hepatic enzymes increased .
Metabolic and nutritional disorders : Gout , hyperuricemia , non - protein nitrogen ( NPN ) increased .
Musculo - skeletal system disorders : Arthritis , Arthrosis .
Platelet , bleeding and clotting disorders : GI hemorrhage , hematoma , platelets decreased .
Psychiatric disorders : Anxiety , Insomnia .
Red blood cell disorders : Anemia .
Respiratory system disorders : Pneumonia , Sinusitis .
Skin and appendage disorders : Eczema , Skin ulceration .
Urinary system disorders : Cystitis .
Vision disorders : Cataract , Conjunctivitis .
Other potentially serious adverse events which may be of clinical interest but were rarely reported ( less than 1 % ) in patients who received PLAVIX in the controlled clinical trials are listed below regardless of relationship to PLAVIX .
In general , the incidence of these events was similar to that in patients receiving aspirin ( in CAPRIE ) or placebo + aspirin ( in the other clinical trials ) .
Body as a whole : Allergic reaction , necrosis ischemic .
Cardiovascular disorders : Edema generalized .
Gastrointestinal system disorders : Peptic , gastric or duodenal ulcer , gastritis , gastric ulcer perforated , gastritis hemorrhagic , upper GI ulcer hemorrhagic .
Liver and Biliary system disorders : Bilirubinemia , hepatitis infectious , liver fatty .
Platelet , bleeding and clotting disorders : hemarthrosis , hematuria , hemoptysis , hemorrhage intracranial , hemorrhage retroperitoneal , hemorrhage of operative wound , ocular hemorrhage , pulmonary hemorrhage , purpura allergic , thrombocytopenia .
Red blood cell disorders : Anemia aplastic , anemia hypochromic .
Reproductive disorders , female : Menorrhagia .
Respiratory system disorders : Hemothorax .
Skin and appendage disorders : Bullous eruption , rash erythematous , rash maculopapular , urticaria .
Urinary system disorders : Abnormal renal function , acute renal failure .
White cell and reticuloendothelial system disorders : Agranulocytosis , granulocytopenia , leukemia , leukopenia , neutropenia .
Postmarketing ExperienceThe following events have been reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience : • Body as a whole : - hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactoid reactions , serum sickness • Central and Peripheral Nervous System disorders : - confusion , hallucinations , taste disorders • Hepato - biliary disorders : - abnormal liver function test , hepatitis ( non - infectious ) , acute liver failure • Platelet , Bleeding and Clotting disorders : - cases of bleeding with fatal outcome ( especially intracranial , gastrointestinal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage ) - thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( TTP ) – some cases with fatal outcome – ( see WARNINGS ) - agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia / pancytopenia - conjunctival , ocular and retinal bleeding • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : - bronchospasm , interstitial pneumonitis • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : - angioedema , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , lichen planus • Renal and urinary disorders : - glomerulopathy , increased creatinine levels • Vascular disorders : - vasculitis , hypotension • Gastrointestinal disorders : - colitis ( including ulcerative or lymphocytic colitis ) , pancreatitis , stomatitis • Musculoskeletal , connective tissue and bone disorders : - myalgia OVERDOSAGEOverdose following clopidogrel administration may lead to prolonged bleeding time and subsequent bleeding complications .
A single oral dose of clopidogrel at 1500 or 2000 mg / kg was lethal to mice and to rats and at 3000 mg / kg to baboons .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were vomiting ( in baboons ) , prostration , difficult breathing , and gastrointestinal hemorrhage in all species .
Recommendations About Specific TreatmentBased on biological plausibility , platelet transfusion may be appropriate to reverse the pharmacological effects of PLAVIX if quick reversal is required .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONRecent MI , Recent Stroke , or Established Peripheral Arterial DiseaseThe recommended daily dose of PLAVIX is 75 mg once daily .
Acute Coronary SyndromeFor patients with non - ST - segment elevation acute coronary syndrome ( unstable angina / non - Q - wave MI ) , PLAVIX should be initiated with a single 300 - mg loading dose and then continued at 75 mg once daily .
Aspirin ( 75 mg - 325 mg once daily ) should be initiated and continued in combination with PLAVIX .
In CURE , most patients with Acute Coronary Syndrome also received heparin acutely ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
For patients with ST - segment elevation acute myocardial infarction , the recommended dose of PLAVIX is 75 mg once daily , administered in combination with aspirin , with or without thrombolytics .
PLAVIX may be initiated with or without a loading dose ( 300 mg was used in CLARITY ; see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
PharmacogeneticsCYP2C19 poor metabolizer status is associated with diminished response to clopidogrel .
The optimal dose regimen for poor metabolizers has yet to be determined .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacogenetics . )
No dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients or patients with renal disease .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations . )
HOW SUPPLIEDPLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) 75 - mg tablets are available as pink , round , biconvex , film - coated tablets debossed with " 75 " on one side and " 1171 " on the other .
Tablets are provided as follows : NDC 63653 - 1171 - 6 bottles of 30 NDC 63653 - 1171 - 1 bottles of 90 NDC 63653 - 1171 - 5 bottles of 500 NDC 63653 - 1171 - 3 blisters of 100 PLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) 300 - mg tablets are available as pink , oblong , film - coated tablets debossed with " 300 " on one side and " 1332 " on the other .
Tablets are provided as follows : NDC 63653 - 1332 - 2 unit - dose packages of 30 NDC 63653 - 1332 - 3 unit - dose packages of 100 StorageStore at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed by : Bristol - Myers Squibb / Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Partnership Bridgewater , NJ 08807 PLAVIX ® is a registered trademark .
Revised October 2009 Principal Display Panel - 75 mg Carton List No . 1171 - 30 NDC 63653 - 1171 - 3 100 tablets Plavix ® ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) 75 mg Rx only Information for Patients Patients should be told that while taking PLAVIX or PLAVIX combined with aspirin : * it may take them longer than usual to stop bleeding ; * they may bruise and / or bleed more easily ; * they should report any unusual bleeding to their physician ; * they should tell their physician about any other medications they are taking , including prescription or over - the - counter omeprazole ; * they should inform physicians and dentists that they are taking PLAVIX and / or any other product known to affect bleeding before any surgery is scheduled and before any new drug is taken .
Drug Interactions Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition .
Avoid concomitant use of drugs that inhibit CYP2C19 , including omeprazole , esomeprazole , cimetidine , fluconazole , ketoconazole , voriconazole , etravirine , felbamate , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , and ticlopidine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Studies of specific drug interactions yielded the following results : Omeprazole In a crossover clinical study , 72 healthy subjects were administered PLAVIX ( 300 - mg loading dose followed by 75 mg / day ) alone and with omeprazole ( 80 mg at the same time as PLAVIX ) for 5 days .
The exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel was decreased by 46 % ( Day 1 ) and 42 % ( Day 5 ) when PLAVIX and omeprazole were administered together .
Mean inhibition of platelet aggregation ( IPA ) was diminished by 47 % ( 24 hours ) and 30 % ( Day 5 ) when PLAVIX and omeprazole were administered together .
In another study 72 healthy subjects were given the same doses of PLAVIX and omeprazole but the drugs were administered 12 hours apart ; the results were similar indicating that administering PLAVIX and omeprazole at different times does not prevent their interaction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Aspirin Aspirin did not modify the clopidogrel - mediated inhibition of ADP - induced platelet aggregation .
Concomitant administration of 500 mg of aspirin twice a day for 1 day did not significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by PLAVIX .
PLAVIX potentiated the effect of aspirin on collagen - induced platelet aggregation .
PLAVIX and aspirin have been administered together for up to one year .
Heparin In a study in healthy volunteers , PLAVIX did not necessitate modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation .
Coadministration of heparin had no effect on inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by PLAVIX .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) In healthy volunteers receiving naproxen , concomitant administration of PLAVIX was associated with increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss .
NSAIDs and PLAVIX should be coadministered with caution .
Warfarin Because of the increased risk of bleeding , the concomitant administration of warfarin with PLAVIX should be undertaken with caution .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
Other Concomitant Therapy No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when PLAVIX was coadministered with atenolol , nifedipine , or both atenolol and nifedipine .
The pharmacodynamic activity of PLAVIX was also not significantly influenced by the coadministration of phenobarbital or estrogen .
The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophylline were not modified by the coadministration of PLAVIX ( clopidogrel bisulfate ) .
At high concentrations in vitro , clopidogrel inhibits P450 ( 2C9 ) .
Accordingly , PLAVIX may interfere with the metabolism of phenytoin , tamoxifen , tolbutamide , warfarin , torsemide , fluvastatin , and many non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents , but there are no data with which to predict the magnitude of these interactions .
Caution should be used when any of these drugs is coadministered with PLAVIX .
In addition to the above specific interaction studies , patients entered into clinical trials with PLAVIX received a variety of concomitant medications including diuretics , beta - blocking agents , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , calcium antagonists , cholesterol lowering agents , coronary vasodilators , antidiabetic agents ( including insulin ) , thrombolytics , heparins ( unfractionated and LMWH ) , GPIIb / IIIa antagonists , antiepileptic agents and hormone replacement therapy without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions .
There are no data on the concomitant use of oral anticoagulants , non study oral anti - platelet drugs and chronic NSAIDs with clopidogrel .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of tumorigenicity when clopidogrel was administered for 78 weeks to mice and 104 weeks to rats at dosages up to 77 mg / kg per day , which afforded plasma exposures > 25 times that in humans at the recommended daily dose of 75 mg .
Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in four in vitro tests ( Ames test , DNA - repair test in rat hepatocytes , gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , and metaphase chromosome analysis of human lymphocytes ) and in one in vivo test ( micronucleus test by oral route in mice ) .
Clopidogrel was found to have no effect on fertility of male and female rats at oral doses up to 400 mg / kg per day ( 52 times the recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 500 and 300 mg / kg / day ( respectively , 65 and 78 times the recommended daily human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or fetotoxicity due to clopidogrel .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of a human response , PLAVIX should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Studies in rats have shown that clopidogrel and / or its metabolites are excreted in the milk .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in the CAPRIE , CURE and CLARITY controlled clinical studies , approximately 50 % of patients treated with PLAVIX were 65 years of age and older , and 15 % were 75 years and older .
In COMMIT , approximately 58 % of the patients treated with PLAVIX were 60 years and older , 26 % of whom were 70 years and older .
The observed risk of thrombotic events with clopidogrel plus aspirin versus placebo plus aspirin by age category is provided in Figures 3 and 6 for the CURE and COMMIT trials , respectively ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
The observed risk of bleeding events with clopidogrel plus aspirin versus placebo plus aspirin by age category is provided in Tables 6 and 7 for the CURE and COMMIT trials , respectively ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
