[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in famotidine tablets , USP is a histamine H - receptor antagonist .
Famotidine is N ’ ( aminosulfonyl ) - 3 - [ [ [ 2 - [ ( diaminomethylene ) amino ] - 4 - thiazolyl ] methyl ] thio ] propanimidamide .
The molecular formula of famotidine is C H N O S and its molecular weight is 337 . 45 .
Its structural formula is : 2815723 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Famotidine is a white to pale yellow crystalline compound that is freely soluble in glacial acetic acid , slightly soluble in methanol , very slightly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Each tablet for oral administration contains either 20 mg or 40 mg of famotidine and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , Opadry OY 52945 Yellow , pregelatinized starch and talc .
The composition of Opadry OY 52945 Yellow , used for film coating of famotidine tablets , is as follows : hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 , synthetic yellow iron oxide and titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS GI Effects Famotidine is a competitive inhibitor of histamine H receptors .
The primary clinically important pharmacologic activity of famotidine is inhibition of gastric secretion .
Both the acid concentration and volume of gastric secretion are suppressed by famotidine , while changes in pepsin secretion are proportional to volume output .
2 In normal volunteers and hypersecretors , famotidine inhibited basal and nocturnal gastric secretion , as well as secretion stimulated by food and pentagastrin .
After oral administration , the onset of the antisecretory effect occurred within one hour ; the maximum effect was dose - dependent , occurring within one to three hours .
Duration of inhibition of secretion by doses of 20 and 40 mg was 10 to 12 hours .
Single evening oral doses of 20 and 40 mg inhibited basal and nocturnal acid secretion in all subjects ; mean nocturnal gastric acid secretion was inhibited by 86 % and 94 % , respectively , for a period of at least 10 hours .
The same doses given in the morning suppressed food - stimulated acid secretion in all subjects .
The mean suppression was 76 % and 84 % , respectively , 3 to 5 hours after administration , and 25 % and 30 % , respectively , 8 to 10 hours after administration .
In some subjects who received the 20 mg dose , however , the antisecretory effect was dissipated within 6 - 8 hours .
There was no cumulative effect with repeated doses .
The nocturnal intragastric pH was raised by evening doses of 20 and 40 mg of famotidine to mean values of 5 and 6 . 4 , respectively .
When famotidine was given after breakfast , the basal daytime interdigestive pH at 3 and 8 hours after 20 or 40 mg of famotidine was raised to about 5 .
Famotidine had little or no effect on fasting or postprandial serum gastrin levels .
Gastric emptying and exocrine pancreatic function were not affected by famotidine .
Other Effects Systemic effects of famotidine in the CNS , cardiovascular , respiratory or endocrine systems were not noted in clinical pharmacology studies .
Also , no antiandrogenic effects were noted .
( See ) Serum hormone levels , including prolactin , cortisol , thyroxine ( T ) , and testosterone , were not altered after treatment with famotidine .
.
ADVERSE REACTIONS4 Pharmacokinetics Famotidine is incompletely absorbed .
The bioavailability of oral doses is 40 - 45 % .
Famotidine tablets USP and famotidine for Oral Suspension are bioequivalent .
Bioavailability may be slightly increased by food , or slightly decreased by antacids ; however , these effects are of no clinical consequence .
Famotidine undergoes minimal first - pass metabolism .
After oral doses , peak plasma levels occur in 1 - 3 hours .
Plasma levels after multiple doses are similar to those after single doses .
Fifteen to 20 % of famotidine in plasma is protein bound .
Famotidine has an elimination half - life of 2 . 5 - 3 . 5 hours .
Famotidine is eliminated by renal ( 65 - 70 % ) and metabolic ( 30 - 35 % ) routes .
Renal clearance is 250 - 450 mL / min , indicating some tubular excretion .
Twenty - five to 30 % of an oral dose and 65 - 70 % of an intravenous dose are recovered in the urine as unchanged compound .
The only metabolite identified in man is the S - oxide .
There is a close relationship between creatinine clearance values and the elimination half - life of famotidine .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency , i . e . , creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min , the elimination half - life of famotidine may exceed 20 hours and adjustment of dose or dosing intervals in moderate and severe renal insufficiency may be necessary ( see ) , PRECAUTIONSDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
In elderly patients , there are no clinically significant age - related changes in the pharmacokinetics of famotidine .
However , in elderly patients with decreased renal function , the clearance of the drug may be decreased ( see ) .
PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use CLINICAL STUDIES Duodenal UlcerIn a U . S . multicenter , double - blind study in outpatients with endoscopically confirmed duodenal ulcer , orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo .
As shown in Table 1 , 70 % of patients treated with famotidine 40 mg h . s . were healed by week 4 .
Table 1 : Outpatients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Duodenal Ulcers Famotidine 40 mg h . s ( N = 89 ) Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ( N = 84 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 97 ) Week 2 32 % * 38 % * 17 % Week 4 70 % * 67 % * 31 % Statistically significantly different than placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) * Patients not healed by week 4 were continued in the study .
By week 8 , 83 % of patients treated with famotidine had healed versus 45 % of patients treated with placebo .
The incidence of ulcer healing with famotidine was significantly higher than with placebo at each time point based on proportion of endoscopically confirmed healed ulcers .
In this study , time to relief of daytime and nocturnal pain was significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; patients receiving famotidine also took less antacid than the patients receiving placebo .
Long - Term Maintenance Treatment of Duodenal Ulcers Famotidine , 20 mg p . o . h . s . was compared to placebo h . s . as maintenance therapy in two double - blind , multicenter studies of patients with endoscopically confirmed healed duodenal ulcers .
In the U . S . study the observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in patients treated with placebo was 2 . 4 times greater than in the patients treated with famotidine .
The 89 patients treated with famotidine had a cumulative observed ulcer incidence of 23 . 4 % compared to an observed ulcer incidence of 56 . 6 % in the 89 patients receiving placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
These results were confirmed in an international study where the cumulative observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in the 307 patients treated with famotidine was 35 . 7 % , compared to an incidence of 75 . 5 % in the 325 patients treated with placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Gastric Ulcer In both a U . S . and an international multicenter , double - blind study in patients with endoscopically confirmed active benign gastric ulcer , orally administered famotidine , 40 mg h . s . , was compared to placebo h . s . Antacids were permitted during the studies , but consumption was not significantly different between the famotidine and placebo groups .
As shown in Table 2 , the incidence of ulcer healing ( dropouts counted as unhealed ) with famotidine was statistically significantly better than placebo at weeks 6 and 8 in the U . S . study , and at weeks 4 , 6 and 8 in the international study , based on the number of ulcers that healed , confirmed by endoscopy .
Table 2 : Patients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Gastric Ulcers U . S . Study International Study Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 74 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 75 ) Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 149 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 145 ) Week 4 45 % 39 % 47 % * 31 % Week 6 66 % * 44 % 65 % * 46 % Week 8 78 % † 64 % 80 % * 54 % Statistically significantly better than placebo ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) * Statistically significantly better than placebo ( p ≤ 0 . 05 ) † Time to complete relief of daytime and nighttime pain was statistically significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; however , in neither study was there a statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients whose pain was relieved by the end of the study ( week 8 ) .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo in a U . S . study that enrolled patients with symptoms of GERD and without endoscopic evidence of erosion or ulceration of the esophagus .
Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . was statistically significantly superior to 40 mg h . s . and to placebo in providing a successful symptomatic outcome , defined as moderate or excellent improvement of symptoms ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : % Successful Symptomatic Outcome Famotidine .
( N = 154 ) 20 mg b . i . d Famotidine ( N = 149 ) 40 mg h . s . ( N = 73 ) Placebo Week 6 82 * 69 62 p ≤ 0 . 01 vs Placebo * By two weeks of treatment symptomatic success was observed in a greater percentage of patients taking famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . compared to placebo ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) .
Symptomatic improvement and healing of endoscopically verified erosion and ulceration were studied in two additional trials .
Healing was defined as complete resolution of all erosions or ulcerations visible with endoscopy .
The U . S . study comparing famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . to placebo and famotidine 20 mg p . o . b . i . d . showed a significantly greater percentage of healing for famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at weeks 6 and 12 ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : % Endoscopic Healing - U . S . Study Famotidine ( N = 127 ) 40 mg b . i . d . Famotidine ( N = 125 ) 20 mg b . i . d ( N = 66 ) Placebo Week 6 48 * , † 32 18 Week 12 69 * , ‡ 54 * 29 p ≤ 0 . 01 vs Placebo * p ≤ 0 . 01 vs famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . † p ≤ 0 . 05 vs famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ‡ As compared to placebo , patients who received famotidine had faster relief of daytime and nighttime heartburn and a greater percentage of patients experienced complete relief of nighttime heartburn .
These differences were statistically significant .
In the international study , when famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . , was compared to ranitidine 150 mg p . o . b . i . d . , a statistically significantly greater percentage of healing was observed with famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at week 12 ( Table 5 ) .
There was , however , no significant difference among treatments in symptom relief .
Table 5 : % Endoscopic Healing - International Study Famotidine .
( N = 175 ) 40 mg b . i . d Famotidine ( N = 93 ) 20 mg b . i . d Ranitidine ( N = 172 ) 150 mg b . i . d Week 6 48 52 42 Week 12 71 * 68 60 p ≤ 0 . 05 vs Ranitidine 150 mg b . i . d . * Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) In studies of patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions such as Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome with or without multiple endocrine adenomas , famotidine significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion and controlled associated symptoms .
Orally administered doses from 20 to 160 mg q 6 h maintained basal acid secretion below 10 mEq / hr ; initial doses were titrated to the individual patient need and subsequent adjustments were necessary with time in some patients .
Famotidine was well tolerated at these high dose levels for prolonged periods ( greater than 12 months ) in eight patients , and there were no cases reported of gynecomastia , increased prolactin levels , or impotence which were considered to be due to the drug .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYIN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Pharmacokinetics Table 6 presents pharmacokinetic data from clinical trials and a published study in pediatric patients ( < 1 year of age ; N = 27 ) given famotidine I . V . 0 . 5 mg / kg and from published studies of small numbers of pediatric patients ( 1 - 15 years of age ) given famotidine intravenously .
Areas under the curve ( AUCs ) are normalized to a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg I . V . for pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age and compared with an extrapolated 40 mg intravenous dose in adults ( extrapolation based on results obtained with a 20 mg I . V . adult dose ) .
Table 6 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Intravenous Famotidine * Age ( N = number of patients ) Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) ( ng - hr / mL ) Total Clearance ( Cl ) ( L / hr / kg ) Volume of Distribution ( V ) ( L / kg ) d Elimination Half - life ( T ) ( hours ) 1 / 2 0 - 1 month ( N = 10 ) † NA 0 . 13 ± 0 . 06 1 . 4 ± 0 . 4 10 . 5 ± 5 . 4 0 - 3 months ( N = 6 ) ‡ 2688 ± 847 0 . 21 ± 0 . 06 1 . 8 ± 0 . 3 8 . 1 ± 3 . 5 > 3 - 12 months ( N = 11 ) ‡ 1160 ± 474 0 . 49 ± 0 . 17 2 . 3 ± 0 . 7 4 . 5 ± 1 . 1 1 - 11 yrs ( N = 20 ) 1089 ± 834 0 . 54 ± 0 . 34 2 . 07 ± 1 . 49 3 . 38 ± 2 . 6 11 - 15 yrs ( N = 6 ) 1140 ± 320 0 . 48 ± 0 . 14 1 . 5 ± 0 . 4 2 . 3 ± 0 . 4 Adult ( N = 16 ) 1726 § 0 . 39 ± 0 . 14 1 . 3 ± 0 . 2 2 . 83 ± 0 . 99 Values are presented as means ± SD unless indicated otherwise .
* Single center study .
† Multicenter study .
‡ Mean value only .
§ Plasma clearance is reduced and elimination half - life is prolonged in pediatric patients 0 - 3 months of age compared to older pediatric patients .
The pharmacokinetic parameters for pediatric patients , ages > 3 months - 15 years , are comparable to those obtained for adults .
Bioavailability studies of 8 pediatric patients ( 11 - 15 years of age ) showed a mean oral bioavailability of 0 . 5 compared to adult values of 0 . 42 to 0 . 49 .
Oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg achieved AUCs of 645 ± 249 ng - hr / mL and 580 ± 60 ng - hr / mL in pediatric patients < 1 year of age ( N = 5 ) and in pediatric patients 11 - 15 years of age , respectively , compared to 482 ± 181 ng - hr / mL in adults treated with 40 mg orally .
Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of famotidine were evaluated in 5 pediatric patients 2 - 13 years of age using the sigmoid E model .
These data suggest that the relationship between serum concentration of famotidine and gastric acid suppression is similar to that observed in one study of adults ( Table 7 ) .
max Table 7 : Pharmacodynamics of famotidine using the sigmoid E model max EC ( ng / mL ) 50 * Pediatric Patients 26 ± 13 Data from one study a ) healthy adult subjects 26 . 5 ± 10 . 3 b ) adult patients with upper GI bleeding 18 . 7 ± 10 . 8 Serum concentration of famotidine associated with 50 % maximum gastric acid reduction .
Values are presented as means + SD .
* Five published studies ( Table 8 ) examined the effect of famotidine on gastric pH and duration of acid suppression in pediatric patients .
While each study had a different design , acid suppression data over time are summarized as follows : Table 8 Dosage Route Effect * ) Number of Patients ( age range 0 . 5 mg / kg , single dose I . V gastric pH > 4 for 19 . 5 hours ( 17 . 3 , 21 . 8 ) † 11 ( 5 - 19 days ) 0 . 3 mg / kg , single dose I . V gastric pH > 3 . 5 for 8 . 7 + 4 . 7 hours ‡ 6 ( 2 - 7 years ) 0 . 4 - 0 . 8 mg / kg I . V gastric pH > 4 for 6 - 9 hours 18 ( 2 - 69 months ) 0 . 5 mg / kg , single dose I . V a > 2 pH unit increase above baseline in gastric pH for > 8 hours 9 ( 2 - 13 years ) 0 . 5 mg / kg b . i . d I . V . gastric pH > 5 for 13 . 5 + 1 . 8 hours ‡ 4 ( 6 - 15 years ) 0 . 5 mg / kg b . i . d . oral gastric pH > 5 for 5 + 1 . 1 hours ‡ 4 ( 11 - 15 years ) values reported in published literature .
* Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) .
† Means + SD .
‡ The duration of effect of famotidine I . V . 0 . 5 mg / kg on gastric pH and acid suppression was shown in one study to be longer in pediatric patients < 1 month of age than in older pediatric patients .
This longer duration of gastric acid suppression is consistent with the decreased clearance in pediatric patients < 3 months of age ( see ) .
Table 6 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Famotidine is indicated in : 1 .
Most adult patients heal within 4 weeks ; there is rarely reason to use famotidine at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks .
Short - term treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
2 .
Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year .
Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer .
3 .
Most adult patients heal within 6 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety or efficacy of famotidine in uncomplicated active benign gastric ulcer for periods of more than 8 weeks .
Short - term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
4 .
Famotidine is indicated for short - term treatment of patients with symptoms of GERD ( see Famotidine is also indicated for the short - term treatment of esophagitis due to GERD including erosive or ulcerative disease diagnosed by endoscopy ( see ) .
Short - term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) . )
.
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical StudiesCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies 5 .
( see ) Treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , multiple endocrine adenomas ) CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of these products .
Cross sensitivity in this class of compounds has been observed .
Therefore , famotidine should not be administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other H receptor antagonists .
2 PRECAUTIONS General Symptomatic response to therapy with famotidine does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , longer intervals between doses or lower doses may need to be used in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency to adjust for the longer elimination half - life of famotidine .
( See ) .
and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTSDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Drug Interactions No drug interactions have been identified .
Studies with famotidine in man , in animal models , and in vitro have shown no significant interference with the disposition of compounds metabolized by the hepatic microsomal enzymes , e . g . , cytochrome P450 system .
Compounds tested in man include warfarin , theophylline , phenytoin , diazepam , aminopyrine and antipyrine .
Indocyanine green as an index of hepatic drug extraction has been tested and no significant effects have been found .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 106 week study in rats and a 92 week study in mice given oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2500 times the recommended human dose for active duodenal ulcer ) , there was no evidence of carcinogenic potential for famotidine .
Famotidine was negative in the microbial mutagen test ( Ames test ) using Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli with or without rat liver enzyme activation at concentrations up to 10 , 000 mcg / plate .
In in vivo studies in mice , with a micronucleus test and a chromosomal aberration test , no evidence of a mutagenic effect was observed .
In studies with rats given oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day or intravenous doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day , fertility and reproductive performance were not affected .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy : Category B . Reproductive studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at oral doses of up to 2000 and 500 mg / kg / day , respectively , and in both species at I . V . doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day , and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to famotidine .
While no direct fetotoxic effects have been observed , sporadic abortions occurring only in mothers displaying marked decreased food intake were seen in some rabbits at oral doses of 200 mg / kg / day ( 250 times the usual human dose ) or higher .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Studies performed in lactating rats have shown that famotidine is secreted into breast milk .
Transient growth depression was observed in young rats suckling from mothers treated with maternotoxic doses of at least 600 times the usual human dose .
Famotidine is detectable in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from famotidine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Pediatric Patients < 1 year of age Use of famotidine in pediatric patients < 1 year of age is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults , and by the following studies in pediatric patients < 1 year of age .
Two pharmacokinetic studies in pediatric patients < 1 year of age ( N = 48 ) demonstrated that clearance of famotidine in patients > 3 months to 1 year of age is similar to that seen in older pediatric patients ( 1 - 15 years of age ) and adults .
In contrast , pediatric patients 0 - 3 months of age had famotidine clearance values that were 2 to 4 fold less than those in older pediatric patients and adults .
These studies also show that the mean bioavailability in pediatric patients < 1 year of age after oral dosing is similar to older pediatric patients and adults .
Pharmacodynamic data in pediatric patients 0 - 3 months of age suggest that the duration of acid suppression is longer compared with older pediatric patients , consistent with the longer famotidine half - life in pediatric patients 0 - 3 months of age .
( See . )
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS , Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics In a double - blind , randomized , treatment - withdrawal study , 35 pediatric patients < 1 year of age who were diagnosed as having gastroesophageal reflux disease were treated for up to 4 weeks with famotidine oral suspension ( 0 . 5 mg / kg / dose or 1 mg / kg / dose ) .
Although an intravenous famotidine formulation was available , no patients were treated with intravenous famotidine in this study .
Also , caregivers were instructed to provide conservative treatment including thickened feedings .
Enrolled patients were diagnosed primarily by history of vomiting ( spitting up ) and irritability ( fussiness ) .
The famotidine dosing regimen was once daily for patients < 3 months of age and twice daily for patients ≥ 3 months of age .
After 4 weeks of treatment , patients were randomly withdrawn from the treatment and followed an additional 4 weeks for adverse events and symptomatology .
Patients were evaluated for vomiting ( spitting up ) , irritability ( fussiness ) and global assessments of improvement .
The study patients ranged in age at entry from 1 . 3 to 10 . 5 months ( mean 5 . 6 ± 2 . 9 months ) , 57 % were female , 91 % were white and 6 % were black .
Most patients ( 27 / 35 ) continued into the treatment - withdrawal phase of the study .
Two patients discontinued famotidine due to adverse events .
Most patients improved during the initial treatment phase of the study .
Results of the treatment - withdrawal phase were difficult to interpret because of small numbers of patients .
Of the 35 patients enrolled in the study , agitation was observed in 5 patients on famotidine that resolved when the medication was discontinued ; agitation was not observed in patients on placebo ( see ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS , Pediatric Patients These studies suggest that a starting dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / dose of famotidine oral suspension may be of benefit for the treatment of GERD for up to 4 weeks once daily in patients < 3 months of age and twice daily in patients 3 months to < 1 year of age ; the safety and benefit of famotidine treatment beyond 4 weeks have not been established .
Famotidine should be considered for the treatment of GERD only if conservative measures ( e . g . , thickened feedings ) are used concurrently and if the potential benefit outweighs the risk .
Pediatric Patients 1 - 16 years of age Use of famotidine in pediatric patients 1 - 16 years of age is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults , and by the following studies in pediatric patients : In published studies in small numbers of pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age , clearance of famotidine was similar to that seen in adults .
In pediatric patients 11 - 15 years of age , oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg were associated with a mean area under the curve ( AUC ) similar to that seen in adults treated orally with 40 mg .
Similarly , in pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age , intravenous doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg were associated with a mean AUC similar to that seen in adults treated intravenously with 40 mg .
Limited published studies also suggest that the relationship between serum concentration and acid suppression is similar in pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age as compared with adults .
These studies suggest a starting dose for pediatric 1 - 16 years of age as follows : Peptic ulcer - 0 . 5 mg / kg / day p . o . at bedtime or divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg / day .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations - 1 mg / kg / day p . o . divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg b . i . d .
While published uncontrolled studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or pH determination ( gastric or esophageal ) and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled clinical studies in pediatric patients have employed doses up to 1 mg / kg / day for peptic ulcer and 2 mg / kg / day for GERD with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations .
Geriatric Use Of the 4 , 966 subjects in clinical studies who were treated with famotidine , 488 subjects ( 9 . 8 % ) were 65 and older , and 88 subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) were greater than 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment is required based on age ( see ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Dosage adjustment in the case of moderate or severe renal impairment is necessary ( see and ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , PharmacokineticsPRECAUTIONS , Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal InsufficiencyDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been reported during domestic and international clinical trials in approximately 2500 patients .
In those controlled clinical trials in which famotidine tablets were compared to placebo , the incidence of adverse experiences in the group which received famotidine tablets , 40 mg at bedtime , was similar to that in the placebo group .
The following adverse reactions have been reported to occur in more than 1 % of patients on therapy with famotidine in controlled clinical trials , and may be causally related to the drug : headache ( 4 . 7 % ) , dizziness ( 1 . 3 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 2 % ) and diarrhea ( 1 . 7 % ) .
The following other adverse reactions have been reported infrequently in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed .
The relationship to therapy with famotidine has been unclear in many cases .
Within each category the adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing severity : fever , asthenia , fatigue Body as a Whole : arrhythmia , AV block , palpitation Cardiovascular : cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis , liver enzyme abnormalities , vomiting , nausea , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , dry mouth Gastrointestinal : rare cases of agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia Hematologic : anaphylaxis , angioedema , orbital or facial edema , urticaria , rash , conjunctival injection Hypersensitivity : musculoskeletal pain including muscle cramps , arthralgia Musculoskeletal : grand mal seizure ; psychic disturbances , which were reversible in cases for which follow - up was obtained , including hallucinations , confusion , agitation , depression , anxiety , decreased libido ; paresthesia ; insomnia ; somnolence . Convulsions , in patients with impaired renal function , have been reported very rarely .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : bronchospasm , interstitial pneumonia Respiratory : toxic epidermal necrolysis / Stevens Johnson syndrome ( very rare ) , alopecia , acne , pruritus , dry skin , flushing Skin : tinnitus , taste disorder Special Senses : rare cases of impotence and rare cases of gynecomastia have been reported ; however , in controlled clinical trials , the incidences were not greater than those seen with placebo . The adverse reactions reported for famotidine tablets may also occur with famotidine for Oral Suspension .
Other : Pediatric Patients In a clinical study in 35 pediatric patients < 1 year of age with GERD symptoms [ e . g . , vomiting ( spitting up ) , irritability ( fussing ) ] , agitation was observed in 5 patients on famotidine that resolved when the medication was discontinued .
OVERDOSAGE The adverse reactions in overdose cases are similar to the adverse reactions encountered in normal clinical experience ( see ) .
Oral doses of up to 640 mg / day have been given to adult patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions with no serious adverse effects .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Unabsorbed material should be removed from the gastrointestinal tract , the patient should be monitored , and supportive therapy should be employed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The oral LD of famotidine in male and female rats and mice was greater than 3000 mg / kg and the minimum lethal acute oral dose in dogs exceeded 2000 mg / kg .
Famotidine did not produce overt effects at high oral doses in mice , rats , cats and dogs , but induced significant anorexia and growth depression in rabbits starting with 200 mg / kg / day orally .
The intravenous LD of famotidine for mice and rats ranged from 254 - 563 mg / kg and the minimum lethal single I . V . dose in dogs was approximately 300 mg / kg .
Signs of acute intoxication in I . V . treated dogs were emesis , restlessness , pallor of mucous membranes or redness of mouth and ears , hypotension , tachycardia and collapse .
5050 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Duodenal Ulcer Acute Therapy : The recommended adult oral dosage for active duodenal ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime .
Most patients heal within 4 weeks ; there is rarely reason to use famotidine at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks .
A regimen of 20 mg b . i . d . is also effective . Maintenance Therapy : The recommended adult oral dose is 20 mg once a day at bedtime .
Benign Gastric Ulcer Acute Therapy : The recommended adult oral dosage for active benign gastric ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime .
The recommended oral dosage for treatment of adult patients with symptoms of GERD is 20 mg b . i . d . for up to 6 weeks .
The recommended oral dosage for the treatment of adult patients with esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations and accompanying symptoms due to GERD is 20 or 40 mg b . i . d . for up to 12 weeks ( see ) Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies .
Dosage for Pediatric Patients < 1 year of ageGastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Patients < 1 year of age .
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS , PediatricPatients < 1 year of age suggest the following startingdoses in pediatric patients < 1 year of age : Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) - 0 . 5 mg / kg / dose of famotidine oral suspension for thetreatment of GERD for up to 8 weeks once daily inpatients < 3 months of age and 0 . 5 mg / kg / dose twicedaily in patients 3 months to < 1 year of age .
Patientsshould also be receiving conservative measures ( e . g . , thickened feedings ) .
The use of intravenous famotidinein pediatric patients < 1 year of age with GERD has notbeen adequately studied .
Dosage for Pediatric Patients 1 - 16 years of age See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Patients 1 - 16 years of age .
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Patients 1 - 16 years of age suggest the following starting doses in pediatric patients 1 - 16 years of age .
Peptic Ulcer - 0 . 5 mg / kg / day p . o . at bedtime or divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg / day .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease with or without Esophagitis Including Erosions and Ulcerations – 1 mg / kg / day p . o . divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg b . i . d .
While published uncontrolled studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or pH determination ( gastric or esophageal ) and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled clinical studies in pediatric patients 1 - 16 years of age have employed doses up to 1 mg / kg / day for peptic ulcer and 2 mg / kg / day for GERD with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations .
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) The dosage of famotidine in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions varies with the individual patient .
The recommended adult oral starting dose for pathological hypersecretory conditions is 20 mg q 6 h .
In some patients , a higher starting dose may be required .
Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue as long as clinically indicated .
Doses up to 160 mg q 6 h have been administered to some adult patients with severe Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome .
Concomitant Use of Antacids Antacids may be given concomitantly if needed .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency In adult patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency , the elimination half - life of famotidine is increased .
For patients with severe renal insufficiency , it may exceed 20 hours , reaching approximately 24 hours in anuric patients .
Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , to avoid excess accumulation of the drug in patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency , the dose of famotidine may be reduced to half the dose or the dosing interval may be prolonged to 36 - 48 hours as indicated by the patient ’ s clinical response .
Based on the comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters for famotidine in adults and pediatric patients , dosage adjustment in pediatric patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency should be considered .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC : 68151 - 0184 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 TABLET , FILM COATEDS Famotidine 20 MG TAB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 40 mg Labels Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
