ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Purpose 0 . 070 g Avobenzone 1 . 0 % .......... Sunscreen 0 . 350 g Homosalate 5 . 0 % ...........
Sunscreen 0 . 525 g Octinoxate 7 . 5 % ............. Sunscreen 0 . 350 g Octisalate 5 . 0 % .............. Sunscreen 0 . 420 g Oxybenzone 6 . 0 % .......... Sunscreen USAGE - Helps prevent sunburn - If used as directed with other sun measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
WARNING For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using the product , keep out of eyes , rinse with water to remove .
DIRECTIONS Directions - apply liberally ( or generously ) and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Sun Protection Measures : - spending time in the sun increases - your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF Value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : - limit time in the sum , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . - wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses reapply : - after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
- immmediatly after towel drying .
- at least every 2 hours .
Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , aloe barbadensis ( aloe vera ) leaf juice , butylparaben , carbomer , calendula officinalis flower extract , chamomile recutita ( matricaria ) extract , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , dimethicone , dimethyl capramide , ethylparaben , fragrance ( parfum ) , glyceryl stearate , isobutylparaben , methylparaben , nasturtium officinale ( watercress ) extract , peg - 100 stearate , phenoxyethanol , propylparaben , symphytum officinale ( comfrey ) leaf extract , tetrasodium EDTA , tocopherol , tocopheryl acetate , triethanolamine , water .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Protect this product from excessive heat and sun .
ASK A DOCTOR Stop use and ask a doctor if a rash occurs .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of the reach of children if swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
PURPOSE Sunscreen PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
