NeutraCare Home Topical Treatment ( 1 . 1 % w / w Neutral Sodium Fluoride ) Active Ingredient : Sodium Fluoride 1 . 1 % w / w ( 0 . 5 % fluoride ion ) DESCRIPTION : Oral - B NeutraCare Home Topical Treatment is a mint flavored 1 . 1 % w / w neutral sodium fluoride aqueous solution .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified water , Sorbitol , Carbopol , Sodium hydroxide , Mint flavor , Methylparaben , Sodium saccharin , Propylparaben .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Topical sodium fluoride preparations alter the composition and crystalline structure of tooth enamel promoting remineralization , increasing the resistance of tooth enamel to acid dissolution .
INDICATION AND USE : A once daily topical neutral aqueous solution for the prevention of dental caries .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to fluoride .
• Do not use in patients with dysphagia .
WARNINGS : • DO NOT SWALLOW .
An occasional accidental ingestion of a usual treatment dose ( a thin ribbon ) is harmless .
If more than used for treatment is swallowed , administer calcium ( e . g . milk ) and get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Keep out of the reach of infants and children under 12 years .
• Children under 12 years should use this product only under adult supervision to prevent swallowing .
Safety and effectiveness below age 6 have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in female and male mice at doses ranging from 2 . 4 to 18 . 8 mg / kg sodium fluoride of body weight ( 3 , 4 ) .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenicity was reported in male rats at doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 4 . 1 mg / kg fluoride , but no evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in female rats ( 3 , 4 ) .
In another study , no carcinogenicity was observed in rats treated with fluoride up to 25 mg / kg of body weight ( 5 ) .
Overall , epidemiological studies do not show an association between fluoridated drinking water and increased cancer risk in humans ( 7 ) .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems but has been associated with genetic aberrations in cultured human cells at doses much higher than expected for human exposure ( 6 , 8 ) .
Some in vivo studies report chromosomal aberrations in rodents while other studies using similar protocols report negative results ( 7 ) .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse reproductive effects of fluoride have been reported in animal studies , but at high concentrations sufficient to produce other manifestations of toxicity ( 9 ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Fluoride readily crosses the placenta ( 7 , 9 ) .
Animal studies ( rats and rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen ( 10 , 12 , 13 ) .
Maternal exposure to 18 mg Fluoride / kg of body weight did not affect maternal body weight , litter size or fetal weight and did not increase frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations ( 10 ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Several epidemiological studies show no increase in birth defects in areas with fluoridated water compared to areas with low fluoridated water ( 7 ) .
However , caution should be exercised when fluoride is administered to pregnant women .
Nursing mothers : Due to the relative insensitivity of human milk fluoride levels to changes in maternal fluoride intake , and due to the very low concentrations of fluoride in human milk , fluoride supplementation during lactation would not be expected to significantly affect fluoride intake by the nursing infant ( 11 ) .
However , caution should be exercised when fluoride is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric use : The use of fluoride solutions , gels , and foams containing up to 1 . 23 % fluoride ion as caries preventives in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years is supported by clinical studies in students aged 6 to 12 years ( 1 , 2 ) .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years has not been established .
Please refer to CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
Geriatric use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between geriatric and younger patients .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , therefore the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Developing teeth of children under age 6 may become permanently discolored if excessive amounts are repeatedly swallowed .
The following adverse reactions are possible in individuals hypersensitive to fluoride : eczema , atopic dermatitis , urticaria , gastric distress , headache and weakness .
In patients with mucositis , gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to the flavor .
OVERDOSAGE : Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride can result in acute irritation of the mouth and gastrointestinal tract as well as the development of gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , hematemesis epigastric cramping and abdominal pain .
If large amounts of fluoride equal to or greater than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) are ingested , give calcium ( e . g . milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( approximately a gram ) of NeutraCare contains approximately 5 . 1 mg fluoride .
One 2 FL OZ ( 60 ml ) tube contains approximately 336 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults and Children 6 years and over : • Use daily after normal brushing and flossing , preferably at bedtime .
• Apply a thin ribbon of treatment to teeth with a toothbrush and leave in place for one minute .
• Expectorate .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
• Do not eat or drink for at least 30 minutes afterwards except children 6 to 18 years who should rinse mouth thoroughly after use .
Children under 12 years : • Should use this product only under adult supervision to prevent swallowing .
HOW SUPPLIED : NeutraCare is available in a plastic tube containing 2 FL OZ ( 60 ml ) in mint flavor , NDC 0041 - 241 - 22 .
REFERENCES : ( 1 . )
Wellock , W . D . and Brudevold , F . : Arch .
Oral Biol . , 10 , 453 - 460 ( 1965 ) ( 2 . )
Jiang , H et al . : J . Dent , 33 , 469 - 473 ( 2005 ) ( 3 . )
National Toxicology Program : NTP TR 393 , NIH Publication 91 - 2842 , ( 1990 ) ( 4 . )
Bucker , J . R . et al . : Int .
J . Cancer 48 , 733 - 737 ( 1991 ) ( 5 . )
Maurer , J . K . et al . : J . Natl . Cancer Inst .
82 , 1118 - 1126 ( 1990 ) ( 6 ) Martin , G . R . et al . : Mutat .
Res .
66 , 159 - 167 ( 1979 ) ( 7 . )
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry : Toxicological Profile for Fluoride ( 2003 ) ( 8 . )
Aardema , M . J . et al . : Mutat .
Res .
331 ( 1 ) , 171 - 172 ( 9 . )
National Research Council : Fluoride in Drinking Water ( 2006 ) ( 10 . )
Heindel , J . J . et al . : Fundam Appl Toxicol , 30 , 162 - 177 ( 1996 ) ( 11 . )
Institute of Medicine , Food and Nutrition Board : Dietary Reference Intakes ( 1997 ) ( 12 . )
Collins , T . F . et al . : Food Chem .
Toxicol .
33 ( 11 ) , 951 - 960 ( 13 . )
Collins , T . F . et al . : Food Chem Toxicol .
39 ( 8 ) , 867 - 876 NeutraCare [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
