Active ingredient Witch hazel 50 % Purpose Astringent Uses • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporary relief of irritation and burning • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area • use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) • for vaginal care - cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• for use as a moist compress - if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
Inactive ingredients Water , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Citrate , Citric Acid , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate , 2 - Bromo - 2 - Nitropropane - 1 , 3 - Diol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , PEG - 75 Lanolin Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 ( C ) 2015 CVS / pharmacy www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Wyeth LCC Consumer , owner of the registered trademark of Preparation H ( R ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - LID LABEL CVS Health MEDICATED WIPES HEMORRHOIDAL WIPES WITH WITCH HAZEL • Mild , everyday wipes to ease and lessen irritation • Cooling , soothing , gentle , soft • Convenient , easy to use • For hemorrhoidal and vaginal care Enriched with Aloe 48 Medicated wipes 5 in x 6 in ( 12 . 7 cm x 15 . 2 cm ) Lid label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Flow Wrap [ MULTIMEDIA ] Packet [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
