BACLOFEN TABLETS , USP Rx only DESCRIPTION Baclofen USP is a muscle relaxant and antispastic .
Its chemical name is 4 - amino - 3 - ( - 4 - chlorophenyl ) - butanoic acid .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baclofen USP is a white to off - white , odorless or practically odorless crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water , very slightly soluble in methanol and insoluble in chloroform .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 10 mg or 20 mg baclofen .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The precise mechanism of action of baclofen is not fully known .
Baclofen is capable of inhibiting both monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes at the spinal level , possibly by hyperpolarization of afferent terminals , although actions at supraspinal sites may also occur and contribute to its clinical effect .
Although baclofen is an analog of the putative inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) , there is no conclusive evidence that actions on GABA systems are involved in the production of its clinical effects .
In studies with animals baclofen has been shown to have general CNS depressant properties as indicated by the production of sedation with tolerance , somnolence , ataxia , and respiratory and cardiovascular depression .
Baclofen is rapidly and extensively absorbed and eliminated .
Absorption may be dose - dependent , being reduced with increasing doses .
Baclofen is excreted primarily by the kidney in unchanged form and there is relatively large intersubject variation in absorption and / or elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Baclofen is useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis , particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain , clonus , and muscular rigidity .
Patients should have reversible spasticity so that baclofen treatment will aid in restoring residual function .
Baclofen may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases .
Baclofen is not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders .
The efficacy of baclofen in stroke , cerebral palsy , and Parkinson ’ s disease has not been established and , therefore , it is not recommended for these conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to baclofen .
WARNINGS a . Neonatal Withdrawal Symptoms : Withdrawal symptoms have been reported starting hours to days after delivery in neonates whose mothers were treated with oral baclofen throughout pregnancy .
The symptoms of withdrawal in these infants have included increased muscle tone , tremor , jitteriness , and seizure .
If the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and oral baclofen is continued during pregnancy , gradually reduce the dose and discontinue baclofen before delivery .
If slow withdrawal is not feasible , advise the parents or caregivers of the potential for neonatal withdrawal . "
b . Abrupt Drug Withdrawal : Hallucinations and seizures have occurred on abrupt withdrawal of baclofen .
Therefore , except for serious adverse reactions , the dose should be reduced slowly when the drug is discontinued .
c . Impaired Renal Function : Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged through the kidneys , it should be given with caution , and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage .
d . Stroke : Baclofen has not significantly benefited patients with stroke .
These patients have also shown poor tolerability to the drug .
e . Pregnancy : Baclofen has been shown to increase the incidence of omphaloceles ( ventral hernias ) in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum dose recommended for human use , at a dose which caused significant reductions in food intake and weight gain in dams .
This abnormality was not seen in mice or rabbits .
There was also an increased incidence of incomplete sternebral ossification in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum recommended human dose , and an increased incidence of unossified phalangeal nuclei of forelimbs and hindlimbs in fetuses of rabbits given approximately 7 times the maximum recommended human dose .
In mice , no teratogenic effects were observed , although reductions in mean fetal weight with consequent delays in skeletal ossification were present when dams were given 17 and 34 times the human daily dose .
There are no studies in pregnant women .
Baclofen should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit clearly justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
PRECAUTIONS Because of the possibility of sedation , patients should be cautioned regarding the operation of automobiles or other dangerous machinery , and activities made hazardous by decreased alertness .
Patients should also be cautioned that the central nervous system effects of baclofen may be additive to those of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Baclofen should be used with caution where spasticity is utilized to sustain upright posture and balance in locomotion or whenever spasticity is utilized to obtain increased function .
In patients with epilepsy , the clinical state and electroencephalogram should be monitored at regular intervals , since deterioration in seizure control and EEG have been reported occasionally in patients taking baclofen .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
A dose - related increase in incidence of ovarian cysts and a less marked increase in enlarged and / or hemorrhagic adrenal glands was observed in female rats treated chronically with baclofen .
Ovarian cysts have been found by palpation in about 4 % of the multiple sclerosis patients that were treated with baclofen for up to one year .
In most cases these cysts disappeared spontaneously while patients continued to receive the drug .
Ovarian cysts are estimated to occur spontaneously in approximately 1 % to 5 % of the normal female population .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common is transient drowsiness ( 10 to 63 % ) .
In one controlled study of 175 patients , transient drowsiness was observed in 63 % of those receiving baclofen compared to 36 % of those in the placebo group .
Other common adverse reactions are dizziness ( 5 to 15 % ) , weakness ( 5 to 15 % ) and fatigue ( 2 to 4 % ) .
Others reported : Neuropsychiatric : Confusion ( 1 to 11 % ) , headache ( 4 to 8 % ) , insomnia ( 2 to 7 % ) ; and rarely , euphoria , excitement , depression , hallucinations , paresthesia , muscle pain , tinnitus , slurred speech , coordination disorder , tremor , rigidity , dystonia , ataxia , blurred vision , nystagmus , strabismus , miosis , mydriasis , diplopia , dysarthria , epileptic seizure .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension ( 0 to 9 % ) .
Rare instances of dyspnea , palpitation , chest pain , syncope .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea ( 4 to 12 % ) , constipation ( 2 to 6 % ) ; and rarely , dry mouth , anorexia , taste disorder , abdominal pain , vomiting , diarrhea , and positive test for occult blood in stool .
Genitourinary : Urinary frequency ( 2 to 6 % ) ; and rarely , enuresis , urinary retention , dysuria , impotence , inability to ejaculate , nocturia , hematuria .
Other : Instances of rash , pruritus , ankle edema , excessive perspiration , weight gain , nasal congestion .
Some of the CNS and genitourinary symptoms may be related to the underlying disease rather than to drug therapy .
The following laboratory tests have been found to be abnormal in a few patients receiving baclofen : increased SGOT , elevated alkaline phosphatase , and elevation of blood sugar .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms : Vomiting , muscular hypotonia , drowsiness , accommodation disorders , coma , respiratory depression and seizures .
Treatment : In the alert patient , empty the stomach promptly by induced emesis followed by lavage .
In the obtunded patient , secure the airway with a cuffed endotracheal tube before beginning lavage ( do not induce emesis ) .
Maintain adequate respiratory exchange , do not use respiratory stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The determination of optimal dosage requires individual titration .
Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved ( usually between 40 to 80 mg daily ) .
The following dosage titration schedule is suggested : 5 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 10 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 15 mg t . i . d . for 3 days 20 mg t . i . d . for 3 days Thereafter additional increases may be necessary but the total daily dose should not exceed a maximum of 80 mg daily ( 20 mg q . i . d . ) .
The lowest dose compatible with an optimal response is recommended .
If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period , patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug ( see WARNINGS , Abrupt Drug Withdrawal ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Baclofen Tablets , USP , 10 mg are available as a white round flat - faced beveled edge bisected tablet debossed with “ LCI ” over “ 1330 ” on one side and plain on the other side , containing 10 mg Baclofen USP .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 10135 - 0532 - 01 ) , 500 ( NDC 10135 - 0532 - 05 ) and 1000 ( NDC 10135 - 0532 - 10 ) .
Baclofen Tablets , USP , 20 mg are available as a white round flat - faced beveled edge bisected tablet debossed with “ LCI ” over “ 1337 ” on one side and plain on the other side , containing 20 mg Baclofen USP .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 10135 - 0533 - 01 ) , 500 ( NDC 10135 - 0533 - 05 ) , 1000 ( NDC 10135 - 0533 - 10 ) PHARMACIST : Dispense in a well - closed container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19136 Distributed By : Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
New Castle , DE 19720 Made in the USA Rev . 1 5 / 20 LAN Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 10 mg 90 71610 - 452 - 60 180 71610 - 452 - 80 270 71610 - 452 - 92 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20200805 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg NDC 71610 - 452 - Baclofen , USP 10 mg Tablets - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
