Active Ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses For the treatment of Acne Warnings For External Use Only Keep Out Of Eyes When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Allantoin , Aloe Vera ( Aloe Barbadensis ) Leaf Juice , Bisabolol , Caprylyl Glycol , Carbomer , C13 - 14 Isoalkane , Diethylhexyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate , Dimethicone , Dimethyl Isosorbide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Ginger ( Zingiber Officinale ) Root Extract , Hexylene Glycol , Laureth - 7 , Menthoxypropanediol , Panthenol , PEG - 40 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Propanediol , Silica , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Stearate , Water / Aqua / Eau , Xanthan Gum .
SeneGence Spot - On 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Acne Treatment SenePlex + 15 mL / 0 . 5 fl oz U . S . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
