Drug Facts Active ingredients Capsaicin 0 . 025 % w / w ( Containing Capsicum Oleoresin 0 . 0625 % ) Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains and sprains Warnings For external use only • This is not a face cream .
Do not apply to the face .
• Do not use if allergic to chili peppers or if past allergic reaction to capsaicin .
• Do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken , sunburned , chapped or irritated skin .
• Do not bandage tightly .
• Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath , shower , hot tub , sauna or vigorous exercise .
Warm water , perspiration or open pores can intensify the impact of this product and burning sensation .
• Do not use with heating pad , hot water bottle or other source of heat .
Doing so can increase risk of serious burns .
When using this product • Do not get into eyes and avoid contact with other mucous membranes .
If contact occurs or if pain , discomfort or skin redness occurs , continually rise with cool water and seek medical help .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Stop using and get immediate medical attention if experience burning , pain , swelling or blistering of the skin .
Rare cause of severe burning or blistering have been reported .
If pregnant , breast - feeding or any medical conditions exist , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If inhaled , remove to fresh air .
If breathing is difficult , get medical attention immediately .
Directions • Rotate pump ' s spout counter - clockwise slightly to unlock ; clockwise to lock • Before using on children under 18 years of age consult a physician .
• Apply sparingly to affected area not more than 4 times daily .
However , for First use , apply to small area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction .
• Gently massage into the skin until fully absorbed .
• Wash hands with soap and water thoroughly after each application to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes .
Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Bisabolol , Carbomer , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Ceteareth - 20 , Green Tea ( Camellia Sinensis ) Leaf Extract , Glycerin , Methylisothiazolinone , PEG - 8 , Polyglyceryl - 3 Oleate , Triethanolamine , Water .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 888 - 452 - 9975 ; www . sirclelabs . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 237 ml Bottle Label NDC 51021 - 0302 - 08 BIO - SORB Cream Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Topical Use Only SIRCLE Laboratories 8 fl oz ( 237 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
