Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each sponge ) Nonoxynol 9 ( 1000 mg ) Purpose Vaginal contraceptive Use Prevents pregnancy Warnings • For vaginal use only • Not for rectal ( anal ) use Toxic Shock Syndrome Some cases of Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) have been reported in women using barrier contraceptives , including the sponge .
TSS is a rare , but serious disease that may cause death .
Warning signs of TSS include fever , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , muscle pain , dizziness , faintness or a sunburn - like rash on face or body .
If you have any of these signs , remove the sponge and get medical help right away Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs and may increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected partner Do not use • within the first six weeks after giving birth • if you have ever had Toxic Shock Syndrome • during your menstrual period • if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS .
If you do not know if you or your sex partner is infected , choose another form of birth control • if you are allergic to sulfites .
This product contains sodium metabisulfite which may cause severe allergic reactions in some people • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to nonoxynol 9 or to this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • recently had a miscarriage or an abortion • been told that you should not become pregnant • a vaginal or uterine condition , such as a vaginal septum or uterine prolapse , which may keep the product from working • a new partner , multiple sex partners , or unprotected sex .
Frequent use ( more than once a day ) of this product can increase vaginal irritation , which may increase the risk of getting the HIV / AIDS virus or other STDs from infected partners When using this product • you may get vaginal irritation ( burning , itching , or a rash ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • you or your partner get burning , itching , a rash , or other irritation of the vagina or penis • you or your partner have difficult or painful urination • you get abdominal pain , fever , chills , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge • you become pregnant Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • before using , read enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • wet the sponge thoroughly with clean water , squeeze gently until sponge is very sudsy • with the dimple side inside , fold sponge .
With string loop on bottom end , insert the sponge deep into the vagina ( see diagram in enclosed leaflet ) • protection begins right away and lasts for 24 hours even with repeated acts of intercourse • wait 6 hours after last intercourse before removing sponge • do not leave sponge in vagina for longer than 30 hours • do not re - use the sponge • if you have trouble removing or remove only part of the sponge from vagina , contact the Mayer Labs Product Support Line ( 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 ) or a health professional right away Other information • in clinical studies about 1 out of 10 women ( 9 - 11 % ) got pregnant during the first year of use when using this product correctly all the time .
The possibility of getting pregnant increases to about 1 out of 7 women ( 13 - 16 % ) when this product was not used correctly • studies have raised safety concerns that products containing the spermicide nonoxynol 9 can irritate the vagina and rectum .
Sometimes this irritation has no symptoms .
This irritation may increase the risk of getting HIV / AIDS from an infected partner • you can use nonoxynol 9 for birth control with or without a condom if you have sex with only one partner who is not infected with HIV and who has no other sexual partners or HIV risk factors • when used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS • use a latex condom without nonoxynol 9 if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS , multiple sex partners , or other HIV risk factors • ask a health professional if you have questions about your best birth control and STD prevention methods • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , citric acid , sodium dihydrogen citrate , sodium metabisulfite , sorbic acid , water in a polyurethane foam sponge .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 M - F 8 am - 5 pm PST Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge This 24 - hour vaginal contraceptive sponge is intended for the prevention of pregnancy .
Consumer Information Leaflet Your Personal Guide Please read the Drug Facts label on the carton and this leaflet completely and carefully before using Today ® Sponge .
If used correctly according to the label and diagram instructions on back of leaflet , Today ® Sponge may be a safe , effective and convenient birth control method .
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR USERS If you have no previous experience with vaginal birth control products , you should contact a doctor , health professional or family planning clinic for advice on how to use this product correctly .
If you have any questions on the best birth control method for you , contact a doctor , health professional or a family health clinic , especially if : • You were told that you should not become pregnant • You have given birth before No birth control product can prevent pregnancy all the time .
See Table of Pregnancy Rates for Birth Control Methods for a comparison of pregnancy rates .
No birth control method is without side effects or is suitable for all women .
Consult a health professional for your best method .
For best results , barrier methods , such as the sponge or condom , must be used correctly during every act of intercourse .
Pregnancy Rates for Birth Control Methods ( For One Year of Use ) In clinical studies with Today ® Sponge , the pregnancy rates per 100 women during the first year of use were : • About 1 out of 10 women ( 9 - 11 % ) became pregnant when using this correctly all the time .
• The possibility of getting pregnant increased to about 1 out of 7 women ( 13 - 16 % ) when this product was not used correctly .
The following table gives the approximate number of women out of 100 women who are likely to become pregnant while using a particular contraceptive method for one year .
Pregnancy Rates for Birth Control Methods Number of Women Out of 100 Women Who Will Become Pregnant in the First Year of Use Table AMost Effective ( Fewer Pregnancies ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Least Effective ( More Pregnancies ) Method Number of women out of 100 who will become pregnant in one year of typical use [ 1 ] • Sterilization ( male or female ) • Intrauterine Devices ( IUDs ) Less than 1 • Hormonal Methods : • Implant Less than 1 • • Injection 3 • • Pill • Patch • Vaginal Ring 8 • Male condoms ( used without spermicide ) 15 • Lea ' s Shield ( used with spermicide ) 15 [ 2 ] • Diaphragm ( used with spermicide ) 16 • Vaginal Sponge ( contains spermicide ) null • Cervical Cap ( use with spermicide ) • • ▸ 16 for women who have never had children • ▸ 32 for women who have had one or more children 16 - 32 • Female Condom 21 • Withdrawal • Natural Family Planning ( calendar , temperature , cervical mucus ) 25 - 27 • Spermicides alone ( gel , cream , foam , film , suppository ) 29 • No contraception 85 [ 1 ] " Typical Use " means use that is less than perfect .
Sometimes women do not use a method correctly or with every sexual act of intercourse .
[ 2 ] Clinical trial product data submitted to FDA Data adapted from : Trussell J . Contraceptive Efficacy .
In Hatcher RA , Trussell J , Stewart F , et al .
Contraceptive Technology : Nineteenth Revised Edition .
New York , NY : Ardent Media , 2007 .
1 .
PRODUCT OVERVIEW A .
What is Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge and how does it work ?
This birth control product is a soft , disposable polyurethane foam sponge containing 1000 mg of nonoxynol 9 , which kills sperm on contact .
It is inserted into the vagina and while in place provides protection against pregnancy for 24 hours .
As long as the sponge is in place in the vagina , there is no need to add additional spermicidal creams or jellies , even if intercourse is repeated .
Used as directed , Today ® Sponge prevents pregnancy in three ways : 1 ) the nonoxynol 9 contained in Today ® Sponge kills sperm before they can reach the egg ; 2 ) Today ® Sponge blocks the cervix opening to the uterus so the sperm cannot enter ; 3 ) Today ® Sponge traps and absorbs the sperm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Nonoxynol 9 contained within the sponge is released gradually over a 24 - hour period .
• Soft polyurethane foam sponge is formulated to feel like normal vaginal tissue .
• Specially designed ribbon loop is attached to an interior web for maximum strength for removing sponge .
• Anatomically contoured indentation covers cervix to help position sponge properly .
• Sponge exterior is carefully shaped for easy insertion .
• Store Today ® Sponge at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
B . How can I improve the effectiveness of the Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge ?
No birth control method can provide reliable protection if it is not used correctly and consistently .
For greater birth control protection , you may want to use another method of birth control in addition to using the sponge , especially during the first few months while you become familiar with how to use it .
Correct use of a latex condom by your partner together with your correct use of the Today ® Sponge may provide additional protection against getting pregnant .
C . How easy is it to use Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge ?
This product is designed to be convenient and easy to use , and to avoid interruption of lovemaking , because it can be inserted up to 24 hours before starting intercourse .
Protection begins right away and lasts for 24 hours even with repeated acts of intercourse .
However the sponge should remain in place for at least 6 hours after the last act of intercourse , but should not be left in the vagina longer than 30 hours .
Any woman who can use a tampon should not have difficulty using the sponge .
It does not require a special fitting or prescription .
2 .
WARNINGS • For vaginal use only • Not for rectal ( anal ) use Toxic Shock Syndrome : Some cases of Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) have been reported in women using barrier contraceptives , including the sponge .
TSS is a rare , but serious disease that may cause death .
Warning signs of TSS include fever , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , muscle pain , dizziness , faintness or a sunburn - like rash on face or body .
If you have any of these signs , remove the sponge and get medical help right away .
You can avoid the risk of getting sponge - associated TSS by not using the sponge Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs and may increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected partner Do not use • within the first six weeks after giving birth • if you have ever had Toxic Shock Syndrome • during your menstrual period • if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS .
If you do not know if you or your sex partner is infected , choose another form of birth control • if you are allergic to sulfites .
This product contains sodium metabisulfite which may cause severe allergic reactions in some people • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to nonoxynol 9 or to this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • recently had a miscarriage or an abortion • been told that you should not become pregnant • a vaginal or uterine condition , such as a vaginal septum or uterine prolapse , which may keep the product from working • signs of pregnancy such as a late menstrual period • a new partner , multiple sex partners , or unprotected sex .
Frequent use ( more than once a day ) of this product can increase vaginal irritation , which may increase the risk of getting the HIV / AIDS virus or other STDs from infected partners .
Ask a doctor or health professional for your best birth control method When using this product • you may get vaginal irritation ( burning , itching , or a rash ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • you or your partner get burning , itching , a rash , or other irritation of the vagina or penis • you or your partner have difficult or painful urination • you get abdominal pain , fever , chills , or a foul - smelling vaginal discharge • you become pregnant Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( For most people , ingestion of small quantities of spermicide alone should not be harmful . )
3 .
DIRECTIONS Before using , read the back of this leaflet for diagram instructions for inserting and removing sponge .
• Wash hands before use .
• Remove the sponge from the pouch .
• Wet the sponge thoroughly with clean water , squeeze gently several times until sponge is very sudsy .
• With the dimple side of the sponge facing up , fold sponge upward and insert the sponge deep into the vagina as shown in diagram ( see section 9 ) .
The ribbon loop must be on the bottom for easy removal .
• Protection begins right away and lasts for 24 hours even with repeated acts of intercourse .
• Wait at least 6 hours after the last intercourse before removing sponge .
• Do not leave sponge in vagina for longer than 30 hours .
Leaving the sponge in vagina longer than 30 hours may increase the chances for vaginal irritation and serious infections .
• Do not re - use the sponge • If you have trouble removing the sponge from your vagina or remove only part of the sponge , call the Mayer Labs Product Support Line at 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 or contact a health professional right away .
• Do not douche while sponge is in your vagina .
Douching is not necessary .
If you want to douche wait at least 6 hours after last intercourse and remove the sponge before douching .
4 .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Benzoic acid , citric acid , sodium dihydrogen citrate , sodium metabisulfite , sorbic acid , water in a polyurethane foam sponge .
5 .
OTHER INFORMATION • studies have raised safety concerns that products containing the spermicide nonoxynol 9 can irritate the vagina and rectum .
Sometimes this irritation has no symptoms .
This irritation may increase the risk of getting HIV / AIDS from an infected partner • you can use nonoxynol 9 for birth control with or without a condom if you have sex with only one partner who is not infected with HIV and who has no other sexual partners or HIV risk factors • when used correctly every time you have sex , latex condoms greatly reduce , but do not eliminate , the risk of catching or spreading HIV , the virus that causes AIDS , and other STDs from infected partners • use a latex condom without nonoxynol 9 if you or your sex partner has HIV / AIDS , multiple sex partners , or other HIV risk factors • ask a health professional if you have questions about your best birth control and STD prevention methods • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) 6 .
OTHER QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE A . How can I reduce the chances of a serious infection including sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) ?
• Read Warnings and Other Information sections before use .
• You may want to see a doctor or health professional for advice on how to reduce the risk of STDs , especially if you have a new sex partner or multiple sex partners .
• Correct use of a latex condom by your partner with every sexual act will help reduce the risk of transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) and many sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
• Do not leave the sponge in vagina longer than 30 hours .
• Make sure that all of sponge is removed from vagina .
• Wash hands before inserting and removing the sponge .
B . Can I use Today ® Sponge during my menstrual period ?
• Today ® Sponge should not be used during the menstrual period .
Some cases of Toxic Shock Syndrome have been reported in women using the sponge during their menstrual period .
C . Can I have an allergic reaction or other side effects from the Today ® Sponge ?
• If you have ever had a severe allergic reaction to sulfites , do not use this product because it contains sodium metabisulfite .
• A small number of men and women may be sensitive to the spermicide , nonoxynol 9 , in this product and you should not use this product if irritation occurs and persists .
Of the women in clinical trials , between 2 - 3 % discontinued use of the sponge because of itching , irritation , or rash , and 1 - 3 % discontinued because of allergic reactions .
D .
What if Today ® Sponge develops an odor ?
• It is unlikely that you will notice an odor while Today ® Sponge is in place .
If there is a noticeable odor when you remove the sponge , do not be concerned .
Any material placed in the vagina will occasionally produce an odor when exposed to normal vaginal fluids and semen .
E . Can I insert Today ® Sponge after intercourse ?
• No , the sponge must be inserted before intercourse begins .
Once the penis enters the vagina , there is a greater chance of getting pregnant because there may be the leakage of sperm without ejaculation and , with ejaculation , sperm reaches the fallopian tubes even more quickly .
F . How does Today ® Sponge stay in place ?
Can the sponge get lost in my body ?
• Today ® Sponge is held in place by the muscles of the upper vagina .
The cup - like indention in the sponge helps to keep it in place directly over the cervix .
The opening from the vagina to the uterus is far too small for the sponge to pass through .
There is no other normal opening in the vagina that would provide access to any other part of your body .
G . Can Today ® Sponge tear while it is in place ?
• Today ® Sponge should not tear with normal muscular movement within the vagina or even during intercourse .
Be careful not to push a fingernail through the sponge when inserting or removing the sponge .
There may be minor separation or " splitting " of sponge material at stress points around the ribbon loop or in the center of the indentation .
But these minor separations do not affect the contraceptive capabilities of Today ® Sponge in any way .
H .
What if I have trouble removing Today ® Sponge ?
• If you have trouble removing the sponge or think that parts of the sponge are still in your vagina , carefully follow the removal instructions on the back of this leaflet .
If you still have trouble removing the sponge call the Mayer Labs Product Support Line at 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 or contact a health professional right away .
I . Can my partner feel Today ® Sponge during intercourse ?
• Today ® Sponge is designed to be soft and comfortable .
It feels like normal vaginal tissue .
Some men may feel the sponge during intercourse , but this is usually not objectionable .
J . Can I leave Today ® Sponge in place when I swim or bathe ?
• Yes .
Today ® Sponge will not be affected in any way .
K . Is Today ® Sponge as effective as the pill or IUD ?
• No .
Today ® Sponge is not as effective as the pill or IUD .
See Table of Pregnancy Rates for Birth Control Methods .
L . Can I use Today ® Sponge more than once ?
• No .
Use Today ® Sponge as directed and dispose of the used sponge in a waste container .
Do not flush it down the toilet .
Additional questions or comments ?
Call toll free1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 M - F 8 am - 5 pm PST 7 .
Important Points to Remember • If you are unsure about how to use Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge , contact a doctor , health professional , or family planning clinic for help .
• Today ® Sponge contains enough spermicide for repeated acts of intercourse during a 24 - hour period .
• To avoid introducing germs into your vagina , always wash your hands before handling Today ® Sponge and before inserting your fingers into your vagina .
• It is not necessary to use the sponge for a full 24 hours , as long as it is left in place 6 hours after the last act of intercourse .
• Wetting Today ® Sponge with clean water is important .
This is what activates the spermicide .
You will notice light foam or " suds " .
Do not try to rinse this out .
• If you have intercourse when sponge has been in place for 24 hours , leave it in place an additional 6 hours after intercourse before removing it .
Today ® Sponge must not be left in place for more than 30 hours .
• You may insert Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge any time up to 24 hours before beginning intercourse .
After inserting the sponge , you may have intercourse right away .
• If you have trouble removing the sponge or if you remove only part of the sponge call the Mayer Labs Product Support Line 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 or contact a health professional right away .
8 .
Some basic information about your reproductive system A . To use this method effectively , it is important for you to understand your anatomy .
B . How do I find the vaginal opening ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge is inserted through the vaginal opening and placed in the deepest part of the vagina , just below the cervix .
The cervix is at the bottom end of the uterus , and has a small opening through which sperm must travel to reach and fertilize the egg .
Sit on the edge of a chair with knees apart .
Place a good source of light about an arm ' s length in front of you and use a hand mirror to examine the region between the outer " lips , " or labia .
The vaginal opening is between the labia , just below the small urinary opening and one or two inches below the clitoris .
C . How do I find the cervix ?
D . Bearing Down [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is easier to find the cervix if you squat .
Insert your finger gently into the vagina , reaching up on an angle toward the back until you find the firm , round surface of the cervix .
It feels something like the tip of your nose .
In some cases , it may be difficult to locate , so you may have to explore a bit before you find it .
You can bring your cervix down closer to the vaginal opening , and thus make it easier to locate , by bearing down .
Take a deep breath and bear down as if you were having a bowel movement .
You should now be able to locate your cervix just above the vaginal opening .
This technique is also very useful for removing the sponge .
9 .
How to insert Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge A . Insertion Procedure The sponge may be inserted any time up to 24 hours before intercourse .
• 1 .
Remove the sponge from the airtight plastic pouch and hold it in one hand with the " dimple " side up .
The loop should dangle under the sponge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 .
Wet the sponge thoroughly with clean tap water .
The water activates the spermicide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 .
Squeeze the sponge gently several times until it becomes very sudsy .
Be sure you do not squeeze the sponge dry .
( The sponge should remain sudsy for insertion . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 .
Fold the sides of the sponge upward with a finger along each side to support it .
The sponge should look long and narrow .
Be sure the string loop dangles underneath the sponge from one end of the fold to the other , as shown .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 5 .
Bend your wrist and point the end of the folded sponge toward your vagina .
Be sure that you can see the fold when you look down at it and that the string loop dangles below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 .
From a standing position , squat down slightly and spread your legs apart .
Use your free hand to spread apart the lips of the vagina .
You may also stand with one foot on a stool or chair , sit cross - legged or lie down .
The semi - squatting position seems to work best for most women .
Slide the sponge into the opening of the vagina as far as your fingers will go .
Let the sponge slide through your fingers , deeper into the vagina .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 .
Now use one or two fingers to push the sponge gently up into your vagina as far as it will go .
Be careful not to push a fingernail through the sponge .
Check the position of the sponge by sliding your finger around the edge of the sponge to make sure your cervix is not exposed .
You should be able to feel the string loop .
B . Questions about insertion of Today ® Sponge .
1 .
How do I know Today ® Sponge is in the proper position ?
If you follow the instructions in this booklet , Today ® Sponge should be positioned correctly in the upper vagina .
To check its position , simply slide your finger around the edge of the sponge .
If your cervix is not exposed , the sponge is in the proper position .
You should be able to feel the string loop .
If the sponge is out of position , simply slide it back in place .
2 .
Can Today ® Sponge fall out ?
It is unlikely that Today ® Sponge will fall out .
During a bowel movement or other form of internal straining , it may be pushed down to the opening of the vagina and perhaps fall out .
If you suspect this happening , simply insert your finger into your vagina and push it back .
If it should fall into the toilet , moisten a new sponge and insert it immediately .
Do not flush the old sponge down the toilet .
Discard it in a waste container .
3 .
How does Today ® Sponge stay in place ?
Today ® Sponge is held in place by the muscles of the upper vagina .
In addition , the cup - like indentation on the top of the sponge helps to keep it in position directly over the cervix .
10 .
How to remove Today Vaginal Contraceptive Sponge A . Removal Procedure • 1 .
Always wait 6 hours after your last act of intercourse before removing the sponge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Put your finger into your vagina and reach up and back to find the string loop .
If you cannot find the loop immediately , bear down until you feel the loop ( see " Bearing Down , " section 8 D ) .
Hook your finger around the loop .
( If you have not found the loop , grasp the sponge between your thumb and forefinger . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Slowly and gently pull the sponge out .
If the vaginal muscles seem to be holding it tightly , wait a few minutes and try again .
If removal is still difficult , use the following exercise to relax your vaginal muscles : Tighten vaginal muscles as hard as you can and hold for 10 seconds , then relax and let go .
Repeat .
As you relax , breathe out slowly while bearing down ( see section 8 D ) .
Now remove the sponge as you continue to relax .
• 4 .
Dispose of the sponge in a waste container .
Do not flush it down the toilet .
B . Special Removal Situations 1 .
Stuck Sponge There are no structures in the vagina to interfere with removal of the sponge .
With tension or unusually strong muscular pressure , the sponge may be held in the vagina more tightly than normal .
Simple relaxation of the vaginal muscles and bearing down should make it possible to remove the sponge without difficulty ( see section 8 D ) .
If you are still unable to remove the sponge , it may have adhered by suction to the cervix .
To remove , it is necessary to break the suction .
To do this , slip a finger between the sponge and the cervix on one side , tilting the sponge up and away from the cervix .
Once free , the sponge may be removed normally .
If none of the above suggestions seems to help , see your physician or family planning clinic .
You may wish to take several unused Today ® Sponges along so your medical advisor can help you refine your insertion and removal technique .
2 .
Upside - down Sponge [ MULTIMEDIA ] Occasionally , a sponge will turn upside down in the vagina , making the string loop more difficult to find .
To find the string loop , run your finger around the edge on the back side of the sponge until you feel the string loop where it ' s attached to the sponge .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you cannot find the string loop , simply grasp the edge of the sponge between your thumb and forefinger and pull it out slowly .
Bearing down ( section 8 D ) will make it easier to reach the sponge .
3 .
Torn Sponge Today ® Sponge , like a soft contact lens , should be handled gently .
Pulling too hard or too quickly on the removal loop may cause the sponge to tear .
The procedure for removing a torn sponge is similar to that for an upside - down sponge .
The important thing is to remove the sponge slowly .
If you suspect that you have left small pieces of sponge inside the vagina , run a finger around the upper vault of your vagina with a sweeping movement and then toward the vaginal opening to find and remove any remaining sponge material .
To reduce the risk of infection , it is important that you get all parts of sponge out of the vagina .
If you have difficulty getting parts of sponge out of the vagina , call the Mayer Labs Product Support Line at 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 or contact a health professional right away .
C . Questions about removal of Today ® Sponge .
1 .
Is it necessary to douche after removing Today ® Sponge ?
No , it is not necessary .
However , you may douche after using the sponge if you like .
But do not douche while the sponge is inside the vagina .
And always wait at least 6 hours after intercourse before removing the sponge .
2 .
Can Today ® Sponge get lost in my body ?
The opening from the vagina to the uterus is far too small for Today ® Sponge to pass through .
There is no other normal opening in the vagina that would provide access to any other part of your body .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] TODAY ® sponge C VAGINAL CONTRACEPTIVE sponge Manufactured for : Mayer Laboratories , Inc . 1950 Addison Street , Berkeley , CA 94704 , USA www . TodaySponge . com / 1 - 877 - 494 - 2525 Today is a registered trademark of Almatica Pharma , Inc .
Made in U . S . A © 2011 Mayer Laboratories , Inc PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Sponge Pouch Box NO " PILL " SIDE EFFECTS Hormone Free 24 - Hour Protection NDC 44376 - 100 - 01 TODAY ® sponge C VAGINAL CONTRACEPTIVE sponge Intended for the prevention of pregnancy 3 vaginal contraceptive sponges containing nonoxynol 9 3 - WAY PROTECTION !
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
