DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide is an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , Pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine bromide is available in the following form : Extended - release tablets containing 180 mg Pyridostigmine bromide , each tablet also contains colloidal silicon dioxide , carnauba wax , tribasic calcium phosphate , zein ( corn protein ) and magnesium stearate .
ACTIONS Pyridostigmine bromide inhibits the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine ( Prostigmin ® ) , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects , for example , Pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATION Pyridostigmine bromide is useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine bromide is contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect underdosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of Pyridostigmine bromide may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of Pyridostigmine bromide or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or " insensitive " state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of Tensilon ® ( edrophonium chloride ) as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins1 calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins2 , Grob3 or Schwab . 4 , 5 Usage in pregnancy : The safety of Pyridostigmine bromide during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of Pyridostigmine bromide in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ' s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTION Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney .
6 , 7 , 8 Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect . 6 , 7 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of Pyridostigmine bromide are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . FDA . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine bromide is available in one dosage form .
Extended - release Tablets - each containing 180 mg Pyridostigmine bromide .
This form provides uniformly slow release , hence prolonged duration of drug action ; it facilitates control of myasthenic symptoms with fewer individual doses daily .
The immediate effect of a 180 mg Extended - release Tablet is about equal to that of a 60 mg Conventional Tablet , however , its duration of effectiveness , although varying in individual patients , averages 2 ½ times that of a 60 mg dose .
Dosage The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
Extended - release Tablets - One to three 180 mg tablets , once or twice daily , will usually be sufficient to control symptoms ; however , the needs of certain individuals may vary markedly from this average .
The interval between doses should be at least 6 hours .
For optimum control , it may be necessary to use the more rapidly acting regular tablets or syrup in conjunction with extended - release therapy .
Note : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on Tensilon ® ( edrophonium chloride ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Extended - release Tablets are available as light straw colored capsule - shaped tablets containing 180 mg Pyridostigmine bromide in bottles of 30 ( NDC 64980 - 220 - 03 ) .
Each tablet is engraved " NM 180 " on one side and is single - scored on the other .
Note : Because of the hygroscopic nature of the Extended - release Tablets , mottling may occur .
This does not affect their efficacy .
Store Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended - Release Tablets , 180 mg at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Keep Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended - Release Tablets , 180 mg in a dry place with the silica gel enclosed .
REFERENCES • Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
• Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
• Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of pathogenesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med . Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
• Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB . Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No . 1 , 78 - 81 .
• Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
ln : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesiology .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Con gr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
• Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM . Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Centaur Pharmaceuticals Private Limited , Plot No . 4 , International Biotech Park , Phase II , Hinjewadi , Pune - 411 057 , INDIA Distributed By : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Saddle Brook , NJ 07663 Rev . 10 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rising ® NDC 64980 - 220 · 03 Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended - Release Tablets 180 mg CAUTION : EXTREMELY MOISTURE SENSITIVE .
DO NOT REMOVE DESSlCANT .
CLOSE TIGHTLY 30 Tablets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
