Rx only DESCRIPTION : Pilocarpine Hydrochloride is a cholinergic prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C11H16N2O2 • HCl Mol .
Wt .
244 . 72 2 ( 3 H ) - Furanone , 3 - ethyldihydro - 4 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 5 - yl ) methyl ] - monohydrochloride , [ 3 S - cis ] - Pilocarpine HCI 0 . 5 % EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVE : Pilocarpine Hydrochloride 10 mg ( 1 % ) ; INACTIVES : Hypromellose , boric acid , sodium citrate , sodium chloride , Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide ( added to adjust pH ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
Pilocarpine HCI 4 % EACH mL CONTAINS : ACTIVE : Pilocarpine Hydrochloride 40 mg ( 4 % ) ; INACTIVES : Hypromellose , Monobasic Sodium Phosphate , Edetate Disodium , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Purified Water .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 5 - 5 . 5 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The actions of pilocarpine hydrochloride are those of pilocarpine , a cholinergic substance .
Its penetration , following topical application to the eye , results in parasympathomimetic reactions by responsive tissues .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Pilocarpine hydrochloride can be used in the medical management of glaucoma , especially open - angle glaucoma , in those cases in which the intraocular pressure can be controlled adequately by the topical administration of pilocarpine .
In acute ( closed - angle ) glaucoma , pilocarpine hydrochloride may be used alone , or in combination with other cholinergic agents or carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , to relieve tension prior to emergency surgery .
Patients may be maintained on pilocarpine hydrochloride as long as intraocular pressure is controlled and there is no deterioration in the visual fields .
The choice of concentration should be determined by the severity of the condition and the response of the patient .
Pilocarpine hydrochloride is also indicated to counter the effects of cycloplegics and mydriatics following surgery or ophthalmoscopic examination .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Parasympathomimetics are contraindicated where miosis is undesirable such as acute iritis or pupillary block glaucoma .
This product is also contraindicated in persons hypersensitive to one or more of the components of this preparation .
WARNINGS : Not for internal use .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
PRECAUTIONS : This pilocarpine - induced miosis may cause difficulty in dark adaptation .
The patient should exercise caution when involved in night driving or other hazardous activities in poor light .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : There have been no long - term studies done using pilocarpine in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal studies have not been conducted with pilocarpine .
It is also not known whether pilocarpine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
Pilocarpine should be given to a pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether the drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pilocarpine is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : OCULAR : Transient symptoms of stinging and burning may occur .
Ciliary spasm , conjunctival vascular congestion , temporal or supraorbital headache , lacrimation and induced myopia may occur .
This is especially true in younger individuals who have recently started administration .
Reduced visual acuity in poor illumination is frequently experienced by older individuals and individuals with lens opacity .
Miotic agents may also cause retinal detachment ; thus , care should be exercised with all miotic therapy especially in young myopic patients .
Lens opacity may occur with prolonged use of pilocarpine .
SYSTEMIC : Systemic reactions following topical administration , although extremely rare , have included hypertension , tachycardia , bronchiolar spasm , pulmonary edema , salivation , sweating , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The initial dose is one or two drops in the affected eye ( s ) .
This may be repeated up to three or four times daily or as directed by a physician .
The frequency of instillation and concentration of pilocarpine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution are determined by the severity of the glaucoma and miotic response of the patient .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require higher strengths .
During acute phases , the miotic must be instilled into the unaffected eye to prevent an attack of angle - closure glaucoma .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
HOW SUPPLIED Pilocarpine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP is supplied in 15 ml plastic DROP - TAINER * dispensers .
Pilocarpine HCl Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % 15 mL - NDC 21695 - 368 - 01 * DROP - TAINER is a registered trademark of Alcon Manufacturing Ltd .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
STORAGE : Store between 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC , Fort Worth , TX 76134 Distributed by : FALCON PHARMACEUTICALS LTD . , Fort Worth , TX 76134 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP , Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
