Contraindications ( 4 ) 10 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 10 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SKYTROFA ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) is a human growth hormone indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients 1 year and older who weigh at least 11 . 5 kg and have growth failure due to inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone ( GH ) .
SKYTROFA is a human growth hormone indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients 1 year and older who weigh at least 11 . 5 kg and have growth failure due to inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone ( GH ) ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SKYTROFA should be administered subcutaneously into the abdomen , buttock , or thigh with regular rotation of the injection sites ( 2 . 5 ) .
The recommended dose is 0 . 24 mg / kg body weight once - weekly .
See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration of drug ( 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) .
2 . 1 General Dosing Information • For subcutaneous injection , once - weekly .
• Therapy with SKYTROFA should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with growth failure due to growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) .
• To exclude preexisting papilledema , perform fundoscopic examination before initiating treatment with SKYTROFA and reassess periodically thereafter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Recommendations • The recommended dose of SKYTROFA for treatment - naïve patients and patients switching from daily somatropin therapy is 0 . 24 mg / kg body weight , given once - weekly .
• Individualize and titrate the dosage of SKYTROFA based on response .
• When changing from daily somatropin therapy to once - weekly SKYTROFA , wait at least 8 hours between the final dose of daily somatropin and the first dose of once - weekly SKYTROFA .
• Assess compliance and evaluate other causes of poor growth such as hypothyroidism , under - nutrition , advanced bone age and antibodies to recombinant human growth hormone if patients experience failure to increase height velocity , particularly during the first year of treatment .
• Discontinue SKYTROFA once epiphyseal fusion has occurred .
2 . 3 Missed Doses • Administer a missed dose as soon as possible and not more than 2 days after the missed dose .
• To avoid missed doses , SKYTROFA can be taken 2 days before or 2 days after the scheduled dosing day .
Resume once - weekly dosing for the next dose at the previously scheduled dosing day .
• If more than 2 days have passed from the scheduled day , skip the dose and administer the next dose on the regularly scheduled day .
• At least 5 days should elapse between doses .
2 . 4 Administration Instructions SKYTROFA is available in 9 cartridges ( dosage strengths in somatropin equivalents ) .
Selection of the appropriate cartridge is based on the prescribed dose ( mg / kg ) and the patient ' s body weight ( kg ) .
• If prescribing a dose of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week and the patient ' s weight is 11 . 5 to 100 kg , follow the recommended dosing in Table 1 .
• If prescribing a dose other than 0 . 24 mg / kg / week , calculate the total weekly dose ( in mg ) and select the appropriate cartridge as follows : • – Total weekly dose ( mg ) = prescribed weekly dose ( mg / kg ) × patient ' s body weight ( kg ) .
• – Round the total weekly dose ( mg ) to the closest cartridge dose while also considering treatment goals and clinical response .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosing for Patients Prescribed Doses of 0 . 24 mg / kg / weekWeight ( kg ) Dose ( mg ) 11 . 5 – 13 . 9 3 14 – 16 . 4 3 . 6 16 . 5 – 19 . 9 4 . 3 20 – 23 . 9 5 . 2 24 – 28 . 9 6 . 3 29 – 34 . 9 7 . 6 35 – 41 . 9 9 . 1 42 – 50 . 9 11 51 – 60 . 4 13 . 3 60 . 5 – 69 . 9 15 . 2 ( using two cartridges of 7 . 6 mg each ) 70 – 84 . 9 18 . 2 ( using two cartridges of 9 . 1 mg each ) 85 – 100 22 ( using two cartridges of 11 mg each ) 2 . 5 Preparation and Administration • The SKYTROFA cartridge has been designed for use only with the SKYTROFA Auto - Injector .
• If refrigerated , the SKYTROFA cartridge must be kept at room temperature for 15 minutes before use .
• The SKYTROFA Auto - Injector provides a fully automated reconstitution of the lyophilized drug product which is followed by a manual mixing step controlled by the device .
When the injection needle is inserted into the skin , the device automatically delivers the drug product .
The built - in electronics and software assist the user during the entire preparation and injection sequence and provide confirmation that the full dose has been delivered .
• The mixed solution should be clear and colorless to opalescent and may occasionally contain air bubbles .
DO NOT inject if the solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter .
• Use SKYTROFA cartridges within 4 hours after reconstitution .
Discard reconstituted SKYTROFA cartridges after 4 hours when stored at room temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Inject SKYTROFA subcutaneously into the abdomen , buttock , or thigh .
Rotate injection sites between and within regions to reduce the risk of lipoatrophy .
• Refer to the Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions with illustrations .
The instructions can also be found on www . Skytrofa . com / IFU .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS SKYTROFA is a white to off - white lyophilized powder available in a single - dose , dual - chamber , prefilled cartridge containing lonapegsomatropin - tcgd in one chamber and diluent , Water for Injection , in the other chamber and is available in the following strengths : For injection : 3 mg , 3 . 6 mg , 4 . 3 mg , 5 . 2 mg , 6 . 3 mg , 7 . 6 mg , 9 . 1 mg , 11 mg and 13 . 3 mg .
SKYTROFA is a lyophilized powder available in single - dose , dual - chamber , prefilled cartridges containing lonapegsomatropin - tcgd and diluent , Water for Injection , as follows : For injection : 3 mg , 3 . 6 mg , 4 . 3 mg , 5 . 2 mg , 6 . 3 mg , 7 . 6 mg , 9 . 1 mg , 11 mg and 13 . 3 mg ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SKYTROFA is contraindicated in patients with : • Acute critical illness after open heart surgery , abdominal surgery or multiple accidental trauma , or those with acute respiratory failure due to the risk of increased mortality with use of pharmacologic doses of somatropin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to somatropin or any of the excipients in SKYTROFA .
Severe systemic hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema , have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Closed epiphyses .
• Active malignancy due to the risk of malignancy progression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Active proliferative or severe non - proliferative diabetic retinopathy because treatment with somatropin may worsen this condition .
• Prader - Willi syndrome who are severely obese , have a history of upper airway obstruction or sleep apnea or have severe respiratory impairment due to the risk of sudden death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
• Acute critical illness ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to somatropin or any of the excipients in SKYTROFA ( 4 ) • Children with closed epiphyses ( 4 ) • Active malignancy ( 4 ) • Active proliferative or severe non - proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( 4 ) • Children with Prader - Willi syndrome who are severely obese or have severe respiratory impairment due to risk of sudden death ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe Hypersensitivity : Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and angioedema have occurred .
In the event of an allergic reaction , seek prompt medical attention ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Increased Risk of Neoplasms : Monitor patients with preexisting tumors for progressions or recurrence .
Increased risk of a second neoplasm in childhood cancer survivors treated with somatropin – in particular meningiomas in patients treated with radiation to the head for their first neoplasm ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Glucose Intolerance and Diabetes Mellitus : May be unmasked .
Periodically monitor glucose levels in all patients .
Doses of concurrent antihyperglycemic drugs in diabetics may require adjustment ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Intracranial Hypertension : Exclude preexisting papilledema .
May develop and is usually reversible after discontinuation or dose reduction ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Fluid Retention ( i . e . , edema , arthralgia , carpal tunnel syndrome ) : May occur .
Reduce dose as necessary ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Hypoadrenalism : Monitor patients for reduced serum cortisol levels and / or need for glucocorticoid dose increases in those with known hypoadrenalism ( 5 . 7 ) .
• Hypothyroidism : May first become evident or worsen ( 5 . 8 ) .
• Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis : May develop .
Evaluate children with the onset of a limp or persistent hip / knee pain ( 5 . 9 ) .
• Progression of Preexisting Scoliosis : May develop ( 5 . 10 ) .
• Pancreatitis : Consider pancreatitis in patients with persistent severe abdominal pain ( 5 . 11 ) .
5 . 1 Increased Mortality in Patients with Acute Critical Illness Increased mortality in patients with acute critical illness due to complications following open heart surgery , abdominal surgery or multiple accidental trauma , or those with acute respiratory failure has been reported after treatment with pharmacologic doses of somatropin [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The safety of continuing SKYTROFA treatment in patients receiving replacement doses for the approved indication who concurrently develop these illnesses has not been established .
5 . 2 Severe Hypersensitivity Serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema have been reported with postmarketing use of somatropin products , including SKYTROFA .
Inform patients and / or caregivers that such reactions are possible , and that prompt medical attention should be sought if an allergic reaction occurs .
SKYTROFA is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to somatropin or any of the excipients in SKYTROFA .
5 . 3 Increased Risk of Neoplasms Active Malignancy There is an increased risk of malignancy progression with somatropin treatment in patients with active malignancy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Any preexisting malignancy should be inactive , and its treatment should be completed prior to instituting therapy with SKYTROFA .
Discontinue SKYTROFA if there is evidence of recurrent malignancy .
Risk of Second Neoplasm in Pediatric Patients In childhood cancer survivors who were treated with radiation to the brain / head for their first neoplasm and who developed subsequent growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) and were treated with somatropin , an increased risk of a second neoplasm has been reported .
Intracranial tumors , in particular meningiomas , were the most common of these second neoplasms .
Monitor all patients with a history of GHD secondary to an intracranial neoplasm while on somatropin therapy for progression or recurrence of the tumor .
New Malignancy During Treatment Because children with certain rare genetic causes of short stature have an increased risk of developing malignancies , thoroughly consider the risks and benefits of starting somatropin in these patients .
If treatment with somatropin is initiated , carefully monitor these patients for development of neoplasms .
Monitor patients on somatropin therapy carefully for increased growth or potential malignant changes of preexisting nevi .
Advise patients / caregivers to report marked changes in behavior , onset of headaches , vision disturbances and / or changes in skin pigmentation or changes in the appearance of preexisting nevi .
5 . 4 Glucose Intolerance and Diabetes Mellitus Treatment with somatropin may decrease insulin sensitivity , particularly at higher doses .
Previously undiagnosed impaired glucose tolerance and overt type 2 diabetes mellitus may be unmasked .
Monitor glucose levels in all patients receiving SKYTROFA , especially in those with risk factors for type 2 diabetes mellitus , such as obesity or a family history of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
When initiating SKYTROFA , monitor closely patients with preexisting type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus or impaired glucose tolerance and adjust the doses of antihyperglycemic drugs as needed .
5 . 5 Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension ( IH ) with papilledema , visual changes , headache , nausea , and / or vomiting has been reported in a small number of patients treated with somatropin .
Symptoms usually occurred within 8 weeks after the initiation of somatropin .
In all reported cases , IH - associated signs and symptoms resolved rapidly after cessation of therapy or a reduction of the somatropin dose .
To exclude preexisting papilledema , perform fundoscopic examination before initiating treatment with SKYTROFA , and reassess periodically thereafter .
If papilledema is observed by fundoscopy , stop somatropin treatment .
If somatropin - induced IH is confirmed , restart treatment with SKYTROFA at a lower dose after IH - associated signs and symptoms have resolved .
5 . 6 Fluid Retention Fluid retention during somatropin therapy may occur .
Clinical manifestations of fluid retention ( e . g . , edema , arthralgia , myalgia , nerve compression syndromes including carpal tunnel syndrome / paresthesia ) are usually transient and dose - dependent .
5 . 7 Hypoadrenalism Patients receiving somatropin therapy who have or are at risk for pituitary hormone deficiency ( s ) may be at risk for reduced serum cortisol levels and / or unmasking of central ( secondary ) hypoadrenalism .
In addition , patients treated with glucocorticoid replacement for previously diagnosed hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress doses following initiation of SKYTROFA therapy .
Monitor patients for reduced serum cortisol levels and / or need for glucocorticoid dose increases in patients with known hypoadrenalism [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 8 Hypothyroidism Undiagnosed or untreated hypothyroidism may prevent optimal response to SKYTROFA .
In patients with GHD , central ( secondary ) hypothyroidism may first become evident or worsen during SKYTROFA treatment .
Therefore , perform periodic thyroid function tests in patients and initiate or appropriately adjust thyroid hormone replacement therapy when indicated .
5 . 9 Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis Slipped capital femoral epiphysis may occur more frequently in patients undergoing rapid growth .
Evaluate pediatric patients with the onset of a limp or complaints of persistent hip or knee pain .
5 . 10 Progression of Preexisting Scoliosis Somatropin increases growth rate , and progression of existing scoliosis can occur in patients who experience rapid growth .
Somatropin has not been shown to increase the occurrence of scoliosis .
Monitor patients with a history of scoliosis for disease progression .
5 . 11 Pancreatitis Pancreatitis has been reported in pediatric patients receiving somatropin .
The risk may be greater in pediatric patients than adults .
Consider pancreatitis in patients who develop persistent severe abdominal pain .
5 . 12 Lipoatrophy When SKYTROFA is administered subcutaneously at the same site over a long period of time , lipoatrophy may result .
Rotate injection sites when administering SKYTROFA to reduce this risk [ see Preparation and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 13 Sudden Death in Pediatric Patients with Prader - Willi Syndrome There have been reports of fatalities after initiating therapy with somatropin in pediatric patients with Prader - Willi syndrome who had one or more of the following risk factors : severe obesity , history of upper airway obstruction or sleep apnea , or unidentified respiratory infection .
Male patients with one or more of these factors may be at greater risk than females .
SKYTROFA is not indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients who have growth failure due to genetically confirmed Prader - Willi syndrome .
5 . 14 Laboratory Tests Serum levels of phosphate , alkaline phosphatase , and parathyroid hormone may increase after somatropin treatment .
If a patient is found to have abnormal laboratory tests , monitor as appropriate .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Increased mortality in patients with acute critical illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Severe hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Increased risk of neoplasms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Intracranial hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Fluid retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypoadrenalism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hypothyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Slipped capital femoral epiphysis in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Progression of preexisting scoliosis in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Lipoatrophy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Sudden death in pediatric patients with Prader - Willi syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in pediatric patients include : viral infection , pyrexia , cough , nausea and vomiting , hemorrhage , diarrhea , abdominal pain , and arthralgia and arthritis ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascendis Pharma Endocrinology , Inc . , at 1 - 844 - 442 - 7236 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
SKYTROFA was studied in a 52 - week , open - label , active - controlled trial in 161 treatment - naïve , prepubertal pediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The subjects ranged in age from 3 . 2 to 13 . 1 years with a mean of 8 . 5 years .
One hundred thirty - two ( 82 % ) of the subjects were male and 29 ( 18 % ) were female .
One subject was Asian , 3 were Black or African American , 152 were Caucasian , and 5 were categorized as " other . "
Table 2 shows common adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with SKYTROFA in this trial .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % SKYTROFA - Treated Pediatric Patients and More Frequently than in Daily Somatropin - Treated Pediatric Patients ( 52 Weeks of Treatment ) Adverse Reactions Daily Somatropin ( N = 56 ) n ( % ) SKYTROFA ( N = 105 ) n ( % ) Adverse reactions that are medically related were grouped to a single preferred term .
Infection , viral 6 ( 11 % ) 16 ( 15 % ) Pyrexia 5 ( 9 % ) 16 ( 15 % ) Cough 4 ( 7 % ) 11 ( 11 % ) Nausea and vomiting 4 ( 7 % ) 11 ( 11 % ) Hemorrhage [ 1 ] 1 ( 2 % ) 7 ( 7 % ) Diarrhea 3 ( 5 % ) 6 ( 6 % ) Abdominal pain 2 ( 4 % ) 6 ( 6 % ) Arthralgia and arthritis [ 2 ] 1 ( 2 % ) 6 ( 6 % ) [ 1 ] Hemorrhage in the SKYTROFA treatment group included epistaxis ( 3 ) , contusion ( 2 ) , petechiae ( 1 ) and eye hemorrhage ( 1 ) .
[ 2 ] Arthralgia and arthritis in the SKYTROFA treatment group included arthralgia ( 5 ) and reactive arthritis ( 1 ) .
Laboratory Tests More SKYTROFA - treated patients shifted from normal baseline levels to elevated phosphate and alkaline phosphatase levels at the end of the trial compared to the daily somatropin group ( 44 . 2 % vs . 30 . 2 % and 19 . 2 % vs . 9 . 4 % , respectively ) ; these laboratory changes occurred intermittently [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 14 ) ] .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to SKYTROFA with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
Anti - lonapegsomatropin - tcgd antibodies were evaluated in samples collected every 3 months in phase 3 trials in pediatric patients with GHD receiving lonapegsomatropin - tcgd .
Mean duration of exposure to SKYTROFA was 70 . 2 weeks .
Of the 304 patients with post - baseline assessments , 19 ( 6 . 3 % ) showed detectable binding antibodies to lonapegsomatropin - tcgd at any time .
No apparent correlation of anti - lonapegsomatropin - tcgd antibodies to adverse events or loss of efficacy was observed .
No neutralizing antibodies to SKYTROFA were detected .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of somatropin products , including SKYTROFA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Severe systemic hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with SKYTROFA and instructions for preventing or managing them .
Table 3 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions with SKYTROFAReplacement Glucocorticoid Treatment Clinical Impact : Microsomal enzyme 11β - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 ( 11βHSD - 1 ) is required for conversion of cortisone to its active metabolite , cortisol , in hepatic and adipose tissue .
Somatropin inhibits 11βHSD - 1 .
Consequently , individuals with untreated growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) have relative increases in 11βHSD - 1 and serum cortisol .
Initiation of SKYTROFA may result in inhibition of 11βHSD - 1 and reduced serum cortisol concentrations .
Intervention : Patients treated with glucocorticoid replacement for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress doses following initiation of SKYTROFA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Examples Cortisone acetate and prednisone may be affected more than others because conversion of these drugs to their biologically active metabolites is dependent on the activity of 11βHSD - 1 .
Pharmacologic Glucocorticoid Therapy and Supraphysiologic Glucocorticoid Treatment Clinical Impact : Pharmacologic glucocorticoid therapy and supraphysiologic glucocorticoid treatment may attenuate the growth - promoting effects of SKYTROFA in pediatric patients .
Intervention : Carefully adjust glucocorticoid replacement dosing in pediatric patients receiving glucocorticoid treatments to avoid both hypoadrenalism and an inhibitory effect on growth .
Cytochrome P450 - Metabolized Drugs Clinical Impact : Limited published data indicate that somatropin treatment increases cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) - mediated antipyrine clearance .
SKYTROFA may alter the clearance of compounds known to be metabolized by CYP450 liver enzymes .
Intervention : Careful monitoring is advisable when SKYTROFA is administered in combination with drugs metabolized by CYP450 liver enzymes .
Oral Estrogen Clinical Impact : Oral estrogens may reduce the serum insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) response to SKYTROFA .
Intervention : Patients receiving oral estrogen replacement may require higher SKYTROFA dosages .
Insulin and / or Other Antihyperglycemic Agents Clinical Impact : Treatment with SKYTROFA may decrease insulin sensitivity , particularly at higher doses .
Intervention : Patients with diabetes mellitus may require adjustment of their doses of insulin and / or other antihyperglycemic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Replacement Glucocorticoid Treatment : Patients treated with glucocorticoid for hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance or stress doses following initiation of SKYTROFA ( 7 ) .
• Pharmacologic Glucocorticoid Therapy and Supraphysiologic Glucocorticoid Treatment : Adjust glucocorticoid dosing in pediatric patients to avoid both hypoadrenalism and an inhibitory effect on growth ( 7 ) .
• Cytochrome P450 - Metabolized Drugs : SKYTROFA may alter the clearance .
Monitor carefully if used with SKYTROFA ( 7 ) .
• Oral Estrogen : Larger doses of SKYTROFA may be required ( 7 ) .
• Insulin and / or Other Antihyperglycemic Agents : Dose adjustment of insulin or antihyperglycemic agent may be required ( 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on lonapegsomatropin - tcgd use in pregnant patients to evaluate a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Available published data over several decades for somatropin , the active component of lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of embryo - fetal or neonatal harm when pregnant rats were administered subcutaneous lonapegsomatropin - tcgd at doses up to 13 - fold the clinical dose of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of birth defects and miscarriages for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No embryonic or fetal development toxicities occurred in rats administered subcutaneous lonapegsomatropin - tcgd at doses up to 13 - fold the clinical dose of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week .
In a peri - and post - natal developmental study in rats , there were no adverse effects on the pregnant / lactating female or on development of the conceptus and the offspring following exposure of the female from implantation through weaning to doses of a structurally related pegylated somatropin prodrug up to 13 - fold the clinical dose of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lonapegsomatropin - tcgd in human milk , effects on the breastfed infant , or effects on milk production .
High molecular weight therapeutic proteins , including lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , are expected to have low passage into human milk and limited systemic exposure in the breastfed infant .
Additionally , published data indicate that exogenous somatropin does not increase normal human milk concentrations of growth hormone .
No adverse effects on the breastfed infant have been reported with somatropin .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for SKYTROFA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from SKYTROFA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of SKYTROFA have been established in pediatric patients 1 year and older and who weigh at least 11 . 5 kg .
Pediatric use was established in a controlled study of 161 treatment - naïve pediatric patients ages 3 to 13 years and by supportive data in pediatric patients 1 year and older [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of SKYTROFA in children less than 1 year of age have not been established .
Use of somatropin in pediatric patients with Prader - Willi syndrome has been associated with reports of sudden death .
SKYTROFA is not indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with growth failure due to genetically confirmed Prader - Willi syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance SKYTROFA is a prodrug of somatropin .
Somatropin is not a controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse Inappropriate use of somatropin may result in significant negative health consequences .
9 . 3 Dependence Somatropin is not associated with drug related withdrawal adverse reactions .
10 OVERDOSAGE Acute overdosage may lead initially to hypoglycemia and subsequently to hyperglycemia .
Overdose with somatropin may cause fluid retention .
Long - term overdosage may result in signs and symptoms of gigantism consistent with the known effects of excess growth hormone .
11 DESCRIPTION Lonapegsomatropin - tcgd is a long - acting prodrug of a human growth hormone ( somatropin ) produced by recombinant DNA technology using E . coli .
Lonapegsomatropin - tcgd consists of a parent drug , somatropin , that is conjugated to a methoxypolyethylene glycol carrier ( 4 × 10 kDa mPEG ) via a proprietary TransCon Linker and has a molecular weight of 63 kDa ( released somatropin is 22 kDa ) .
In vitro assay confirms the minimum potency of released somatropin is NLT 2 . 5 IU / mg .
SKYTROFA ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder available in a single - dose , dual - chamber , prefilled cartridge containing lonapegsomatropin - tcgd in one chamber and the diluent , Water for Injection , in the other chamber .
SKYTROFA prefilled cartridge must be used with SKYTROFA Auto - Injector to provide an automatic mixing step for reconstitution prior to subcutaneous use .
After reconstitution , each prefilled cartridge delivers : • 0 . 273 mL containing 3 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 32 mg ) , trehalose dihydrate ( 22 . 7 mg ) , and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 327 mL containing 3 . 6 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 39 mg ) , trehalose dihydrate ( 27 . 1 mg ) , and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 391 mL containing 4 . 3 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 46 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 32 . 5 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 473 mL containing 5 . 2 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 56 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 39 . 3 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 286 mL containing 6 . 3 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 34 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 21 . 2 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 345 mL containing 7 . 6 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 41 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 25 . 5 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 414 mL containing 9 . 1 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 49 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 30 . 6 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 5 mL containing 11 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 59 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 37 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
• 0 . 605 mL containing 13 . 3 mg lonapegsomatropin - tcgd , succinic acid ( 0 . 71 mg ) and trehalose dihydrate ( 44 . 8 mg ) and tromethamine for pH adjustment to 5 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action SKYTROFA is a pegylated human growth hormone ( somatropin ) for once - weekly subcutaneous injection [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Somatropin binds to the growth hormone ( GH ) receptor in the cell membrane of target cells resulting in intracellular signal transduction and a host of pharmacodynamic effects .
Somatropin has direct tissue and metabolic effects , and indirect effects mediated by insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , including stimulation of chondrocyte differentiation and proliferation , stimulation of hepatic glucose output , protein synthesis and lipolysis .
Somatropin stimulates skeletal growth in pediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) as a result of effects on the growth plates ( epiphyses ) of long bones .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Somatropin released from SKYTROFA produces a dose linear IGF - 1 response , with a change of 0 . 02 mg / kg on average resulting in a change in IGF - 1 standard deviation score ( SDS ) of 0 . 17 .
At steady - state , IGF - 1 levels peak approximately 2 days post - dose , with the average weekly IGF - 1 occurring approximately 4 . 5 days post - dose .
IGF - 1 levels are in the normal range for GHD patients for the majority of the week , similar to daily somatropin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following subcutaneous dose administration , SKYTROFA releases fully active somatropin via autocleavage of the TransCon linker that follows first - order kinetics .
In pediatric patients with GHD , following subcutaneous dose administration of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week SKYTROFA , the observed mean ( CV % ) steady state peak serum concentration ( Cmax ) of lonapegsomatropin - tcgd was 1230 ( 86 . 3 ) ng hGH / mL , and the median time to reach maximum concentrations ( Tmax ) was 25 hours .
For released somatropin , Cmax was 15 . 2 ( 83 . 4 ) ng / mL with a median Tmax of 12 hours .
The mean ( CV % ) somatropin exposure over the one - week dose interval ( area under the curve ) was 500 ( 83 . 8 ) h * ng / mL .
No significant accumulation of lonapegsomatropin - tcgd and somatropin following repeat dose administration was observed .
Cmax of the methoxypolyethylene glycol carrier was 13 . 1 ( 28 . 1 ) µg / mL with a median Tmax of 36 hours .
In healthy adults , following single subcutaneous dose administration in the range of 0 . 24 to 0 . 42 mg / kg of SKYTROFA , exposure of released somatropin increased greater than proportional to dose .
Distribution In pediatric patients with GHD , the mean ( CV % ) steady state apparent volume of distribution of lonapegsomatropin - tcgd after subcutaneous administration of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week SKYTROFA was 0 . 13 ( 109 ) L / kg .
A similar distribution pattern as observed for daily somatropin is expected once somatropin is released from lonapegsomatropin - tcgd .
Elimination Metabolism The metabolism of somatropin involves protein catabolism in both the liver and kidneys .
The methoxypolyethylene glycol carrier is cleared by the kidneys .
Excretion In pediatric patients with GHD , the mean ( CV % ) lonapegsomatropin - tcgd apparent clearance at steady state was 3 . 2 ( 67 ) mL / h / kg following subcutaneous administration of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week SKYTROFA with a mean ( ± SD ) observed half - life of 30 . 7 ( ± 12 . 7 ) hours .
The apparent half - life of somatropin released from lonapegsomatropin - tcgd was approximately 25 hours .
Specific Populations Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis , age , sex , race , and body weight do not have clinically meaningful effects on pharmacokinetics .
Male and Female Patients — No sex - specific pharmacokinetic studies have been performed with SKYTROFA .
The available literature indicates that the pharmacokinetics of somatropin are similar in men and women .
Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment — No specific studies have been performed with SKYTROFA .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenicity , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with lonapegsomatropin - tcgd .
Lonapegsomatropin - tcgd was not mutagenic in the Ames test , in the human chromosomal aberration assay or in the rat bone marrow micronucleus test .
In an animal fertility study , lonapegsomatropin - tcgd was administered via subcutaneous injection to male and female rats before cohabitation , through mating to implantation .
Lonapegsomatropin - tcgd did not affect fertility or early embryo - fetal development at doses up to 20 - fold the clinical dose of 0 . 24 mg / kg / week .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment - Naïve Pediatric Patients with Growth Hormone Deficiency ( NCT02781727 ) A multi - center randomized , open - label , active - controlled , parallel - group phase 3 study was conducted in 161 treatment - naïve , prepubertal pediatric subjects with growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) ; 105 subjects received once - weekly SKYTROFA , and 56 received daily somatropin .
The dose in both arms was 0 . 24 mg / kg / week .
The primary efficacy endpoint was annualized height velocity at Week 52 .
The subjects ranged in age from 3 . 2 to 13 . 1 years with a mean of 8 . 5 years .
One hundred thirty - two ( 82 % ) subjects were male and 29 ( 18 % ) were female .
One subject was Asian , three were Black or African American , 152 were Caucasian , and five were categorized as " other . "
The subjects had a mean baseline height SDS ( standard deviation score ) of - 2 . 9 .
Treatment with once - weekly SKYTROFA for 52 weeks resulted in an annualized height velocity of 11 . 2 cm / year .
Subjects treated with daily somatropin achieved an annualized height velocity of 10 . 3 cm / year after 52 weeks of treatment .
Refer to Table 4 .
Table 4 : Annualized Height Velocity at Week 52 in Pediatric Treatment - Naïve Subjects with Growth Hormone Deficiency Once - Weekly SKYTROFA ( N = 105 ) Daily Somatropin ( N = 56 ) Estimate of Treatment Difference ( 95 % CI ) ( SKYTROFA minus Daily Somatropin ) Annualized Height Velocity ( cm / year ) [ 1 ] 11 . 2 10 . 3 0 . 9 ( 0 . 2 - 1 . 5 ) [ 1 ] The estimates of least square ( LS ) means and 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) are from an ANCOVA model that included baseline age , peak GH levels ( log transformed ) at stimulation test , baseline height SDS – average SDS of parental height as covariates , and treatment and sex as factors .
Missing data were imputed with multiple imputation method .
Height SDS ( change from baseline ) was 1 . 1 in the SKYTROFA arm and 0 . 96 in the daily somatropin arm at Week 52 .
Refer to Table 5 .
Table 5 : Height SDS over 52 Weeks in Pediatric Treatment - Naïve Subjects with Growth Hormone Deficiency Once - Weekly SKYTROFA ( N = 105 ) Daily Somatropin ( N = 56 ) Abbreviations : SDS : Standard deviation score .
Height SDS , baseline - 2 . 9 - 3 . 0 Height SDS , change from baseline [ 1 ] 1 . 1 0 . 96 [ 1 ] Height SDS , change from baseline : The estimates of LS means are from an ANCOVA model that included baseline age , peak GH levels ( log transformed ) at stimulation test and baseline height SDS as covariates , and treatment and sex as factors .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied SKYTROFA ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder available in a single - dose , dual - chamber , prefilled cartridge containing lonapegsomatropin - tcgd in one chamber and the diluent , Water for Injection , in the second chamber .
The dual - chamber glass cartridge is available in 9 strengths ( in somatropin equivalents ) as described in Table 6 .
Table 6 : SKYTROFA PresentationsSKYTROFA NDC 3 mg 73362 - 003 - 01 3 . 6 mg 73362 - 004 - 01 4 . 3 mg 73362 - 005 - 01 5 . 2 mg 73362 - 006 - 01 6 . 3 mg 73362 - 007 - 01 7 . 6 mg 73362 - 008 - 01 9 . 1 mg 73362 - 009 - 01 11 mg 73362 - 010 - 01 13 . 3 mg 73362 - 011 - 01 Each carton contains 4 single - dose prefilled cartridges and 6 sterile , single - use , disposable 0 . 25 mm × 4 mm ( 31 - gauge × 5 / 32 inch ) needles .
The cartridges are for use only with the SKYTROFA Auto - Injector , packaged in a separate carton .
The SKYTROFA Auto - Injector is not supplied with SKYTROFA cartridges but is available for patients with a prescription for SKYTROFA through the Ascendis Pharma Customer Support by calling the toll - free number at 1 - 844 - 442 - 7236 ( 1 - 844 - 44 ASCENDIS ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling • For patients : Refrigerate SKYTROFA cartridges at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the outer carton to protect from light until the expiration date .
Do not freeze .
Alternatively , SKYTROFA outer carton containing blistered cartridges may be stored at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] for up to 6 months and can be returned to refrigeration within the 6 months .
Write the date first removed from the refrigerator in the space provided on the outer carton .
Do not use SKYTROFA beyond the expiration date or 6 months after the date it was first removed from refrigeration ( whichever is earlier ) .
• For pharmacy long - term storage : Store SKYTROFA cartridges refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the outer carton to protect from light until the expiration date .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration Instructions • Advise patients and / or caregivers to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( SKYTROFA Auto - Injector Instructions for Use ( available at www . Skytrofa . com / IFU ) ) .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to call the Ascendis Pharma Customer Support toll - free number at 1 - 844 - 442 - 7236 ( 1 - 844 - 44 ASCENDIS ) for assistance or additional training , if needed .
• Advise patients and / or caregivers to refer to the Instructions for Use that accompanies the SKYTROFA Auto - Injector for complete mixing and administration instructions with illustrations [ see Preparation and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers of proper needle disposal and caution against any reuse of needles .
An appropriate container for the disposal of used cartridge and needle should be used .
• Advise patients and / or caregivers to administer SKYTROFA once weekly , at any time of day .
Advise patients and / or caregivers that doses can be taken 2 days before or 2 days after the scheduled dosing day .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to resume once - weekly dosing for the next dose .
If more than 2 days have passed from the schedule dosing day , advise patients and / or caregivers to skip the missed dose and take the next dose on the regularly scheduled day .
If subsequently changing the regular dosing day to a different day of the week , advise patients and / or caregivers to ensure that at least 5 days will elapse between the last dose and the newly established regular dosing day .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients and / or caregivers that severe and / or serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions ( anaphylaxis and angioedema ) have been reported , and to seek prompt medical attention should an allergic reaction occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Neoplasms Advise childhood cancer survivors and / or caregivers that individuals treated with brain and / or head radiation are at increased risk of secondary neoplasms and , as a precaution , need to be monitored for recurrence .
Advise patients and / or caregivers to report marked changes in behavior , onset of headaches , vision disturbances and / or changes in skin pigmentation or changes in the appearance of preexisting nevi .
Glucose Intolerance / Diabetes Mellitus Advise patients and / or caregivers that new onset impaired glucose intolerance / type 2 diabetes mellitus or exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus can occur and monitoring of blood glucose during treatment with SKYTROFA may be needed .
Intracranial Hypertension Advise patients and / or caregivers to report to their healthcare provider any visual changes , headache , and nausea and / or vomiting .
Fluid Retention Advise patients and / or caregivers that fluid retention during SKYTROFA replacement therapy may occur .
Inform patients and / or caregivers of the clinical manifestations of fluid retention ( e . g . , edema , arthralgia , myalgia , nerve compression syndromes including carpal tunnel syndrome / paresthesia ) and to report to their healthcare provider if any of these signs or symptoms occur during treatment with SKYTROFA .
Hypoadrenalism Advise patients and / or caregivers that patients who have or who are at risk for pituitary hormone deficiency ( s ) that hypoadrenalism may develop and to report to their healthcare provider if they experience hyperpigmentation , extreme fatigue , dizziness , weakness , or weight loss .
Hypothyroidism Advise patients and / or caregivers that undiagnosed / untreated hypothyroidism may prevent an optimal response to SKYTROFA .
Advise patients / caregivers that patients may require periodic thyroid function tests .
Pancreatitis Advise patients and / or caregivers that pancreatitis may develop and to report to their healthcare provider any new onset abdominal pain .
© 2021 Ascendis Pharma .
All rights reserved .
SKYTROFA ® , Ascendis ® , TransCon ® , the Ascendis Pharma logo and the company logo are trademarks owned by the Ascendis Pharma Group .
PATENT INFORMATION : www . ascendispharma . us / products / patents Manufactured by : Ascendis Pharma Endocrinology Division A / S Tuborg Boulevard 12 Hellerup Denmark DK - 2900 U . S . License Number 2165 For information about SKYTROFA contact : Ascendis Pharma Endocrinology , Inc . 902 Carnegie Center Boulevard Princeton , New Jersey 08540 , USA 1 - 844 - 442 - 7236 ( 1 - 844 - 44 ASCENDIS ) www . Skytrofa . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 3 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 126353 NDC 73362 - 003 - 01 GTIN : 00373362003010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 . 6 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 3 . 6 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122295 NDC 73362 - 004 - 01 GTIN : 00373362004017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 . 3 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 4 . 3 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122296 NDC 73362 - 005 - 01 GTIN : 00373362005014 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 . 2 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 5 . 2 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 123431 NDC 73362 - 006 - 01 GTIN : 00373362006011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 . 3 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 6 . 3 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122298 NDC 73362 - 007 - 01 GTIN : 00373362007018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 7 . 6 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 7 . 6 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122299 NDC 73362 - 008 - 01 GTIN : 00373362008015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 . 1 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 9 . 1 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122300 NDC 73362 - 009 - 01 GTIN : 007373362009012 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 11 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 11 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 122301 NDC 73362 - 010 - 01 GTIN : 00373362010018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 13 . 3 mg Cartridge Blister Pack Carton Skytrofa ™ ( lonapegsomatropin - tcgd ) for injection 13 . 3 mg Box with : 4 single - dose cartridges and 6 sterile injection needles OPEN HERE 126350 NDC 73362 - 011 - 01 GTIN : 00373362011015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
