Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Capsaicin 0 . 035 % Topical analgesic Menthol 3 % Topical analgesic Uses temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • bruises • strains • sprains Warnings • For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • do not bandage • do not use with a heating pad • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days .
• if severe burning sensation occurs , discontinue use • do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight • do not use if you are allergic to capsaicin or chili peppers Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health care professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children over 18 years : • apply to affected area • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed • repeat if necessary , but no more than 3 to 4 times daily • WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER AFTER APPLYING • children 18 years and younger : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer , ethyl alcohol , germaben II , triethanolamine , water Questions or comments ?
Call us toll free at ( 877 ) 514 - 3132 between 9 am and 4 pm ( PST ) , Monday through Friday .
Visit us on the web at lakotaherbs . com Manufactured exclusively for and distributed by : Natural Pain Relief Agency Inc .
Phoenix , AZ 85086 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 mL Bottle Box LaKOTA ® SOFT - TOUCH PAIN RELIEVER Extra Strength Pain Reliever Capsaicin and Menthol - Topical analgesic 57 mL ( 2 fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
