Rx only For Intramuscular ( IM ) or Intravenous ( IV ) administration .
DESCRIPTION : Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP is a synthetic anticholinergic agent .
Each 1 mL contains : Glycopyrrolate , USP 0 . 2 mg , Water for Injection , USP q . s . pH adjusted , when necessary , with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
Solution does not contain preservatives .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium salt with the following chemical name : 3 [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl pyrrolidinium bromide .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glycopyrrolate occurs as a white , odorless crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and alcohol , and practically insoluble in chloroform and ether .
Unlike atropine , glycopyrrolate is completely ionized at physiological pH values .
Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP is a clear , colorless , sterile liquid ; pH 2 . 0 to 3 . 0 .
The partition coefficient of glycopyrrolate in a n - octanol / water system is 0 . 304 ( log 10 P = - 1 . 52 ) at ambient room temperature ( 24 ° C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are highly non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
With intravenous injection , the onset of action is generally evident within one minute .
Following intramuscular administration , the onset of action is noted in 15 to 30 minutes , with peak effects occurring within approximately 30 to 45 minutes .
The vagal blocking effects persist for 2 to 3 hours and the antisialagogue effects persist up to 7 hours , periods longer than for atropine .
Pharmacokinetics The following pharmacokinetic information and conclusions were obtained from published studies that used nonspecific assay methods .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of glycopyrrolate was estimated to be 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 L / kg .
Metabolism The in vivo metabolism of glycopyrrolate in humans has not been studied .
Excretion The mean clearance and mean t 1 / 2 values were reported to be 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 L / kg / hr and 0 . 83 ± 0 . 13 hr , respectively post IV administration .
After IV administration of a 0 . 2 mg radiolabeled glycopyrrolate , 85 % of dose recovered was recovered in urine 48 hours postdose and some of the radioactivity was also recovered in bile .
After IM administration of glycopyrrolate to adults , the mean t 1 / 2 value is reported to be between 0 . 55 to 1 . 25 hrs .
Over 80 % of IM dose administered was recovered in urine and the bile as unchanged drug and half the IM dose is excreted within 3 hrs .
The following table summarizes the mean and standard deviation of pharmacokinetic parameters from a study .
* 0 to 8 hr Group t 1 / 2 ( hr ) V ss ( L / kg ) CL ( L / kg / hr ) T max ( min ) C max ( mcg / L ) AUC ( mcg / L ● hr ) ( 6 mcg / kg IV ) 0 . 83 ± 0 . 27 0 . 42 ± 0 . 22 0 . 54 ± 0 . 14 - - 8 . 64 ± 1 . 49 * ( 8 mcg / kg IM ) - - - 27 . 48 ± 6 . 12 3 . 47 ± 1 . 48 6 . 64 ± 2 . 33 * Special Populations Gender Gender differences in pharmacokinetics of glycopyrrolate have not been investigated .
Renal Impairment In one study glycopyrrolate was administered IV in uremic patients undergoing renal transplantation .
The mean elimination half - life was significantly longer ( 46 . 8 minutes ) than in healthy patients ( 18 . 6 minutes ) .
The mean area - under - the - concentration - time curve ( 10 . 6 hr - mcg / L ) , mean plasma clearance ( 0 . 43 L / hr / kg ) , and mean 3 - hour urine excretion ( 0 . 7 % ) for glycopyrrolate were also significantly different than those of controls ( 3 . 73 hr - mcg / L , 1 . 14 L / hr / kg , and 50 % , respectively ) .
These results suggest that the elimination of glycopyrrolate is severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetic information in patients with hepatic impairment is unavailable .
Pediatrics Following IV administration ( 5 mcg / kg glycopyrrolate ) to infants and children , the mean t 1 / 2 values were reported to be between 21 . 6 and 130 . 0 minutes and between 19 . 2 and 99 . 2 minutes , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : In Anesthesia Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP is indicated for use as a preoperative antimuscarinic to reduce salivary , tracheobronchial , and pharyngeal secretions ; to reduce the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions ; and to block cardiac vagal inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation .
When indicated , Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP may be used intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug - induced or vagal reflexes associated arrhythmias .
Glycopyrrolate protects against the peripheral muscarinic effects ( e . g . , bradycardia and excessive secretions ) of cholinergic agents such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine given to reverse the neuromuscular blockade due to non - depolarizing muscle relaxants .
In Peptic Ulcer For use in adults as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients .
In addition , in the management of peptic ulcer patients , because of the longer duration of therapy , glycopyrrolate injection may be contraindicated in patients with the following concurrent conditions : glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
WARNINGS : This drug should be used with great caution , if at all , in patients with glaucoma .
Glycopyrrolate injection may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be cautioned regarding activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
In addition , in the presence of fever , high environmental temperature and / or during physical exercise , heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents including glycopyrrolate ( due to decreased sweating ) , particularly in children and the elderly .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with glycopyrrolate injection would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
PRECAUTIONS : General Investigate any tachycardia before giving glycopyrrolate injection since an increase in the heart rate may occur .
Use with caution in patients with : coronary artery disease ; congestive heart failure ; cardiac arrhythmias ; hypertension ; hyperthyroidism .
Use with caution in patients with renal disease since the renal elimination of glycopyrrolate may be severely impaired in patients with renal failure .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary ( see Pharmacokinetics , Renal Impairment ) .
Use glycopyrrolate with caution in the elderly and in all patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic disease , ulcerative colitis , prostic hypertrophy , or hiatal hernia , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate these conditions .
The use of anticholinergetic drugs in the treatment of gastric ulcer may produce a delay in gastric emptying due to antral statis .
Information for the Patient Because glycopyrrolate injection may produce drowsiness or blurred vision , the patient should be cautioned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness and / or visual acuity such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking this drug ( see WARNINGS ) .
The patient also should be cautioned about the use of this drug during exercise or hot weather since overheating may result in heat stroke .
The patient may experience a possible sensitivity of the eyes to light .
Drug Interactions The concurrent use of glycopyrrolate injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity , such as phenothiazines , antiparkinson drugs , or tricyclic antidepressants , may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and may result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects .
Concomitant administration of glycopyrrolate injection and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride - induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential of glycopyrrolate have not been conducted .
In reproduction studies in rats , dietary administration of glycopyrrolate resulted in diminished rates of conception in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies with glycopyrrolate were performed in rats at a dietary dose of approximately 65 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 320 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of 2 mg on a mg / m 2 basis ) and rabbits at intramuscular doses of up to 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( exposure was approximately 5 times the maximum recommended daily human dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
These studies produced no teratogenic effects to the fetus .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Single - dose studies in humans found that very small amounts of glycopyrrolate passed the placental barrier .
Nonteratogenic Effects Published literature suggest the following regarding the use of glycopyrrolate during pregnancy .
Unlike atropine , glycopyrrolate in normal doses ( 0 . 004 mg / kg ) does not appear to affect fetal heart rate or fetal heart rate variability to a significant degree .
Concentrations of glycopyrrolate in umbilical venous and arterial blood and in the amniotic fluid are low after intramuscular administration to parturients .
Therefore , glycopyrrolate does not appear to penetrate through the placental barrier in significant amounts .
In reproduction studies in rats , dietary administration of glycopyrrolate resulted in diminished rats of pup survival in a dose - related manner .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when glycopyrrolate injection is administered to a nursing woman .
As with other anticholinergics , glycopyrrolate may cause suppression of lactation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established for the management of peptic ulcer .
Dysrhythmias associated with the use of glycopyrrolate intravenously as a premedicant or during anesthesia have been observed in pediatric patients .
Infants , patients with Down ' s syndrome , and pediatric patients with spastic paralysis or brain damage may experience an increased response to anticholinergics , thus increasing the potential for side effects .
A paradoxical reaction characterized by hyperexcitability may occur in pediatric patients taking large doses of anticholinergics including glycopyrrolate injection .
Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effects of anticholinergics .
Geriatric Use Clinical Studies of glycopyrrolate injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Anticholinergics , including glycopyrrolate injection , can produce certain effects , most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions .
Adverse reactions may include xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis ( dilation of the pupil ) ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; decreased sweating ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ; hypersensitivity ; urticaria , pruritus , dry skin , and other dermal manifestations ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement , especially in elderly persons .
In addition , the following adverse events have been reported from post - marketing experience with glycopyrrolate : malignant hyperthermia ; cardiac arrhythmias ( including bradycardia , ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation ) ; cardiac arrest ; hypertension ; hypotension ; seizures ; and respiratory arrest .
Post - marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase .
Injection site reactions including pruritus , edema , erythema , and pain have also been reported .
Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound ; hence , its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide .
For this reason the occurrence of CNS - related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
OVERDOSAGE : To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects , a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase such as neostigmine methylsulfate ( which does not cross the blood - brain barrier ) may be given intravenously in increments of 0 . 25 mg in adults .
This dosage may be repeated every five to ten minutes until anticholinergic overactivity is reversed or up to a maximum of 2 . 5 mg .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
Indication for repetitive doses of neostigmine should be based on close monitoring of the decrease in heart rate and the return of bowel sounds .
If CNS symptoms ( e . g . , excitement , restlessness , convulsions , psychotic behavior ) occur , physostigmine ( which does cross the blood – brain barrier ) may be used .
Physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg should be slowly administered intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg in adults .
Proportionately smaller doses should be used in pediatric patients .
To combat hypotension , administer IV fluids and / or pressor agents along with supportive care .
Fever should be treated symptomatically .
Following overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
In the event of a curare - like effect on respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Glycopyrrolate injection may be administered intramuscularly , or intravenously , without dilution , in the following indications .
Adults Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0 . 004 mg / kg by intramuscular injection , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Intraoperative Medication Glycopyrrolate injection may be used during surgery to counteract drug - induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias ( e . g . , bradycardia ) .
It should be administered intravenously as single doses of 0 . 1 mg and repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 . 0 mg of neostigmine or 5 . 0 mg of pyridostigmine .
In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects , the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe .
Peptic Ulcer The usual recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0 . 1 mg administered at 4 - hour intervals , 3 or 4 times daily intravenously or intramuscularly .
Where more profound effect is required , 0 . 2 mg may be given .
Some patients may need only a single dose , and frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily .
Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Pediatric Patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) Preanesthetic Medication The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection in pediatric patients is 0 . 004 mg / kg intramuscularly , given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and / or sedative are administered .
Infants ( 1 month to 2 years of age ) may require up to 0 . 009 mg / kg .
Intraoperative Medication Because of the long duration of action of glycopyrrolate injection if used as preanesthetic medication , additional glycopyrrolate injection for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed ; in the event it is required the recommended pediatric dose is 0 . 004 mg / kg intravenously , not to exceed 0 . 1 mg in a single dose which may be repeated , as needed , at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes .
The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia , and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed .
Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade The recommended pediatric dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0 . 2 mg for each 1 . 0 mg of neostigmine or 5 . 0 mg of pyridostigmine .
In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects , the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe .
Peptic Ulcer Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5 % and 10 % in water , or saline , dextrose 5 % in sodium chloride 0 . 45 % , sodium chloride 0 . 9 % , and Ringer ' s Injection .
Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer ' s solution .
Admixture Compatibilities Physical Compatibility This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co - administration of glycopyrrolate with these drugs .
Glycopyrrolate injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms : atropine sulfate , USP ; Antilirium ® ( physostigmine salicylate ) ; Benadryl ® ( diphenhydramine HCl ) ; codeine phosphate , USP ; Emete - Con ® ( benz - quinamide HCl ) ; hydromorphone HCl , USP ; Inapsine ® ( droperidol ) ; Levo - Dromoran ® ( levorphanol tartrate ) ; lidocaine , USP ; meperidine HCl , USP ; Mestinon ® / Regonol ® ( pyridostigmine bromide ) ; morphine sulfate , USP ; Nubain ® ( nalbuphine HCl ) ; Numorphan ® ( oxymorphone HCl ) ; procaine HCl , USP ; promethazine HCl , USP ; Prostigmin ® ( neostigmine methylsulfate , USP ) ; scopolamine HBr , USP ; Stadol ® ( butorphanol tartrate ) ; Sublimaze ® ( fentanyl citrate ) ; Tigan ® ( trimethobenzamide HCl ) ; and Vistaril ® ( hydroxyzine HCl ) .
Glycopyrrolate injection may be administered via the tubing of a running infusion of normal saline .
Admixture Incompatibilities Physical Incompatibility Since the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6 . 0 do not combine glycopyrrolate injection in the same syringe with Brevital ® ( methohexital Na ) ; Chloromycetin ® ( chloramphenicol Na succinate ) ; Dramamine ® ( dimenhydrinate ) ; Nembutal ® ( pentobarbital Na ) ; Pentothal ® ( thiopental Na ) ; Seconal ® ( secobarbital Na ) ; sodium bicarbonate ( Abbott ) ; Valium ® ( diazepam ) ; Decadron ® ( dexamethasone Na phosphate ) ; or Talwin ® ( pentazocine lactate ) .
These mixtures will result in a pH higher than 6 . 0 and may result in gas production or precipitation .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING : Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg per mL without preservative is available as : Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each RF720310 NDC 76045 - 206 - 10 Unit of 24 0 . 2 mg / mL NDC 76045 - 206 - 01 1 mL Pre - filled disposable syringe This product contains an RFID .
720310 NDC 76045 - 203 - 10 Unit of 24 0 . 2 mg / mL NDC 76045 - 203 - 01 1 mL Pre - filled disposable syringe RF720320 NDC 76045 - 208 - 20 Unit of 24 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) NDC 76045 - 208 - 02 2 mL Pre - filled disposable syringe This product contains an RFID .
720320 NDC 76045 - 203 - 20 Unit of 24 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) NDC 76045 - 203 - 02 2 mL Pre - filled disposable syringe Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Sensitive to heat – Do not autoclave .
Do not place syringe on a sterile field .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Figure 1 : Outer Packaging and Prefilled Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] NOTES : • - Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time .
• - Do not dilute for IV push .
• - Do not re - sterilize the syringe .
• - Do not use this product on a sterile field .
• - This product is for single dose only .
• Inspect the outer packaging ( blister pack ) to confirm the integrity of the packaging .
Do not use if the blister pack or the prefilled syringe has been damaged .
• Remove the syringe from the outer packaging .
( See Figure 2 ) Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Visually inspect the syringe .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• Twist off the syringe tip cap .
Do not remove the label around the luer lock collar .
( See Figure 3 ) Figure 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Expel air bubble ( s ) .
Adjust the dose ( if applicable ) .
• Administer the dose ensuring that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration .
• Discard the used syringe into an appropriate receptacle .
For more information concerning this drug , please call Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The brand names mentioned in this document are the trademarks of their respective owners .
U . S . Patent 9 , 731 , 082 [ MULTIMEDIA ] www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451549 B Revised : 09 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Carton Panel Rx only NDC 76045 - 206 - 10 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
24 x 1 mL prefilled single dose syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Blister Pack Label RF720310 NDC 76045 - 206 - 01 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL For IM or IV Use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Syringe Label 1 mL Single dose .
For IM or IV use .
Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Carton Panel Rx only NDC 76045 - 203 - 10 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
24 x 1 mL prefilled single dose syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Blister Pack Label Rx only NDC 76045 - 203 - 01 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL For IM or IV Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 1 mL Syringe Label 1 mL Single dose .
For IM or IV use .
Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 2 mg / mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Carton Panel Rx only NDC 76045 - 208 - 20 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
24 x 2 mL prefilled single dose syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Blister Pack Label RF720320 NDC 76045 - 208 - 02 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Syringe Label 2 mL Single dose .
For IM or IV use .
Rx only Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Carton Panel Rx only NDC 76045 - 203 - 20 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
Do NOT place syringe on a Sterile Field .
24 x 2 mL prefilled single dose syringes Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Blister Pack Label Rx only NDC 76045 - 203 - 02 Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) For Intramuscular or Intravenous use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Glycopyrrolate 2 mL Syringe Label 2 mL Single dose .
For IM or IV Use .
Rx only Glycopyrrolate Injection , USP 0 . 4 mg / 2 mL ( 0 . 2 mg / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
