Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) 11 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) 11 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KEVEYIS is indicated for the treatment of primary hyperkalemic periodic paralysis , primary hypokalemic periodic paralysis , and related variants .
KEVEYIS is an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of primary hyperkalemic periodic paralysis , primary hypokalemic periodic paralysis , and related variants ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initiate dosing at 50 mg by mouth once or twice daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Titrate up or down dose based on individual response ( 2 . 1 ) • The minimum recommended dosage is 50 mg daily , and the maximum recommended dosage is 200 mg daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Evaluate response to KEVEYIS after 2 months of treatment ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information Initiate dosing at 50 mg by mouth once or twice daily .
The dosage may be increased or decreased based on individual response , at weekly intervals ( or sooner in case of adverse reaction ) .
The minimum recommended total daily dosage is 50 mg , and the maximum recommended total daily dosage is 200 mg .
2 . 2 Monitoring to Assess Effectiveness Primary hyperkalemic periodic paralysis , primary hypokalemic periodic paralysis , and related variants are a heterogeneous group of conditions , for which the response to KEVEYIS may vary .
Therefore , prescribers should evaluate the patient ' s response to KEVEYIS after 2 months of treatment to decide whether KEVEYIS should be continued .
2 . 3 Monitoring to Assess Safety Baseline and periodic measurements of serum potassium and serum bicarbonate during KEVEYIS treatment is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Round , white tablets , scored on one side , engraved with " D " above the score and " 50 " below the score , the other side is plain , 50 mg each .
Tablets : 50 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS KEVEYIS is contraindicated in the following circumstances : • Hypersensitivity to dichlorphenamide or other sulfonamides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Concomitant use of KEVEYIS and high dose aspirin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Severe pulmonary disease , limiting compensation to metabolic acidosis caused by KEVEYIS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hepatic insufficiency : KEVEYIS may aggravate hepatic encephalopathy .
• Hepatic insufficiency ( 4 ) • Severe pulmonary obstruction ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to dichlorphenamide or other sulfonamides ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with high dose aspirin ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity and Other Life - Threatening Reactions : discontinue KEVEYIS at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of immune - mediated or idiosyncratic adverse reaction ( 5 . 1 ) • Hypokalemia : baseline and periodic measurements of serum potassium are recommended ; if hypokalemia develops or persists , consider reducing the dose or discontinuing KEVEYIS and correcting potassium levels ( 5 . 3 ) • Metabolic acidosis : baseline and periodic measurements of serum bicarbonate are recommended ; if metabolic acidosis develops or persists , consider reducing the dose or discontinuing KEVEYIS ( 5 . 4 ) • Falls : consider reducing the dose or discontinuing KEVEYIS in patients who experience falls ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity and Other Life - Threatening Reactions Fatalities associated with the administration of sulfonamides have occurred because of adverse reactions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias .
Pulmonary involvement can occur in isolation or as part of a systemic reaction .
KEVEYIS should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of immune - mediated or other life - threatening adverse reaction .
5 . 2 Concomitant Use of Aspirin or Other Salicylates Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , including KEVEYIS , can cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , which can increase the risk of salicylate toxicity .
Anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , and coma have been reported with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high - dose aspirin .
Therefore , the concomitant use of KEVEYIS and high - dose aspirin is contraindicated .
Patients with concomitant use of KEVEYIS and low - dose aspirin should be carefully monitored .
5 . 3 Hypokalemia KEVEYIS increases potassium excretion and can cause hypokalemia .
The risk of hypokalemia is greater when KEVEYIS is used in patients with conditions associated with hypokalemia ( e . g . , adrenocortical excess , renal tubular acidosis type 1 and 2 ) , and in patients receiving other drugs that may cause hypokalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Baseline and periodic measurements of serum potassium during KEVEYIS treatment is recommended .
If hypokalemia develops or persists , consideration should be given to reducing the dose or discontinuing KEVEYIS and correction of potassium levels .
5 . 4 Metabolic Acidosis KEVEYIS can cause hyperchloremic non - anion gap metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of KEVEYIS with other drugs that cause metabolic acidosis may increase the severity of acidosis .
Concomitant use of KEVEYIS in compensated patients with respiratory acidosis , such as in advanced lung diseases , may lead to respiratory decompensation .
Baseline and periodic measurements of serum bicarbonate during KEVEYIS treatment are recommended .
If metabolic acidosis develops or persists , consideration should be given to reducing the dose or discontinuing KEVEYIS [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Falls KEVEYIS increases the risk of falls .
The risk of falls is greater in the elderly and with higher doses of KEVEYIS .
Consider dose reduction or discontinuation of KEVEYIS in patients who experience falls while treated with KEVEYIS .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Hypersensitivity and Other Life - Threatening Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Metabolic Acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Falls [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence at least 10 % and greater than placebo ) include paresthesias , cognitive disorder , dysgeusia , and confusional state ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Xeris Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 324 - 8912 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In a 9 - week randomized controlled trial in adults with hyperkalemic or hypokalemic periodic paralysis ( Study 1 ) , the most common adverse reactions in patients treated with KEVEYIS , with rates greater than placebo , were paresthesia , cognitive disorder , dysgeusia , and confusional state .
The mean dose of KEVEYIS was 94 mg / day in patients with hypokalemic periodic paralysis and 82 mg / day in patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis .
Table 1 lists the incidence of adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients treated with KEVEYIS and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo in Study 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in Patients Treated with KEVEYIS with Incidence ≥ 5 % and more common than in Patients Treated with Placebo in Study 1 Adverse Reaction KEVEYIS N = 36 ( % ) Placebo N = 29 ( % ) Nervous system disorders Paresthesia 44 14 Cognitive disorder [ 1 ] 14 7 Dysgeusia 14 0 Confusional state 11 0 Headache 8 7 Hypoesthesia 8 0 Lethargy 8 0 Dizziness 6 0 Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 6 3 Nausea 6 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 8 0 Malaise 6 0 Investigations Weight decreased 6 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscle spasms 8 0 Arthralgia 6 3 Muscle twitching 6 0 Respiratory Dyspnea 6 0 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 6 0 Skin Rash 8 0 Pruritus 6 0 [ 1 ] Cognitive disorder combined cases with the preferred terms of cognitive disorder , disturbance in attention , and mental impairment .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of dichlorphenamide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following are adverse reactions which have been reported during postapproval use of dichlorphenamide and were serious or are not reported in the previous section of labeling [ see Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] : amnesia , cardiac failure , condition aggravated , convulsion , hallucination , nephrolithiasis , pancytopenia , psychotic disorder , renal tubular necrosis , stupor , syncope , tremor .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin : anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , and coma have been reported with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high - dose aspirin .
The concomitant use of KEVEYIS and high - dose aspirin is contraindicated .
KEVEYIS should be used with caution in patients receiving lower doses of aspirin ( 4 , 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Aspirin and Other Salicylates Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , including KEVEYIS , can cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] , which can increase the risk of salicylate toxicity .
Anorexia , tachypnea , lethargy , and coma have been reported with concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high - dose aspirin .
Therefore , concomitant use of KEVEYIS and high - dose aspirin is contraindicated .
Patients with concomitant use of KEVEYIS and low - dose aspirin should be carefully monitored [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drugs that are Substrates of Organic Anion Transporter1 ( OAT1 ) In vitro , dichlorphenamide is an inhibitor of OAT1 transporters .
The concomitant administration of KEVEYIS may increase the plasma exposures of OAT1 substrates .
Use of KEVEYIS with drugs that are sensitive to OAT1 inhibition ( e . g . , methotrexate , famotidine , oseltamivir ) is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Drugs that Cause Hypokalemia The risk of hypokalemia is greater with coadministration of KEVEYIS and other drugs that can cause hypokalemia ( e . g . , loop diuretics , thiazide diuretics , laxatives , antifungals , penicillins , and theophylline ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs that Cause Metabolic Acidosis Coadministration of KEVEYIS and other drugs that can cause metabolic acidosis may increase the severity of the acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 5 Drugs that are Inhibitors of OAT1 or OAT3 An in vitro transporter study indicated that dichlorphenamide is a substrate of human transporters OAT1 and OAT3 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , signs of dichlorphenamide toxicity should be monitored when administered with OAT1 or OAT3 inhibitors .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of KEVEYIS in pregnant women .
A no - effect dose has not been established .
Dichlorphenamide was teratogenic when administered orally to pregnant rats .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % , and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions KEVEYIS treatment can cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
The effect of dichlorphenamide - induced metabolic acidosis has not been studied in pregnancy ; however , metabolic acidosis in pregnancy ( due to other causes ) can cause decreased fetal growth , decreased fetal oxygenation , and fetal death , and may affect the fetus ’ ability to tolerate labor .
Pregnant patients should be monitored for metabolic acidosis and treated as in the nonpregnant state .
Newborns of mothers treated with KEVEYIS should be monitored for metabolic acidosis because of possible occurrence of transient metabolic acidosis following birth .
Labor or Delivery Although the effect of KEVEYIS on labor and delivery in humans has not been established , the development of dichlorphenamide - induced metabolic acidosis in the mother and / or in the fetus might affect the fetus ’ ability to tolerate labor .
Data Animal Data Teratogenic effects ( fetal limb reduction defects ) were reported following oral administration of dichlorphenamide to pregnant rats during organogenesis at 350 mg / kg , or 17 times the maximum recommended human dose ( 200 mg / day ) on a body surface area ( mg / m 2 ) basis .
A no - effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development has not been established .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dichlorphenamide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for KEVEYIS and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from KEVEYIS or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of KEVEYIS in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The risk of falls and of metabolic acidosis are greater in elderly patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of overdosage or toxicity may include drowsiness , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , ataxia , tremor , and tinnitus .
In the event of overdosage , induce emesis or perform gastric lavage .
The electrolyte disturbances most likely to be encountered from overdosage are hypokalemia and hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
11 DESCRIPTION KEVEYIS tablets contain dichlorphenamide , an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor .
Dichlorphenamide , a dichlorinated benzenedisulfonamide , is known chemically as 4 , 5 – dichloro - 1 , 3 - benzenedisulfonamide .
Its empirical formula is C 6 H 6 Cl 2 N 2 O 4 S 2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dichlorphenamide USP is a white or practically white , crystalline compound with a molecular weight of 305 . 16 .
It is very slightly soluble in water but soluble in dilute solutions of sodium carbonate and sodium hydroxide .
Dilute alkaline solutions of dichlorphenamide are stable at room temperature .
KEVEYIS ( dichlorphenamide ) tablets are supplied as tablets , for oral administration , each containing 50 mg dichlorphenamide .
Inactive ingredients are lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dichlorphenamide is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor .
However , the precise mechanism by which dichlorphenamide exerts its therapeutic effects in patients with primary periodic paralysis is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics KEVEYIS can cause metabolic acidosis , which can increase the risk of salicylate toxicity with coadministration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
KEVEYIS - induced metabolic acidosis can also increase in severity with coadministration of other drugs that cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After single - dose administration in healthy subjects in fasted state , dichlorphenamide C max and AUC increased in a dose - proportional manner within the range of 25 mg to 400 mg ( 2 times the maximum recommended dose ) .
The steady - state is expected to be achieved within 10 days of twice - daily dosing .
Absorption The median time to reach maximum concentration ( T max ) of dichlorphenamide was about 1 . 5 to 3 hours postdose after both single and multiple dose administrations .
Distribution The plasma protein binding of dichlorphenamide is approximately 88 % .
Elimination Following a single - dose administration , mean terminal half - life was in the range of 32 to 66 hours .
Metabolism Dichlorphenamide is not a substrate for CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 isoforms when tested in vitro .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug - Metabolizing Enzyme Inhibition Dichlorphenamide is not an inhibitor for CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 enzymes when tested in vitro .
Drug - Metabolizing Enzyme Induction Dichlorphenamide is not an inducer for CYP1A2 , 2B6 , or 3A4 enzymes when tested in vitro .
In vitro Assessment of Transporter - Drug Interactions Dichlorphenamide is neither a substrate nor inhibitor for p - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT2 , OAT4 , OCT1 , OCT2 , MATE1 , or MATE2 - K when tested in vitro .
Dichlorphenamide is not an inhibitor of OAT3 , but is an inhibitor of OAT1 based on in vitro studies [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Dichlorphenamide is a substrate for transporters OAT1 and OAT3 based on in vitro studies [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
In Vivo Drug Interactions The use of dichlorphenamide in combination with high - dose aspirin is contraindicated as it may lead to salicylate toxicity .
The mechanism ( s ) of this interaction is not known .
Specific Populations Geriatrics The pharmacokinetics of dichlorphenamide in the elderly has not been determined .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of dichlorphenamide have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Studies to assess the genotoxicity of dichlorphenamide have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess the effects of dichlorphenamide on fertility have not been conducted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of KEVEYIS was evaluated in two clinical studies , Study 1 and Study 2 .
Study 1 Study 1 was a 9 - week , double blind , placebo - controlled multi - center study .
Study 1 consisted of two substudies : a substudy in patients with hypokalemic periodic paralysis ( n = 44 ) , and a substudy in patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis ( n = 21 ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint in both substudies was the average number of self - reported attacks of muscle weakness per week over the final 8 weeks of the trial .
Withdrawal from the study for acute severe worsening ( increase in attack frequency or severity ) was also assessed as an endpoint .
In Study 1 , the dose of KEVEYIS was 50 mg b . i . d . for treatment - naïve patients .
Patients already on dichlorphenamide prior to the study continued on the same dose while on KEVEYIS during the study .
In patients taking acetazolamide prior to the study , the dose of KEVEYIS was set at 20 % of the acetazolamide dose .
Dose reduction for tolerability was permitted .
Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis Substudy of Study 1 In the hypokalemic periodic paralysis substudy , median age of patients was 45 years and 73 % of patients were male .
Patients treated with KEVEYIS ( n = 24 ) had 2 . 2 fewer attacks per week than patients ( n = 20 ) treated with placebo ( p = 0 . 02 ) .
None of the patients randomized to KEVEYIS reached the endpoint of withdrawal from the study for acute worsening , vs . five patients randomized to placebo .
The mean dose of KEVEYIS at Week 9 was 94 mg / day .
Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis Substudy of Study 1 In the Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis substudy , median age of patients was 43 years and 43 % of patients were male .
During the double - blind treatment period , patients treated with KEVEYIS ( n = 12 ) had 3 . 9 fewer attacks per week than patients ( n = 9 ) treated with placebo ( p = 0 . 08 ) .
None of the patients randomized to KEVEYIS reached the endpoint of withdrawal from the study for acute worsening , vs . two patients randomized to placebo .
The mean dose of KEVEYIS at Week 9 was 82 mg / day .
Study 2 Study 2 was a 35 - week , double blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center , two - period crossover study .
Study 2 also consisted of two substudies : a substudy in patients with hypokalemic periodic paralysis ( n = 42 ) , and a substudy in patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis ( n = 31 ) , including patients with Paramyotonia Congenita .
The primary endpoint in the hypokalemic periodic paralysis substudy was the incidence of acute intolerable worsening ( based on attack frequency or severity ) necessitating withdrawal .
The primary endpoint in the hyperkalemic periodic paralysis substudy was the average number of self - reported attacks of muscle weakness per week .
Dosing was determined similarly to Study 1 .
Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis Substudy of Study 2 The hypokalemic periodic paralysis substudy included patients with a mean age of 38 years ; 79 % of patients were male .
Acute intolerable worsening was observed in 2 patients on KEVEYIS vs . 11 patients on placebo ( p = 0 . 02 ) .
The mean dose of KEVEYIS at the end of the study was 96 mg / day .
Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis Substudy of Study 2 The hyperkalemic periodic paralysis substudy included patients with a mean age of 37 years ; and 79 % of patients were male .
Patients treated had 2 . 3 fewer attacks per week on KEVEYIS than on placebo ( p = 0 . 006 ) .
The mean dose of KEVEYIS at the end of the study was 73 mg / day .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each KEVEYIS ( dichlorphenamide ) tablet , 50 mg is round , white , scored on one side , engraved with " D " above the score and " 50 " below the score .
The other side is plain .
KEVEYIS ( dichlorphenamide ) tablets are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 ...................................... NDC 72065 - 001 - 01 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Worsening of Symptoms Advise patients to notify their physician if they experience acute worsening of symptoms of periodic paralysis .
Hypersensitivity and Other Life - Threatening Reactions Inform patients that hypersensitivity and immune mediated reactions can occur with KEVEYIS , and could be fatal .
Advise patients to discontinue KEVEYIS and notify their healthcare provider immediately if they develop a rash or signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis or other life - threatening reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider of all of the drugs and over - the - counter medications that they take and to not take aspirin or other salicylates without first discussing with their healthcare provider [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Metabolic Acidosis Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they develop possible manifestations of metabolic acidosis ( e . g . , fast breathing , fatigue / tiredness , loss of appetite , or irregular heart beat or palpitations ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Falls Inform patients that KEVEYIS can increase their risk of falls [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Cognitive Impairment Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of cognitive impairment including confusion and memory lapse [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Driving and Operating Machinery KEVEYIS may cause drowsiness / fatigue in some patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Caution patients on the potential for impaired ability to drive and operate machinery .
Manufactured by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 2624761 Distributed by : Xeris Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Chicago , IL 60601 KEVEYIS ® is a registered trademark licensed exclusively in the US to Xeris Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , a subsidiary of Xeris Biopharma , Inc .
XERIS PHARMACEUTICALS ® and its associated logo are trademarks of Xeris Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Copyright © 2021 Xeris Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
5200904 - 1021 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 72065 - 001 - 01 100 Tablets Keveyis ® ( dichlorphenamide ) Tablets 50 mg Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
