Minoxidil 2 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment USE to regrow hair on scalp Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame For external use only • Your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on this carton , because this product may not work for you • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children .
• Your scalp is red , inflammed , infected , irritated , or painful • You use other medicines on your scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• Some people have experienced change in hair color and / or texture .
It takes time to regrow hair .
You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results .
• The amount of hair regrow is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • Your hand or feet swell • Scalp irritation or redness occurs • Unwanted facial hair growth occurs • You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Apply 1 mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • Using more or more often will not improve results • Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again • See hair loss pictures on side of this carton • Before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • Keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• In clinical studies of mostly white women aged 18 - 45 years with mild to moderate degrees of hair loss , the following response to 2 % minoxidil topical solutions was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using minoxidil topical solution 2 % for 8 months ( 19 % had moderate regrowth : 40 % had minimal regrowth ) .
This compares with 7 % of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using the placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it , for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth : 33 % had minimal regrowth ) .
• Store at USP controlled room temperature 20 o - 25 oC .
( 68 o - 77 oF ) .
Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 237 - 4131 Open 24 hours a day , 7 days a week .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
