Diazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative .
Chemically , diazepam is 7 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - methyl - 5 - phenyl - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
It is a colorless to light yellow crystalline compound , and is insoluble in water .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C16H13ClN2O M . W . 284 . 75 Diazepam is available as 2 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg tablets for oral administration and contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide ; colorants : 5 mg only ( D C Yellow No . 10 and FD C Yellow No . 6 ) ; 10 mg only ( FD C Blue No . 1 ) ; magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYDiazepam is a benzodiazepine that exerts anxiolytic , sedative , muscle - relaxant , anticonvulsant and amnestic effects .
Most of these effects are thought to result from a facilitation of the action of gamma aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) , an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionAfter oral administration > 90 % of diazepam is absorbed and the average time to achieve peak plasma concentrations is 1 to 1 . 5 hours with a range of 0 . 25 to 2 . 5 hours .
Absorption is delayed and decreased when administered with a moderate fat meal .
In the presence of food mean lag times are approximately 45 minutes as compared with 15 minutes when fasting .
There is also an increase in the average time to achieve peak concentrations to about 2 . 5 hours in the presence of food as compared with 1 . 25 hours when fasting .
This results in an average decrease in Cmax of 20 % in addition to a 27 % decrease in AUC ( range 15 % to 50 % ) when administered with food .
DistributionDiazepam and its metabolites are highly bound to plasma proteins ( diazepam 98 % ) .
Diazepam and its metabolites cross the blood - brain and placental barriers and are also found in breast milk in concentrations approximately one tenth of those in maternal plasma ( days 3 to 9 post - partum ) .
In young healthy males , the volume of distribution at steady - state is 0 . 8 to 1 L / kg .
The decline in the plasma concentration - time profile after oral administration is biphasic .
The initial distribution phase has a half - life of approximately 1 hour , although it may range up to > 3 hours .
MetabolismDiazepam is N - demethylated by CYP3A4 and 2C19 to the active metabolite N - desmethyldiazepam , and is hydroxylated by CYP3A4 to the active metabolite temazepam .
N - desmethyldiazepam and temazepam are both further metabolized to oxazepam .
Temazepam and oxazepam are largely eliminated by glucuronidation .
EliminationThe initial distribution phase is followed by a prolonged terminal elimination phase ( half - life up to 48 hours ) .
The terminal elimination half - life of the active metabolite N - desmethyldiazepam is up to 100 hours .
Diazepam and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine , predominantly as their glucuronide conjugates .
The clearance of diazepam is 20 to 30 mL / min in young adults .
Diazepam accumulates upon multiple dosing and there is some evidence that the terminal elimination half - life is slightly prolonged .
Pharmacokinetics in Special PopulationsChildrenIn children 3 to 8 years old the mean half - life of diazepam has been reported to be 18 hours .
NewbornsIn full term infants , elimination half - lives around 30 hours have been reported , with a longer average half - life of 54 hours reported in premature infants of 28 to 34 weeks gestational age and 8 to 81 days post - partum .
In both premature and full term infants the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam shows evidence of continued accumulation compared to children .
Longer half - lives in infants may be due to incomplete maturation of metabolic pathways .
GeriatricElimination half - life increases by approximately 1 hour for each year of age beginning with a half - life of 20 hours at 20 years of age .
This appears to be due to an increase in volume of distribution with age and a decrease in clearance .
Consequently , the elderly may have lower peak concentrations , and on multiple dosing higher trough concentrations .
It will also take longer to reach steady - state .
Conflicting information has been published on changes of plasma protein binding in the elderly .
Reported changes in free drug may be due to significant decreases in plasma proteins due to causes other than simply aging .
Hepatic InsufficiencyIn mild and moderate cirrhosis , average half - life is increased .
The average increase has been variously reported from 2 fold to 5 fold , with individual half - lives over 500 hours reported .
There is also an increase in volume of distribution , and average clearance decreases by almost half .
Mean half - life is also prolonged with hepatic fibrosis to 90 hours ( range 66 to 104 hours ) , with chronic active hepatitis to 60 hours ( range 26 to 76 hours ) , and with acute viral hepatitis to 74 hours ( range 49 to 129 ) .
In chronic active hepatitis , clearance is decreased by almost half .
INDICATIONS Diazepam Tablets USP are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
In acute alcohol withdrawal , diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation , tremor , impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis .
Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology ( such as inflammation of the muscles or joints , or secondary to trauma ) ; spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders ( such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia ) ; athetosis ; and stiff - man syndrome .
Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders , although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy .
The effectiveness of diazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam Tablets USP are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug and , because of lack of sufficient clinical experience , in children under 6 months of age .
It may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy , but is contraindicated in acute narrow angle glaucoma .
WARNINGSDiazepam is not recommended in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed instead of appropriate treatment .
Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect , patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS - depressant drugs during diazepam therapy .
As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity , when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders , the possibility of an increase in the frequency and / or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication .
Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and / or severity of seizures .
PregnancyAn increased risk of congenital malformations and other developmental abnormalities associated with the use of benzodiazepine drugs during pregnancy has been suggested .
There may also be non - teratogenic risks associated with the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy .
There have been reports of neonatal flaccidity , respiratory and feeding difficulties , and hypothermia in children born to mothers who have been receiving benzodiazepines late in pregnancy .
In addition , children born to mothers receiving benzodiazepines on a regular basis late in pregnancy may be at some risk of experiencing withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Diazepam has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and hamsters when given orally at daily doses of 100 mg / kg or greater ( approximately eight times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD = 1 mg / kg / day ] or greater on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate and encephalopathy are the most common and consistently reported malformations produced in these species by administration of high , maternally toxic doses of diazepam during organogenesis .
Rodent studies have indicated that prenatal exposure to diazepam doses similar to those used clinically can produce long - term changes in cellular immune responses , brain neurochemistry , and behavior .
In general , the use of diazepam in women of childbearing potential , and more specifically during known pregnancy , should be considered only when the clinical situation warrants the risk to the fetus .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Patients should also be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Labor and DeliverySpecial care must be taken when diazepam is used during labor and delivery , as high single doses may produce irregularities in the fetal heart rate and hypotonia , poor sucking , hypothermia , and moderate respiratory depression in the neonates .
With newborn infants it must be remembered that the enzyme system involved in the breakdown of the drug is not yet fully developed ( especially in premature infants ) .
Nursing MothersDiazepam passes into breast milk .
Breastfeeding is therefore not recommended in patients receiving diazepam .
PRECAUTIONS If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed — particularly with known compounds which may potentiate the action of diazepam , such as phenothiazines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants .
The usual precautions are indicated for severely depressed patients or those in whom there is any evidence of latent depression ; particularly the recognition that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
In elderly and debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 2 mg to 2 ½ mg once or twice daily , initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
The clearance of diazepam and certain other benzodiazepines can be delayed in association with Tagamet ( cimetidine ) administration .
The clinical significance of this is unclear .
Information for PatientsTo assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
The risk of dependence increases with duration of treatment ; it is also greater in patients with a history of alcohol or drug abuse .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS - depressant drugs during diazepam therapy .
As is true of most CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug InteractionsCentrally Acting AgentsIf diazepam is to be combined with other centrally acting agents , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents employed particularly with compounds that may potentiate or be potentiated by the action of diazepam , such as phenothiazines , antipsychotics , anxiolytics / sedatives , hypnotics , anticonvulsants , narcotic analgesics , anesthetics , sedative antihistamines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants .
AlcoholConcomitant use with alcohol is not recommended due to enhancement of the sedative effect .
AntacidsDiazepam peak concentrations are 30 % lower when antacids are administered concurrently .
However , there is no effect on the extent of absorption .
The lower peak concentrations appear due to a slower rate of absorption , with the time required to achieve peak concentrations on average 20 to 25 minutes greater in the presence of antacids .
However , this difference was not statistically significant .
Compounds Which Inhibit Certain Hepatic EnzymesThere is a potentially relevant interaction between diazepam and compounds which inhibit certain hepatic enzymes ( particularly cytochrome P450 3 A and 2C19 ) .
Data indicate that these compounds influence the pharmacokinetics of diazepam and may lead to increased and prolonged sedation .
At present , this reaction is known to occur with cimetidine , ketoconazole , fluvoxamine , fluoxetine , and omeprazole .
PhenytoinThere have also been reports that the metabolic elimination of phenytoin is decreased by diazepam .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityIn studies in which mice and rats were administered diazepam in the diet at a dose of 75 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 and 12 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD = 1 mg / kg / day ] on a mg / m2 basis ) for 80 and 104 weeks , respectively , an increased incidence of liver tumors was observed in males of both species .
The data currently available are inadequate to determine the mutagenic potential of diazepam .
Reproduction studies in rats showed decreases in the number of pregnancies and in the number of surviving offspring following administration of an oral dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 16 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) prior to and during mating and throughout gestation and lactation .
No adverse effects on fertility or offspring viability were noted at a dose of 80 mg / kg / day ( approximately 13 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
PregnancyCategory D ( see WARNINGS , Pregnancy ) .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
Geriatric UseIn elderly patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 2 mg to 2 . 5 mg once or twice daily , initially to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
Extensive accumulation of diazepam and its major metabolite , desmethyldiazepam , has been noted following chronic administration of diazepam in healthy elderly male subjects .
Metabolites of this drug are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Hepatic InsufficiencyDecreases in clearance and protein binding , and increases in volume of distribution and half - life has been reported in patients with cirrhosis .
In such patients , a 2 to 5 fold increase in mean half - life has been reported .
Delayed elimination has also been reported for the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam .
Benzodiazepines are commonly implicated in hepatic encephalopathy .
Increases in half - life have also been reported in hepatic fibrosis and in both acute and chronic hepatitis ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations , Hepatic Insufficiency ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONSSide effects most commonly reported were drowsiness , fatigue , muscle weakness , and ataxia .
The following have also been reported : Central Nervous System : confusion , depression , dysarthria , headache , slurred speech , tremor , vertigo Gastrointestinal System : constipation , nausea , gastrointestinal disturbances Special Senses : blurred vision , diplopia , dizziness Cardiovascular System : hypotension Psychiatric and Paradoxical Reactions : stimulation , restlessness , acute hyperexcited states , anxiety , agitation , aggressiveness , irritability , rage , hallucinations , psychoses , delusions , increased muscle spasticity , insomnia , sleep disturbances , and nightmares .
Inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects have been reported when using benzodiazepines .
Should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
They are more likely to occur in children and in the elderly .
Urogenital System : incontinence , changes in libido , urinary retention Skin and Appendages : skin reactions Laboratories : elevated transaminases and alkaline phosphatase Other : changes in salivation , including dry mouth , hypersalivation Antegrade amnesia may occur using therapeutic dosages , the risk increasing at higher dosages .
Amnestic effects may be associated with inappropriate behavior .
Minor changes in EEG patterns , usually low - voltage fast activity , have been observed in patients during and after diazepam therapy and are of no known significance .
Because of isolated reports of neutropenia and jaundice , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable during long - term therapy .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCEDiazepam is subject to Schedule IV control under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 .
Abuse and dependence of benzodiazepines have been reported .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving diazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
Once physical dependence to benzodiazepines has developed , termination of treatment will be accompanied by withdrawal symptoms .
The risk is more pronounced in patients on long - term therapy .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of diazepam .
These withdrawal symptoms may consist of tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , headache , muscle pain , extreme anxiety , tension , restlessness , confusion and irritability .
In severe cases , the following symptoms may occur : derealization , depersonalization , hyperacusis , numbness and tingling of the extremities , hypersensitivity to light , noise and physical contact , hallucinations or epileptic seizures .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Chronic use ( even at therapeutic doses ) may lead to the development of physical dependence : discontinuation of the therapy may result in withdrawal or rebound phenomena .
Rebound Anxiety : A transient syndrome whereby the symptoms that led to treatment with diazepam recur in an enhanced form .
This may occur upon discontinuation of treatment .
It may be accompanied by other reactions including mood changes , anxiety , and restlessness .
Since the risk of withdrawal phenomena and rebound phenomena is greater after abrupt discontinuation of treatment , it is recommended that the dosage be decreased gradually .
OVERDOSAGEOverdose of benzodiazepines is usually manifested by central nervous system depression ranging from drowsiness to coma .
In mild cases , symptoms include drowsiness , confusion , and lethargy .
In more serious cases , symptoms may include ataxia , diminished reflexes , hypotonia , hypotension , respiratory depression , coma ( rarely ) , and death ( very rarely ) .
Overdose of benzodiazepines in combination with other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) may be fatal and should be closely monitored .
Management of OverdosageFollowing overdose with oral benzodiazepines , general supportive measures should be employed including the monitoring of respiration , pulse , and blood pressure .
Vomiting should be induced ( within 1 hour ) if the patient is conscious .
Gastric lavage should be undertaken with the airway protected if the patient is unconscious .
Intravenous fluids should be administered .
If there is no advantage in emptying the stomach , activated charcoal should be given to reduce absorption .
Special attention should be paid to respiratory and cardiac function in intensive care .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with intravenous fluids , and an adequate airway maintained .
Should hypotension develop , treatment may include intravenous fluid therapy , repositioning , judicious use of vasopressors appropriate to the clinical situation , if indicated , and other appropriate countermeasures .
Dialysis is of limited value .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be considered that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine - receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for resedation , respiratory depression and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
Caution should be observed in the use of flumazenil in epileptic patients treated with benzodiazepines .
The complete flumazenil package insert , including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , should be consulted prior to use .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect .
While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients , there will be some who may require higher doses .
In such cases , dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects .
Adults : Usual Daily Dose Management of Anxiety Disorders and relief of Symptoms of Anxiety .
Depending on severity of symptoms — 2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily Symptomatic Relief in Acute AlcoholWithdrawal .
10 mg , 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours , reducing to 5 mg , 3 or 4 times daily as needed Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm .
2 mg to 10 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders 2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily Geriatric Patients , or in the presence of debilitating disease .
2 mg to 2 ½ mg , 1 or 2 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated Children : Because of varied responses to CNS - acting drugs , initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required .
Not for use in children under 6 months .
1 mg to 2 ½ mg , 3 or 4 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated HOW SUPPLIEDDiazepam Tablets USP , 2 mg are available as white , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3925 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 2 mg of diazepam USP , packaged in bottles of 100 and 500 tablets .
Diazepam Tablets USP , 5 mg are available as yellow , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3926 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 5 mg of diazepam USP packaged in bottles of 100 , 500 , and 1000 tablets .
Diazepam Tablets USP , 10 mg are available as light blue , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3927 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 10 mg of diazepam USP , packaged in bottles of 100 , 500 , and 1000 tablets .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured In Czech Republic By : TEVA CZECH INDUSTRIES s . r . o . Opava - Komarov , Czech Republic Manufactured For : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . A 3 / 2010 Diazepam Tablets USP 5 mg 100 s Label TextNDC 0172 - 3926 - 60 New Product Appearance DIAZEPAM Tablets USP 5 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Diazepam Tablets USP 10 mg 100 s Label TextNDC 0172 - 3927 - 60 New Product Appearance DIAZEPAM Tablets USP 10 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA GABAdone ( US patent pending ) capsules by oral administration .
A specially formulated Medical Food product , consisting of a proprietary blend of amino acids and polyphenol ingredients in specific proportions , for the dietary management of the metabolic processes of sleep disorders ( SD ) .
Must be administered under physician supervision .
Medical Foods Medical Food products are often used in hospitals ( e . g . , for burn victims or kidney dialysis patients ) and outside of a hospital setting under a physician ’ s care for the dietary management of diseases in patients with particular medical or metabolic needs due to their disease or condition .
Congress defined " Medical Food " in the Orphan Drug Act and Amendments of 1988 as " a system which is formulated to be consumed or administered enterally [ or orally ] under the supervision of a physician and which is intended for the specific dietary management of a disease or condition for which distinctive nutritional requirements , based on recognized scientific principles , are established by medical evaluation . "
Medical Foods are complex formulated products , requiring sophisticated and exacting technology .
GABAdone has been developed , manufactured , and labeled in accordance with both the statutory and the FDA regulatory definition of a Medical Food .
GABAdone must be used while the patient is under the ongoing care of a physician .
SLEEP DISORDERS ( SD ) SD as a Metabolic Deficiency Disease A critical component of the definition of a Medical Food is the requirement for a distinctive nutritional deficiency .
FDA scientists have proposed a physiologic definition of a distinctive nutritional deficiency as follows : “ the dietary management of patients with specific diseases requires , in some instances , the ability to meet nutritional requirements that differ substantially from the needs of healthy persons .
For example , in establishing the recommended dietary allowances for general , healthy population , the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine National Academy of Sciences , recognized that different or distinctive physiologic requirements may exist for certain persons with " special nutritional needs arising from metabolic disorders , chronic diseases , injuries , premature birth , other medical conditions and drug therapies .
Thus , the distinctive nutritional needs associated with a disease reflect the total amount needed by a healthy person to support life or maintain homeostasis , adjusted for the distinctive changes in the nutritional needs of the patient as a result of the effects of the disease process on absorption , metabolism , and excretion . ”
It was also proposed that in patients with certain disease states who respond to nutritional therapies , a physiologic deficiency of the nutrient is assumed to exist .
For example , if a patient with sleep disorders responds to a tryptophan formulation by improving the duration and quality of sleep , a deficiency of tryptophan is assumed to exist .
Patients with sleep disorders are known to have nutritional deficiencies of tryptophan , choline , flavonoids , and certain antioxidants .
Patients with sleep disorders frequently exhibit reduced plasma levels of tryptophan and have been shown to respond to oral administration of tryptophan or a 5 - hydoxytryptophan formulation .
Research has shown that tryptophan reduced diets result in a fall in circulating tryptophan .
Patients with sleep disorders frequently experience activation of the tryptophan degradation pathway that increases the turnover of tryptophan leading to a reduced level of production of serotonin for a given tryptophan blood level .
Research has also shown that a genetic predisposition to accelerated tryptophan degradation can lead to increased tryptophan requirements in certain patients with sleep disorders .
Choline is required to fully potentiate acetylcholine synthesis by brain neurons .
A deficiency of choline leads to reduced acetylcholine production by the neurons .
Low fat diets , frequently used by patients with sleep disorders , are usually choline deficient .
Flavonoids potentiate the production of acetylcholine by the neurons thereby inducing REM sleep .
Low fat diets and diets deficient in flavonoid rich foods result in inadequate flavonoid concentrations , impeding acetylcholine production in certain patients with sleep disorders .
Provision of tryptophan , choline , and flavonoids with antioxidants , in specific proportions can restore the production of beneficial serotonin and acetylcholine , thereby improving sleep quality .
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION Primary Ingredients GABAdone consists of a proprietary blend of amino acids , cocoa , ginkgo biloba and flavonoids in specific proportions .
These ingredients fall into the category of “ Generally Regarded as Safe ” ( GRAS ) as defined by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) ( Sections 201 ( s ) and 409 of the Federal Food , Drug , and Cosmetic Act ) .
A GRAS substance is distinguished from a food additive on the basis of the common knowledge about the safety of the substance for its intended use .
The standard for an ingredient to achieve GRAS status requires not only technical demonstration of non - toxicity and safety , but also general recognition of safety through widespread usage and agreement of that safety by experts in the field .
Many ingredients have been determined by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to be GRAS , and are listed as such by regulation , in Volume 21 Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Sections 182 , 184 , and 186 .
Amino Acids Amino Acids are the building blocks of protein .
All amino acids are GRAS listed as they have been ingested by humans for thousands of years .
The doses of the amino acids in GABAdone are equivalent to those found in the usual human diet ; however the formulation uses specific ratios of the key ingredients to elicit a therapeutic response .
Tryptophan , for example , is an obligatory amino acid .
The body cannot make tryptophan and must obtain tryptophan from the diet .
Tryptophan is needed to produce serotonin .
Serotonin is required to induce sleep .
Patients with sleep disorders have altered serotonin metabolism .
Some patients with sleep disorders have a resistance to the use of tryptophan that is similar to the mechanism found in insulin resistance .
Patients with sleep disorders cannot acquire sufficient tryptophan from the diet to establish normal sleep architecture without ingesting a prohibitively large amount of calories , particularly calories from protein .
Flavonoids Flavonoids are a group of phytochemical compounds found in all vascular plants including fruits and vegetables .
They are a part of a larger class of compounds known as polyphenols .
Many of the therapeutic or health benefits of colored fruits and vegetables , cocoa , red wine , and green tea are directly related to their flavonoid content .
The amounts of specially formulated flavonoids found in GABAdone cannot be obtained from conventional foods in the necessary proportions to elicit a therapeutic response .
Physical Description GABAdone is a yellow to light brown powder .
GABAdone contains L - Glutamic Acid , 5 - Hydroxytryptophan as Griffonia Seed Extract , Acetyl L - Carnitine HCL , Gamma Amino Butyric Acid , Choline Bitartrate , Hydrolyzed Whey Protein , Cocoa , Ginkgo Biloba , Valerian Root , and Grape Seed Extract .
Other Ingredients GABAdone contains the following inactive or other ingredients , as fillers , excipients , and colorings : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , Maltodextrin NF , gelatin ( as the capsule material ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action GABAdone acts by restoring and maintaining the balance of the neurotransmitters , serotonin , and acetylcholine that are required for maintaining normal sleep architecture .
A deficiency of these neurotransmitters is associated with sleep disorders .
Metabolism The amino acids in GABAdone are primarily absorbed by the stomach and small intestines .
All cells metabolize the amino acids in GABAdone .
Circulating tryptophan and choline blood levels determine the production of serotonin and acetylcholine .
Excretion GABAdone is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A2 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 .
These isoenzymes are principally responsible for 95 % of all detoxification of drugs , with CYP3A4 being responsible for detoxification of roughly 50 % of drugs .
Amino acids do not appear to have an effect on drug metabolizing enzymes .
INDICATIONS FOR USE GABAdone is intended for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes in patients with sleep disorders and sleep disorders associated with anxiety .
- Insomnia - Sleep maintenance insomnia - Sleep disorders of circadian origin - Sleep disorders associated with anxiety - Snoring CLINICAL EXPERIENCE Patients taking GABAdone have demonstrated significant functional improvements when this therapeutic agent is used for the dietary management of the metabolic processes associated with sleep disorders .
The administration of GABAdone results in the induction and maintenance of sleep in patients with sleep disorders .
GABAdone has no effect on normal blood pressure .
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS GABAdone is contraindicated in an extremely small number of patients with hypersensitivity to any of the nutritional components of GABAdone .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Oral supplementation with L - tryptophan or choline at high doses up to 15 grams daily is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse reactions of higher doses — from 15 to 30 grams daily — are nausea , abdominal cramps , and diarrhea .
Some patients may experience these symptoms at lower doses .
The total combined amount of amino acids in each GABAdone capsule does not exceed 400 mg .
DRUG INTERACTIONS GABAdone does not directly influence the pharmacokinetics of prescription drugs .
Clinical experience has shown that administration of GABAdone may allow for lowering the dose of co - administered drugs under physician supervision .
OVERDOSE There is a negligible risk of overdose with GABAdone as the total dosage of amino acids in a one month supply ( 60 capsules ) is less than 25 grams .
Overdose symptoms may include diarrhea , weakness , and nausea .
POST - MARKETING SURVEILLANCE Post - marketing surveillance has shown no serious adverse reactions .
Reported cases of mild rash and itching may have been associated with allergies to GABAdone flavonoid ingredients , including cinnamon , cocoa , and chocolate .
The reactions were transient in nature and subsided within 24 hours .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Administration For the dietary management of the metabolic processes in patients with sleep disorders .
Take ( 2 ) capsules daily at bedtime .
An additional dose of one or two capsules may be taken after awakenings during the night .
As with most amino acid formulations GABAdone should be taken without food to increase the absorption of key ingredients .
How Supplied GABAdone is supplied in blue and white , size 0 capsules in bottles of 60 capsules .
Physician Supervision GABAdone is a Medical Food product available by prescription only and must be used while the patient is under ongoing physician supervision .
U . S . patent pending .
Manufactured by Arizona Nutritional Supplements , Inc .
Chandler AZ 85225 Distributed by Physician Therapeutics LLC , Los Angeles , CA 90077 .
www . ptlcentral . com © Copyright 2003 - 2006 , Physician Therapeutics LLC , all rights reserved NDC # 68405 - 004 - 02 Storage Store at room temperature , 59 - 86 OF ( 15 - 30 OC ) Protect from light and moisture .
GABAdone is supplied to physicians in a recyclable plastic bottle with a child - resistant cap .
Directions for use : Must be administered under physician supervision .
For adults only .
As a Medical Food , take one ( 1 ) or two ( 2 ) capsules daily at bedtime or as directed by physician .
Fot the dietary management of sleep disorders .
Contains no added sugar , starch , wheat , yeast , preservatives , artificial flavor .
Storage : Keep tightly closed in a cool dry place 8 - 32 degree centigrade ( 45 - 90 degree F ) , relative humidity , below 50 % .
Warning : Keep this product out of the reach of children .
NDC # 68405 - 004 - 02 PHYSICIAN THERAPEUTICS GABADONE Medical Food Rx only 60 Capsules Ingredients : Each serving ( per 2 capsules ) contains : Proprietary Amino Acid Blend Choline Bitartrate , Gamma Amino Butyric Acid ( GABA ) , Glutamic Acid ( L - Glutamic Acid ) , Whey Protein Hydrolysate 80 % , Griffonia Seed Extract ( 5 - HTP ) , Cocoa Extract ( fruit ) , Proprietary Herbal Blend Indian Valerian Extract 4 : 1 ( root ) , Ginkgo Biloba ( leaves ) , Acetyl L - Carnitine HCI , Grape Extract ( 95 % Polyphenols ) ( seed ) Other IngredientsL Gelatin , tricalcium phosphate , silicon dioxide , vegetable magnesium stearate , FDandC blue # 1 , titanium dioxide .
Distributed exclusively by : Physicians Therapeutics LLC A Divisions of Targeted Medical Pharma , Inc .
Los Angeles , CA 90077 www . ptlcentral . com Patent Pending 68405 - 004 - 02 A Convenience Packed Medical Food and Drug Gabavale - 5 PHYSICIAN THERAPEUTICS > GAVAdone 60 Capsules > Diazepam 5 mg 30 Tablets No Refills Without Physician Authorization Rx Only NDC # 68405 - 054 - 26 of this co - pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
