Active Ingredient Active Ingredient Purpose Camphor 6 . 2 % ............................. Cough Suppressant Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold .
Warnings Warnings For external use only Flammable : Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
For steam inhalation only .
Ask a doctor before use , if you have Ask a doctor before use , if you have a persistant or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , emphysema , or if cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not When using this product , do not - heat - microwave - use near an open flame - take by mouth - direct stream from the vaporizer too close to the face - add to hot water or any container in which you are heating water except when adding to cold water in a hot steam vaporizer .
Improper use may cause the mixture to splatter and cause burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of eye exposure ( flush eyes with water ) ; or in case of accidental ingestion , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - See important warnings under " When using this product " - Adults & Children 2 years & over : use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1 - 1 / 2 teaspoons of solution for each pint of water - add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer - follow manufacturer ' s directions for using vaporizer - breathe in medicated vapors - may be repeated up to 3 times a day - Children under 2 years : do not use Other information - Close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat Inactive Ingredients dimethicone , eucalyptus globulus ( eucalyptus oil ) leaf oil , laureth - 7 , menthol , myristica fragrans ( nutmeg ) kernel oil , poloxamer 124 , SD alcohol 40 - B , thuja occidentalis ( cedar leaf ) oil Directions - See important warnings under " When using this product " - Adults & Children 2 years & over : use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1 - 1 / 2 teaspoons of solution for each pint of water - add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer - follow manufacturer ' s directions for using vaporizer - breathe in medicated vapors - may be repeated up to 3 times a day - Children under 2 years : do not use Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
