WARNING Lithium toxicity is closely related to serum lithium levels , and can occur at doses close to therapeutic levels .
Facilities for prompt and accurate serum lithium determinations should be available before initiating therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
DESCRIPTION Lithium carbonate extended - release tablets , USP contain lithium carbonate , USP , a white , granular , odorless powder with molecular formula Li 2 CO 3 and molecular weight 73 . 89 .
Lithium is an element of the alkali - metal group with atomic number 3 , atomic weight 6 . 94 and an emission line at 671 nm on the flame photometer .
Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets Each white to off - white , round , scored tablet , debossed with LC above the score and 450 below the score on one side of the tablet and M on the other side , contains lithium carbonate 450 mg .
Inactive ingredients consist of magnesium stearate , povidone , sodium alginate , and sodium starch glycolate ( potato ) .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 3 .
Lithium carbonate extended - release tablets 450 mg are designed to release a portion of the dose initially and the remainder gradually ; the release pattern of the extended - release tablets reduces the variability in lithium blood levels seen with the immediate release dosage forms .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Preclinical studies have shown that lithium alters sodium transport in nerve and muscle cells and effects a shift toward intraneuronal metabolism of catecholamines , but the specific biochemical mechanism of lithium action in mania is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium carbonate extended - release tablets are indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of manic - depressive illness .
Maintenance therapy prevents or diminishes the intensity of subsequent episodes in those manic - depressive patients with a history of mania .
Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech , motor hyperactivity , reduced need for sleep , flight of ideas , grandiosity , elation , poor judgment , aggressiveness and possibly hostility .
When given to a patient experiencing a manic episode , lithium carbonate extended - release tablets may produce a normalization of symptomatology within 1 to 3 weeks .
WARNINGS Lithium Toxicity The toxic concentrations for lithium ( ≥ 1 . 5 mEq / L ) are close to the therapeutic range ( 0 . 8 to 1 . 2 mEq / L ) .
Some patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations that are considered within the therapeutic range ( see BOXED WARNING , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Lithium may take up to 24 hours to distribute into brain tissue , so occurrence of acute toxicity symptoms may be delayed .
Neurological signs of lithium toxicity range from mild neurological adverse reactions such as fine tremor , lightheadedness , lack of coordination , and weakness ; to moderate manifestations like giddiness , apathy , drowsiness , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , ataxia , blurred vision , tinnitus , and slurred speech ; and severe manifestations such as clonus , confusion , seizure , coma , and death .
In rare cases , neurological sequelae may persist despite discontinuing lithium treatment and may be associated with cerebellar atrophy .
Cardiac manifestations involve electrocardiographic changes , such as prolonged QT interval , ST and T - wave changes and myocarditis .
Renal manifestations include urine concentrating defect , nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , and renal failure .
Respiratory manifestations include dyspnea , aspiration pneumonia , and respiratory failure .
Gastrointestinal manifestations include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and bloating .
No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
The risk of lithium toxicity is increased by : • Recent onset of concurrent febrile illness • Concomitant administration of drugs which increase lithium serum concentrations by pharmacokinetic interactions or drugs affecting kidney function ( see PRECAUTIONS - DRUG INTERACTIONS ) • Acute ingestion • Impaired renal function • Volume depletion or dehydration • Significant cardiovascular disease • Changes in electrolyte concentrations ( especially sodium and potassium ) Monitor for signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity .
If symptoms occur , decrease dosage or discontinue lithium treatment .
Unmasking of Brugada Syndrome There have been postmarketing reports of a possible association between treatment with lithium and the unmasking of Brugada Syndrome .
Brugada Syndrome is a disorder characterized by abnormal electrocardiographic ( ECG ) findings and a risk of sudden death .
Lithium should generally be avoided in patients with Brugada Syndrome or those suspected of having Brugada Syndrome .
Consultation with a cardiologist is recommended if : ( 1 ) treatment with lithium is under consideration for patients suspected of having Brugada Syndrome or patients who have risk factors for Brugada Syndrome , e . g . , unexplained syncope , a family history of Brugada Syndrome , or a family history of sudden unexplained death before the age of 45 years , ( 2 ) patients who develop unexplained syncope or palpitations after starting lithium therapy .
Pseudotumor Cerebri Cases of pseudotumor cerebri ( increased intracranial pressure and papilledema ) have been reported with lithium use .
If undetected , this condition may result in enlargement of the blind spot , constriction of visual fields , and eventual blindness due to optic atrophy .
Lithium should be discontinued , if clinically possible , if this syndrome occurs .
Renal Effects Chronic lithium therapy may be associated with diminution of renal concentrating ability , occasionally presenting as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , with polyuria and polydipsia .
Such patients should be carefully managed to avoid dehydration with resulting lithium retention and toxicity .
This condition is usually reversible when lithium is discontinued .
Post marketing cases consistent with nephrotic syndrome have been reported with the use of lithium .
Biopsy findings in patients with nephrotic syndrome include minimal change disease and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis .
Discontinuation of lithium in patients with nephrotic syndrome has resulted in remission of nephrotic syndrome .
Morphologic changes with glomerular and interstitial fibrosis and nephron atrophy have been reported in patients on chronic lithium therapy .
Morphologic changes have also been seen in manic - depressive patients never exposed to lithium .
The relationship between renal functional and morphologic changes and their association with lithium therapy have not been established .
Kidney function should be assessed prior to and during lithium therapy .
Routine urinalysis and other tests may be used to evaluate tubular function ( e . g . , urine specific gravity or osmolality following a period of water deprivation , or 24 - hour urine volume ) and glomerular function ( e . g . , serum creatinine , creatinine clearance or proteinuria ) .
During lithium therapy , progressive or sudden changes in renal function , even within the normal range , indicate the need for reevaluation of treatment .
Encephalopathic Syndrome An encephalopathic syndrome ( characterized by weakness , lethargy , fever , tremulousness and confusion , extrapyramidal symptoms , leukocytosis , elevated serum enzymes , BUN and FBS ) has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus a neuroleptic .
In some instances , the syndrome was followed by irreversible brain damage .
Because of a possible causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and neuroleptics , patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear .
This encephalopathic syndrome may be similar to or the same as neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( NMS ) .
Serotonin Syndrome Lithium can precipitate serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition .
The risk is increased with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs ( including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors , triptans , tricyclic antidepressants , fentanyl , tramadol , tryptophan , buspirone , and St . John ’ s Wort ) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin , i . e . , MAOIs ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Serotonin syndrome signs and symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , and gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Monitor all patients taking lithium for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
Discontinue treatment with lithium and any concomitant serotonergic agents immediately if the above symptoms occur , and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment .
If concomitant use of lithium with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome and monitor for symptoms .
Concomitant Use with Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , neuromuscular blocking agents should be given with caution to patients receiving lithium .
Usage in Pregnancy Adverse effects on implantation in rats , embryo viability in mice and metabolism in vitro of rat testes and human spermatozoa have been attributed to lithium , as have teratogenicity in submammalian species and cleft palates in mice .
In humans , lithium carbonate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies , especially Ebstein ’ s anomaly .
If this drug is used in women of childbearing potential , or during pregnancy , or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Usage in Nursing Mothers Lithium is excreted in human milk .
Nursing should not be undertaken during lithium therapy except in rare and unusual circumstances where , in the view of the physician , the potential benefits to the mother outweigh possible hazards to the infant or neonate .
Signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity such as hypertonia , hypothermia , cyanosis , and ECG changes have been reported in some infants and neonates .
Usage in Pediatric Patients Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 12 years of age have not been determined ; its use in these patients is not recommended .
There has been a report of a transient syndrome of acute dystonia and hyperreflexia occurring in a 15 kg child who ingested 300 mg of lithium carbonate .
PRECAUTIONS General The ability to tolerate lithium is greater during the acute manic phase and decreases when manic symptoms subside ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The distribution space of lithium approximates that of total body water .
Lithium is primarily excreted in urine with insignificant excretion in feces .
Renal excretion of lithium is proportional to its plasma concentration .
The half - life of elimination of lithium is approximately 24 hours .
Lithium decreases sodium reabsorption by the renal tubules which could lead to sodium depletion .
Therefore , it is essential for the patient to maintain a normal diet , including salt , and an adequate fluid intake ( 2 , 500 to 3 , 000 mL ) at least during the initial stabilization period .
Decreased tolerance to lithium has been reported to ensue from protracted sweating or diarrhea and , if such occur , supplemental fluid and salt should be administered under careful medical supervision and lithium intake reduced or suspended until the condition is resolved .
In addition to sweating and diarrhea , concomitant infection with elevated temperatures may also necessitate a temporary reduction or cessation of medication .
Previously existing underlying thyroid disorders do not necessarily constitute a contraindication to lithium treatment ; where hypothyroidism pre - exists , careful monitoring of thyroid function during lithium stabilization and maintenance allows for correction of changing thyroid parameters , if any ; where hypothyroidism occurs during lithium stabilization and maintenance , supplemental thyroid treatment may be used .
Information for Patients Lithium carbonate may impair mental and / or physical abilities .
Caution patients about activities requiring alertness ( e . g . , operating vehicles or machinery ) .
A condition known as Brugada Syndrome may pre - exist and be unmasked by lithium therapy .
Brugada Syndrome is a heart disorder characterized by abnormal electrocardiographic ( ECG ) findings and risk of sudden death .
Patients should be advised to seek immediate emergency assistance if they experience fainting , light - headedness , abnormal heart beats , or shortness of breath because they may have a potentially life - threatening heart disorder known as Brugada Syndrome .
Drug Interactions Caution should be used when lithium and diuretics are used concomitantly because diuretic - induced sodium loss may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity .
Patients receiving such combined therapy should have serum lithium levels monitored closely and the lithium dosage adjusted if necessary .
Lithium levels should be closely monitored when patients initiate or discontinue NSAID use .
In some cases , lithium toxicity has resulted from interactions between an NSAID and lithium .
Indomethacin and piroxicam have been reported to increase significantly steady - state plasma lithium concentrations .
There is also evidence that other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents , including the selective cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors , have the same effect .
In a study conducted in healthy subjects , mean steady - state lithium plasma levels increased approximately 17 % in subjects receiving lithium 450 mg b . i . d . with celecoxib 200 mg b . i . d . as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone .
Concurrent use of metronidazole with lithium may provoke lithium toxicity due to reduced renal clearance .
Patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely .
There is evidence that angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , such as enalapril and captopril , and angiotension II receptor antagonists , such as losartan , may substantially increase steady - state plasma lithium levels , sometimes resulting in lithium toxicity .
When such combinations are used , lithium dosage may need to be decreased , and plasma lithium levels should be measured more often .
Concurrent use of calcium channel blocking agents with lithium may increase the risk of neurotoxicity in the form of ataxia , tremors , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and / or tinnitus .
Caution is recommended .
Concomitant administration of lithium with serotonergic drugs can precipitate serotonin syndrome .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome , particularly during lithium initiation .
If serotonin syndrome occurs , consider discontinuation of lithium and / or concomitant serotonergic drugs .
Examples of serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRI ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRI ) , and monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) .
The following drugs can lower serum lithium concentrations by increasing urinary lithium excretion : acetazolamide , urea , xanthine preparations , and alkalinizing agents such as sodium bicarbonate .
Concomitant administration of methyldopa , phenytoin , or carbamazepine with lithium may increase the risk of toxic effects of these drugs .
Concomitant extended use of iodide preparations , especially potassium iodide , with lithium may produce hypothyroidism .
Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : ( See WARNINGS ) .
Usage in Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants and neonates from lithium , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established ( see WARNINGS ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of lithium carbonate extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The occurrence and severity of adverse reactions are generally directly related to serum lithium concentrations as well as to individual patient sensitivity to lithium , and generally occur more frequently and with greater severity at higher concentrations .
Adverse reactions may be encountered at serum lithium levels below 1 . 5 mEq / L .
Mild to moderate adverse reactions may occur at levels from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 mEq / L , and moderate to severe reactions may be seen at levels of 2 . 0 mEq / L and above .
Fine hand tremor , polyuria , and mild thirst may occur during initial therapy for the acute manic phase , and may persist throughout treatment .
Transient and mild nausea and general discomfort may also appear during the first few days of lithium administration .
These side effects usually subside with continued treatment or a temporary reduction or cessation of dosage .
If persistent , cessation of lithium therapy may be required .
Diarrhea , vomiting , drowsiness , muscular weakness , and lack of coordination may be early signs of lithium intoxication , and can occur at lithium levels below 2 . 0 mEq / L .
At higher levels , ataxia , giddiness , tinnitus , blurred vision , and a large output of dilute urine may be seen .
Serum lithium levels above 3 . 0 mEq / L may produce a complex clinical picture , involving multiple organs and organ systems .
Serum lithium levels should not be permitted to exceed 2 . 0 mEq / L during the acute treatment phase .
The following reactions have been reported and appear to be related to serum lithium levels , including levels within the therapeutic range : Neuromuscular / Central Nervous System : Tremor , muscle hyperirritability ( fasciculations , twitching , clonic movements of whole limbs ) , hypertonicity , ataxia , choreo - athetotic movements , hyperactive deep tendon reflex , extrapyramidal symptoms including acute dystonia , cogwheel rigidity , blackout spells , epileptiform seizures , slurred speech , dizziness , vertigo , downbeat nystagmus , incontinence of urine or feces , somnolence , psychomotor retardation , restlessness , confusion , stupor , coma , tongue movements , tics , tinnitus , hallucinations , poor memory , slowed intellectual functioning , startled response , worsening of organic brain syndromes , myasthenia gravis ( rarely ) .
Cardiovascular : Cardiac arrhythmia , hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , bradycardia , sinus node dysfunction with severe bradycardia ( which may result in syncope ) , unmasking of Brugada Syndrome ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ) .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , gastritis , salivary gland swelling , abdominal pain , excessive salivation , flatulence , indigestion .
Genitourinary : Glycosuria , decreased creatinine clearance , albuminuria , oliguria , and symptoms of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus including polyuria , thirst and polydipsia .
Dermatologic : Drying and thinning of hair , alopecia , anesthesia of skin , chronic folliculitis , xerosis cutis , psoriasis onset or exacerbation , generalized pruritus with or without rash , cutaneous ulcers , angioedema , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) .
Autonomic Nervous System : Blurred vision , dry mouth , impotence / sexual dysfunction .
Thyroid Abnormalities : Euthyroid goiter and / or hypothyroidism ( including myxedema ) accompanied by lower T 3 and T 4 .
I 131 uptake may be elevated .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Paradoxically , rare cases of hyperthyroidism have been reported .
EEG Changes : Diffuse slowing , widening of the frequency spectrum , potentiation and disorganization of background rhythm .
EKG Changes : Reversible flattening , isoelectricity or inversion of T - waves .
Miscellaneous : Fatigue , lethargy , transient scotomata , exophthalmos , dehydration , weight loss , leukocytosis , headache , transient hyperglycemia , hypercalcemia , hyperparathyroidism , excessive weight gain , edematous swelling of ankles or wrists , metallic taste , dysgeusia / taste distortion , salty taste , thirst , swollen lips , tightness in chest , swollen and / or painful joints , fever , polyarthralgia , dental caries .
Some reports of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , hyperparathyroidism , and hypothyroidism which persist after lithium discontinuation have been received .
A few reports have been received of the development of painful discoloration of fingers and toes and coldness of the extremities within one day of the starting of treatment with lithium .
The mechanism through which these symptoms ( resembling Raynaud ’ s syndrome ) developed is not known .
Recovery followed discontinuance .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic levels for lithium ( ≥ 1 . 5 mEq / L ) are close to the therapeutic levels ( 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mEq / L ) .
It is therefore important that patients and their families be cautioned to watch for early toxic symptoms and to discontinue the drug and inform the physician should they occur .
Toxic symptoms are listed in detail under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Treatment No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known .
Early symptoms of lithium toxicity can usually be treated by reduction or cessation of dosage of the drug and resumption of the treatment at a lower dose after 24 to 48 hours .
In severe cases of lithium poisoning , the first and foremost goal of treatment consists of elimination of this ion from the patient .
Treatment is essentially the same as that used in barbiturate poisoning : 1 ) gastric lavage , 2 ) correction of fluid and electrolyte imbalance , and 3 ) regulation of kidney function .
Urea , mannitol and aminophylline all produce significant increases in lithium excretion .
Hemodialysis is an effective and rapid means of removing the ion from the severely toxic patient .
Infection prophylaxis , regular chest X - rays and preservation of adequate respiration are essential .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Doses of extended - release tablets are usually given b . i . d . ( approximately 12 - hour intervals ) .
When initiating therapy with extended - release lithium , dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
When switching a patient from immediate - release capsules to lithium carbonate extended - release tablets , give the same total daily dose when possible .
Most patients on maintenance therapy are stabilized on 900 mg daily , e . g . , lithium carbonate extended - release tablets 450 mg b . i . d .
When the previous dosage of immediate - release lithium is not a multiple of 450 mg , e . g . , 1 , 500 mg , initiate lithium carbonate extended - release tablets at the multiple of 450 mg nearest to , but below , the original daily dose , i . e . , 1 , 350 mg .
When the 2 doses are unequal , give the larger dose in the evening .
In the above example , with a total daily dose of 1 , 350 mg , generally 450 mg of lithium carbonate extended - release tablets should be given in the morning and 900 mg of lithium carbonate extended - release tablets in the evening .
If desired , the total daily dose of 1 , 350 mg can be given in 3 equal 450 - mg doses of lithium carbonate extended - release tablets .
These patients should be monitored at 1 - to 2 - week intervals , and dosage adjusted if necessary , until stable and satisfactory serum levels and clinical state are achieved .
When patients require closer titration than that available with doses of lithium carbonate extended - release tablets in increments of 450 mg , immediate - release capsules should be used .
Acute Mania Optimal patient response to lithium carbonate extended - release tablets can usually be established and maintained with 1 , 800 mg per day in divided doses .
Such doses will normally produce the desired serum lithium level ranging between 1 . 0 and 1 . 5 mEq / L .
Dosage must be individualized according to serum levels and clinical response .
Regular monitoring of the patient ’ s clinical state and serum lithium levels is necessary .
Serum levels should be determined twice per week during the acute phase , and until the serum level and clinical condition of the patient have been stabilized .
Long - Term Control The desirable serum lithium levels are 0 . 6 to 1 . 2 mEq / L .
Dosage will vary from one individual to another , but usually 900 mg to 1 , 200 mg per day in divided doses will maintain this level .
Serum lithium levels in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every 2 months .
Patients unusually sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum levels below 1 . 0 mEq / L .
Important Considerations • Blood samples for serum lithium determinations should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable ( i . e . , 8 to 12 hours after the previous dose ) .
Total reliance must not be placed on serum levels alone .
Accurate patient evaluation requires both clinical and laboratory analysis .
• Elderly patients often respond to reduced dosage , and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum levels ordinarily tolerated by younger patients .
• Lithium carbonate extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never chewed or crushed .
HOW SUPPLIED : Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets , USP are available containing 450 mg of lithium carbonate , USP .
The 450 mg tablets are white to off - white , round , scored tablets debossed with LC above the score and 450 below the score on one side of the tablet and M on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 51079 - 142 - 20 – Unit dose blister packages of 100 ( 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from moisture .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited Hyderabad — 500 096 , India Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A . S - 12683 4 / 21 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 450 mg NDC 51079 - 142 - 20 Lithium Carbonate Extended - Release Tablets , USP 450 mg 100 Tablets ( 10 x 10 ) Each tablet contains : Lithium carbonate , USP 450 mg Usual Dosage : 1 or 2 tablets b . i . d . See accompanying prescribing information for complete directions for use .
WARNINGS : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from moisture .
Code No . : MH / DRUGS / 25 / NKD / 89 Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Made in India Rx only S - 11243 R2 Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A .
This unit dose package is not child resistant .
For institutional use only .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
This container provides light - resistance .
See window for lot number and expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
