DESCRIPTION Nadolol is a synthetic nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent designated chemically as 1 - ( tert - butylamino ) - 3 - [ ( 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - cis - 6 , 7 - dihydroxy - 1 - naphthyl ) oxy ] - 2 - propanol .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nadolol , USP is a white crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in ethanol , soluble in hydrochloric acid , slightly soluble in water and in chloroform , and very slightly soluble in sodium hydroxide .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 20 mg , 40 mg or 80 mg of nadolol , USP and the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium lauryl sulfate , and D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nadolol is a nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
Clinical pharmacology studies have demonstrated beta - blocking activity by showing ( 1 ) reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest and on exercise , ( 2 ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest and on exercise , ( 3 ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia , and ( 4 ) reduction of reflex orthostatic tachycardia .
Nadolol specifically competes with beta - adrenergic receptor agonists for available beta receptor sites ; it inhibits both the beta 1 receptors located chiefly in cardiac muscle and the beta 2 receptors located chiefly in the bronchial and vascular musculature , inhibiting the chronotropic , inotropic , and vasodilator responses to beta - adrenergic stimulation proportionately .
Nadolol has no intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and , unlike some other beta - adrenergic blocking agents , nadolol has little direct myocardial depressant activity and does not have an anesthetic - like membrane stabilizing action .
Animal and human studies show that nadolol slows the sinus rate and depresses AV conduction .
In dogs , only minimal amounts of nadolol were detected in the brain relative to amounts in blood and other organs and tissues .
Nadolol has low lipophilicity as determined by octanol / water partition coefficient , a characteristic of certain beta - blocking agents that has been correlated with the limited extent to which these agents cross the blood - brain barrier , their low concentration in the brain , and low incidence of CNS - related side effects .
In controlled clinical studies , nadolol at doses of 40 to 320 mg / day has been shown to decrease both standing and supine blood pressure , the effect persisting for approximately 24 hours after dosing .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effects of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents has not been established ; however , factors that may be involved include ( 1 ) competitive antagonism of catecholamines at peripheral ( non - CNS ) adrenergic neuron sites ( especially cardiac ) leading to decreased cardiac output , ( 2 ) a central effect leading to reduced tonic - sympathetic nerve outflow to the periphery , and ( 3 ) suppression of renin secretion by blockade of the beta - adrenergic receptors responsible for renin release from the kidneys .
While cardiac output and arterial pressure are reduced by nadolol therapy , renal hemodynamics are stable , with preservation of renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate .
By blocking catecholamine - induced increases in heart rate , velocity and extent of myocardial contraction , and blood pressure , nadolol generally reduces the oxygen requirements of the heart at any given level of effort , making it useful for many patients in the long - term management of angina pectoris .
On the other hand , nadolol can increase oxygen requirements by increasing left ventricular fiber length and end diastolic pressure , particularly in patients with heart failure .
Although beta - adrenergic receptor blockade is useful in treatment of angina and hypertension , there are also situations in which sympathetic stimulation is vital .
For example , in patients with severely damaged hearts , adequate ventricular function may depend on sympathetic drive .
Beta - adrenergic blockade may worsen AV block by preventing the necessary facilitating effects of sympathetic activity on conduction .
Beta 2 - adrenergic blockade results in passive bronchial constriction by interfering with endogenous adrenergic bronchodilator activity in patients subject to bronchospasm and may also interfere with exogenous bronchodilators in such patients .
Absorption of nadolol after oral dosing is variable , averaging about 30 % .
Peak serum concentrations of nadolol usually occur in 3 to 4 hours after oral administration and the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract does not affect the rate or extent of nadolol absorption .
Approximately 30 % of the nadolol present in serum is reversibly bound to plasma protein .
Unlike many other beta - adrenergic blocking agents , nadolol is not metabolized by the liver and is excreted unchanged , principally by the kidneys .
The half - life of therapeutic doses of nadolol is about 20 to 24 hours , permitting once daily dosage .
Because nadolol is excreted predominantly in the urine , its half - life increases in renal failure ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Steady - state serum concentrations of nadolol are attained in 6 to 9 days with once daily dosage in persons with normal renal function .
Because of variable absorption and different individual responsiveness , the proper dosage must be determined by titration .
Exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and ventricular dysrhythmias have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease .
Abrupt withdrawal of these agents in patients without coronary artery disease has resulted in transient symptoms , including tremulousness , sweating , palpitation , headache , and malaise .
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain these phenomena , among them increased sensitivity to catecholamines because of increased numbers of beta receptors .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Angina Pectoris Nadolol tablets are indicated for the long - term management of patients with angina pectoris .
Hypertension Nadolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with nadolol tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Nadolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide - type diuretics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nadolol tablets are contraindicated in bronchial asthma , sinus bradycardia and greater than first - degree conduction block , cardiogenic shock , and overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be a vital component supporting circulatory function in patients with congestive heart failure , and its inhibition by beta - blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
Although beta - blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure , if necessary , they can be used with caution in patients with a history of failure who are well compensated , usually with digitalis and diuretics .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents do not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle .
IN PATIENTS WITHOUT A HISTORY OF HEART FAILURE , continued use of beta - blockers can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
Therefore , at the first sign or symptom of heart failure , the patient should be digitalized and / or treated with diuretics , and the response observed closely , or nadolol should be discontinued ( gradually , if possible ) .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta - blocker therapy ; exacerbation of angina and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy .
When discontinuing chronically administered nadolol , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , nadolol administration should be reinstituted promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue nadolol therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Nonallergic Bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASES SHOULD IN GENERAL NOT RECEIVE BETA - BLOCKERS .
Nadolol should be administered with caution since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous or exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta 2 receptors .
Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta - adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms ( e . g . , tachycardia and blood pressure changes ) of acute hypoglycemia .
This is especially important with labile diabetics .
Beta - blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia ; therefore , it may be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blockade which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS Impaired Renal Function Nadolol should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Information for Patients Patients , especially those with evidence of coronary artery insufficiency , should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of nadolol therapy without the physician ' s advice .
Although cardiac failure rarely occurs in properly selected patients , patients being treated with beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be advised to consult the physician at the first sign or symptom of impending failure .
The patient should also be advised of a proper course in the event of an inadvertently missed dose .
Drug Interactions When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents : Anesthetics , general Exaggeration of the hypotension induced by general anesthetics ( see WARNINGS : Major Surgery ) .
Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) Hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia ; adjust dosage of antidiabetic drug accordingly ( see WARNINGS : Diabetes and Hypoglycemia ) .
Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) Additive effect ; monitor closely for evidence of hypotension and / or excessive bradycardia ( e . g . , vertigo , syncope , postural hypotension ) .
Digitalis glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Response to Treatment for Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In chronic oral toxicologic studies ( 1 to 2 years ) in mice , rats , and dogs , nadolol did not produce any significant toxic effects .
In 2 - year oral carcinogenic studies in rats and mice , nadolol did not produce any neoplastic , preneoplastic , or non - neoplastic pathologic lesions .
In fertility and general reproductive performance studies in rats , nadolol caused no adverse effects .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C In animal reproduction studies with nadolol , evidence of embryotoxicity and fetotoxicity was found in rabbits , but not in rats or hamsters , at doses 5 to 10 times greater ( on a mg / kg basis ) than the maximum indicated human dose .
No teratogenic potential was observed in any of these species .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nadolol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Neonates whose mothers are receiving nadolol at parturition have exhibited bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and associated symptoms .
Nursing Mothers Nadolol is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue therapy taking into account the importance of nadolol to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects have been mild and transient and have rarely required withdrawal of therapy .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia with heart rates of less than 60 beats per minute occurs commonly , and heart rates below 40 beats per minute and / or symptomatic bradycardia were seen in about 2 of 100 patients .
Symptoms of peripheral vascular insufficiency , usually of the Raynaud type , have occurred in approximately 2 of 100 patients .
Cardiac failure , hypotension , and rhythm / conduction disturbances have each occurred in about 1 of 100 patients .
Single instances of first - degree and third - degree heart block have been reported ; intensification of AV block is a known effect of beta - blockers ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Central Nervous System : Dizziness or fatigue has been reported in approximately 2 of 100 patients ; paresthesias , sedation , and change in behavior have each been reported in approximately 6 of 1 , 000 patients .
Respiratory : Bronchospasm has been reported in approximately 1 of 1 , 000 patients ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , diarrhea , abdominal discomfort , constipation , vomiting , indigestion , anorexia , bloating , and flatulence have been reported in 1 to 5 of 1 , 000 patients .
Miscellaneous : Each of the following has been reported in 1 to 5 of 1 , 000 patients : rash ; pruritus ; headache ; dry mouth , eyes , or skin ; impotence or decreased libido ; facial swelling ; weight gain ; slurred speech ; cough ; nasal stuffiness ; sweating ; tinnitus ; blurred vision .
Reversible alopecia has been reported infrequently .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in patients taking nadolol and / or other beta - adrenergic blocking agents , but no causal relationship to nadolol has been established .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; visual disturbances ; hallucinations ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability with slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis ; ischemic colitis ; elevated liver enzymes .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ; thrombocytopenic or nonthrombocytopenic purpura .
Allergic : Fever combined with aching and sore throat ; laryngospasm ; respiratory distress .
Miscellaneous : Pemphigoid rash ; hypertensive reaction in patients with pheochromocytoma ; sleep disturbances ; Peyronie ' s disease .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta - blocker practolol has not been reported with nadolol .
OVERDOSAGE Nadolol can be removed from the general circulation by hemodialysis .
In addition to gastric lavage , the following measures should be employed , as appropriate .
In determining the duration of corrective therapy , note must be taken of the long duration of the effect of nadolol .
Excessive Bradycardia Administer atropine ( 0 . 25 mg to 1 . 0 mg ) .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , administer isoproterenol cautiously .
Cardiac Failure Administer a digitalis glycoside and diuretic .
It has been reported that glucagon may also be useful in this situation .
Hypotension Administer vasopressors , e . g . , epinephrine or levarterenol .
( There is evidence that epinephrine may be the drug of choice . )
Bronchospasm Administer a beta 2 - stimulating agent and / or a theophylline derivative .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED .
NADOLOL TABLETS MAY BE ADMINISTERED WITHOUT REGARD TO MEALS .
Angina Pectoris The usual initial dose is 40 mg nadolol once daily .
Dosage may be gradually increased in 40 mg to 80 mg increments at 3 to 7 day intervals until optimum clinical response is obtained or there is pronounced slowing of the heart rate .
The usual maintenance dose is 40 mg or 80 mg administered once daily .
Doses up to 160 mg or 240 mg administered once daily may be needed .
The usefulness and safety in angina pectoris of dosages exceeding 240 mg per day have not been established .
If treatment is to be discontinued , reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypertension The usual initial dose is 40 mg nadolol once daily , whether it is used alone or in addition to diuretic therapy .
Dosage may be gradually increased in 40 mg to 80 mg increments until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved .
The usual maintenance dose is 40 mg or 80 mg administered once daily .
Doses up to 240 mg or 320 mg administered once daily may be needed .
Dosage Adjustment in Renal Failure Absorbed nadolol is excreted principally by the kidneys and , although nonrenal elimination does occur , dosage adjustments are necessary in patients with renal impairment .
The following dose intervals are recommended : Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) Dosage Interval ( hours ) > 50 24 31 to 50 24 to 36 10 to 30 24 to 48 < 10 40 to 60 HOW SUPPLIED : Nadolol Tablets , USP are available containing 20 mg or 40 mg of nadolol , USP .
The 20 mg tablets are yellow round , scored tablets debossed with M above the score and 28 below the score on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 51079 - 812 - 20 – Unit dose blister packages of 100 ( 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) .
The 40 mg tablets are yellow round , scored tablets debossed with M above the score and 171 below the score on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 51079 - 813 - 20 – Unit dose blister packages of 100 ( 10 cards of 10 tablets each ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Manufactured by : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A . S - 12686 5 / 21 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg NDC 51079 - 812 - 20 Nadolol Tablets , USP 20 mg 100 Tablets ( 10 x 10 ) Each tablet contains : Nadolol , USP .
.
.
.
20 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Manufactured by : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Rx only S - 5458 R7 Packaged and Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A .
This unit dose package is not child resistant .
For institutional use only .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
This container provides light - resistance .
See window for lot number and expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg NDC 51079 - 813 - 20 Nadolol Tablets , USP 40 mg 100 Tablets ( 10 x 10 ) Each tablet contains : Nadolol , USP .
.
.
.
40 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Manufactured by : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Rx only S - 5459 R7 Packaged and Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A .
This unit dose package is not child resistant .
For institutional use only .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
This container provides light - resistance .
See window for lot number and expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
