Active Ingredients Allantoin Lidocaine Petrolatum DESCRIPTION : Vexa - D ( Allantoin 2 % / Lidocaine 4 % / Petrolatum 30 % ) is comprised of an adhesive material containing Allantoin 2 % , Lidocaine 4 % and petrolatum 30 % which is applied to a woven polyester backing and covered with a PET film release line .
The release liner is removed prior to application to the skin .
The size of the patch is 12 . 5 cm x 8 . 5 cm .
Allantoin is chemically designated as 1 - ( 2 , 5 - Dioxo - 4 - imidazolidinyl ) .
It is a white powder that is stable , incompatible with strong oxidizing agents .
It has a melting point of 230 ° C .
It has the following structure : Lidocaine is chemically designated as 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , has an octanol : water partition ration of 43 at pH 7 . 4 , and has the following structure : Each adhesive patch contains 34 mg of Allantoin and 68 mg of Lidocaine in a petrolatum base .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : Vitamin E and Onion Extract .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacodynamics Allantoin works by slowing bacterial growth and loosing and softening scales and crust .
The keratolytic effect and abrasive and astringent properties of Allantoin are used in skin softening cosmetic preparation .
Allantoin is a moisturizing , soothing , healing , anti - irritating , keratoyltic and non - toxic agent .
Allantoin is a cell - proliferation healing agent which stimulates healthy tissue formation .
It removes necrotic and scaling tissue .
Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent and is suggested to stabilize neuronal membranes by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses .
The penetration of Lidocaine into intact skin after application of patch is sufficient to produce an analgesic effect , but less than the amount necessary to produce a complete sensory block .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption The amount of allantoin and lidocaine systemically absorbed is directly related to both the duration of application and the surface area over which it is applied .
In a pharmacokinetic study , three lidocaine 5 % patches were applied over an area of 420 cm2 of intact skin on the back of normal volunteers for 12 hours .
Blood samples were withdrawn for a determination of lidocaine concentration during the application and for 12 hours after removal of patches .
The results are summarized in table 1 .
Table 1 Absorption of Lidocaine Normal volunteers ( n = 15 , 12 - hour wearing time ) Application Site Area ( cm2 ) Dose Absorbed ( mg ) Cmax ( μg / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) 3 Patches ( 2100 mg ) Back 420 64 ± 32 0 . 13 ± 0 . 06 11 hr When lidocaine 5 % patch is used according to the recommended dosing instructions , only 3 ± 2 % of the dose applied is expected to be absorbed .
At least 95 % ( 665 mg ) of lidocaine will remain in a used patch .
Mean peak blood concentration of lidocaine is about 0 . 13 μg / mL ( about 1 / 10 of the therapeutic concentration required to treat cardiac arrhythmias ) .
Repeated application of three days , indicated that the lidocaine concentration does not increase with daily use .
Study of allantoin 1 % solution absorption in oil / water cream applied to the inner forearm of volunteers ( n = 6 ) to test skin penetration was performed .
Two applications were made , 1 removed after 3 hours and the other after 6 hours .
The remaining allantoin in the removed portion was measured and subtracted from the original amount to determine the absorption .
Allantoin penetration with the oil / water cream was 13 . 0 % ± 1 . 8 % and 15 . 4 % ± 2 . 7 % Metabolism It is not known if lidocaine is metabolized in the skin .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver to a number of metabolites , including menoethylglycinexylidie ( MEGX ) and glycinexylidide ( GX ) , both of which have pharmacologic activity similar to , but less potent than that of lidocaine .
A minor metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has unknown pharmacologic activity but is carcinogenic in rats .
The blood concentration of this metabolite is negligible following application of lidocaine 5 % patch .
Following intravenous administration , MEGX and GX concentrations in serum range from 11 to 36 % and from 5 to 11 % of lidocaine concentrations , respectively .
Allantoin is not metabolized in the human body and is excreted in urine .
Excretion Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
Less than 10 % of lidocaine is excreted unchanged .
The half - life of lidocaine elimination from plasma following IV administration is 81 to 149 minutes ( mean 107 ± 22 SD , n = 15 ) .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 33 to 0 . 90 L / min ( mean 0 . 64 ± 0 . 18 SD , n = 15 ) .
Allantoin is excreted by the kidneys .
Majority of Allantoin is excreted unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vexa - D is indicated for scar management .
It is indicated for the temporary relief of pain associated with minor cuts , scrapes and minor skin irritations .
Protects minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vexa - D is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to any other component of the product .
WARNINGS Accidental Exposure in Children Even a used Vexa - D patch contains a large amount of lidocaine .
The potential exists for a small child or a pet to suffer serious adverse effects from chewing or ingesting a new or used Vexa - D patch , although the risk with this formulation has not been evaluated .
It is important for patients to store and dispose of Vexa - D out of the reach of children , pets and others .
( See HANDLING AND DISPOSAL ) Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying Vexa - D to larger areas for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations , leading to serious adverse effects .
Lidocaine toxicity could be expected at lidocaine blood concentrations above 5 μg / mL .
The blood concentration of lidocaine is determined by the rate of systemic absorption and elimination .
Longer duration of application , application of more than the recommended number of patches , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increasing the blood concentration of lidocaine .
With recommended dosing of Vexa - D , the average blood concentration is about 0 . 13 μg / mL , but concentration higher than 0 . 25 μg / mL have been observed in some patients .
PRECAUTIONS General Hepatic Disease Patients with severe hepatic disease are at greater risk of developing toxic blood concentrations of lidocaine , because of their inability to metabolize lidocaine normally .
Allergic Reactions Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
However , Vexa - D should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities , especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain .
Non - intact Skin Application to broken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations of lidocaine from increased absorption .
Vexa - D is only recommended for use on intact skin .
Eye Exposure The contact of Vexa - D with eyes , although not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of severe eye irritations with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and protect the eye until sensation returns .
Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs Vexa - D should be used with caution in patients receiving Class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Local Anesthetics When Vexa - D is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Vexa - D ( Allantoin 2 % / Lidocaine 4 % / petrolatum30 % patch ) has not been studied in pregnancy .
Reproduction studies with lidocaine have been performed in rats at doses up to 30 mg / kg subcutaneously and have revealed no evidence if harm to the fetus due to lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Vexa - D should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Vexa - D has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Lidocaine is excreted in human milk , and the milk : plasma ration of lidocaine is 0 . 4 .
Caution should be exercised when Vexa - D is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Application Site Reactions During or immediately after treatment with Vexa - D ( Allantoin 2 % / Lidocaine 4 % / petrolatum30 % patch ) , the skin at the site of application may develop blisters , bruising , burning sensation , depigmentation , dermatitis , discoloration , edema , erythema , exfoliation , irritation , papules , petechia , pruritus , vesicles or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
These reactions are generally mild and transient , resolving spontaneously within a few minutes to hours .
Allergic Reactions Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine , although rare , can occur .
They are characterized by angioedema , bronchospasm , dermatits , dyspnea , hypersensitivity , laryngospasm , pruritus , shock , and urticaria .
If they occur , they should be managed by conventional means , the detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
OVERDOSAGE Lidocaine overdose from cutaneous absorption is rare , but could occur .
If there is any suspicion of lidocaine overdose , drug blood concentration should be checked .
The management of overdose includes close monitoring , supportive care , and symptomatic treatment .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdose with lidocaine .
In the absence of massive topical overdose or oral ingestion , evaluation of symptoms of toxicity should include consideration of other etiologies for the clinical effects , or over dosage from other sources of lidocaine or other local anesthetics .
The oral LD50 of lidocaine HCl is 459 ( 346 - 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in non - fasted female rats and 214 ( 154 - 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats , which are equivalent to roughly 4000 mg and 2000 mg , respectively in a 60 to 70 kg man based on the equivalent surface area dosage conversion factors between species .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Vexa - D to intact skin to cover the most painful area .
Apply up to four patches per day .
Each patch should not be applied for more than 8 hours in a given 24 - hour period .
Patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the release liner .
Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
Smaller areas of treatment are recommended in a debilitated patient , or a patient with impaired elimination .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , remove the patch and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When Vexa - D is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
HANDLING AND DISPOSAL Hands should be washed after handling of Vexa - D , and eye contact with Vexa - D should be avoided .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
Fold use patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Vexa - D should be kept out of reach of children .
HOW SUPPLIED Vexa - D ( Allantoin 2 % / Lidocaine 4 % / petrolatum30 % patch ) is available as the following : Box of 15 patches , packaged into 3 child - resistant envelopes ( 5 patches / envelope ) NDC 45861 - 008 - 15 Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Pharmaceutics Corporation Glendale , CA 91205 February 2015 Other Ingredients Vitamin E , Onion Extract Skin Protectant Topical Anesthetic Skin Protectant Warnings For external use only Avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , symptoms last more than 7 dasy or clear up and occure again within a few days Do not use on deep puncture wounds , animal bites , serious burns If pregnant or breast feeding , contact physician prior to use Do not use in large quantities , particularly over raw sufaces or blistered areas Uses Scar management Temporarily protects minor cuts , scrapes and burns Temporarily relief of pain associated with minor cuts , scrapes and minor skin irritations Directions Clean and dry affected area Remove mesh from backing and apply to affected area Use only one mesh at a time , and maximum of four mesh / day Leave mesh on affected area for up to 8 hours Do not use mesh for longer than five consecutive days Children under 12 should consult physician prior to use Store below 25 degrees .
Avoid direct sunlight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
