SPECIAL NOTE Because of the potential hepatotoxicity of Chenodiol , the poor response rate in some subgroups of Chenodiol treated patients , and an increased rate of a need for cholecystectomy in other Chenodiol treated subgroups , Chenodiol is not an appropriate treatment for many patients with gallstones .
Chenodiol should be reserved for carefully selected patients and treatment must be accompanied by systematic monitoring for liver function alterations .
Aspects of patient selection , response rates and risks versus benefits are given in the insert .
DESCRIPTION Chenodiol is the non - proprietary name for chenodeoxycholic acid , a naturally occurring human bile acid .
It is a bitter - tasting white powder consisting of crystalline and amorphous particles freely soluble in methanol , acetone and acetic acid and practically insoluble in water .
Its chemical name is 3α , 7α - dihydroxy - 5β - cholan - 24 - oic acid ( C24H40O4 ) , it has a molecular weight of 392 . 58 , and its structure is shown as : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chenodiol film - coated tablets for oral administration contain 250 mg of Chenodiol .
Inactive ingredients : pregelatinized starch ; silicon dioxide ; microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycollate ; and magnesium stearate ; the thin - film coating contains : opadry YS - 2 - 7035 [ consisting of methylcellulose and glycerin ] and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY At therapeutic doses , Chenodiol suppresses hepatic synthesis of both cholesterol and cholic acid , gradually replacing the latter and its metabolite , deoxycholic acid , in an expanded bile acid pool .
These actions contribute to biliary cholesterol desaturation and gradual dissolution of radiolucent cholesterol gallstones in the presence of a gall - bladder visualized by oral cholecystography .
Chenodiol has no effect on radiopaque ( calcified ) gallstones or on radiolucent bile pigment stones .
Chenodiol is well absorbed from the small intestine and taken up by the liver where it is converted to its taurine and glycine conjugates and secreted in bile .
Owing to 60 % to 80 % first - pass hepatic clearance , the body pool of Chenodiol resides mainly in the enterohepatic circulation ; serum and urinary bile acid levels are not significantly affected during Chenodiol therapy .
At steady - state , an amount of Chenodiol near the daily dose escapes to the colon and is converted by bacterial action to lithocholic acid .
About 80 % of the lithocholate is excreted in the feces ; the remainder is absorbed and converted in the liver to its poorly absorbed sulfolithocholyl conjugates .
During Chenodiol therapy there is only a minor increase in biliary lithocholate , while fecal bile acids are increased three - to four - fold .
Chenodiol is unequivocally hepatotoxic in many animal species , including sub - human primates at doses close to the human dose .
Although the theoretical cause is the metabolite , lithocholic acid , an established hepatotoxin , and man has an efficient mechanism for sulfating and eliminating this substance , there is some evidence that the demonstrated hepatotoxicity is partly due to Chenodiol per se .
The hepatotoxicity of lithocholic acid is characterized biochemically and morphologically as cholestatic .
Man has the capacity to form sulfate conjugates of lithocholic acid .
Variation in this capacity among individuals has not been well established and a recent published report suggests that patients who develop Chenodiol - induced serum aminotransferase elevations are poor sulfators of lithocholic acid ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS and WARNINGS ) .
General Clinical Results : Both the desaturation of bile and the clinical dissolution of cholesterol gallstones are dose - related .
In the National Cooperative Gallstone Study ( NCGS ) involving 305 patients in each treatment group , placebo and Chenodiol dosages of 375 mg and 750 mg per day were associated with complete stone dissolution in 0 . 8 % , 5 . 2 % and 13 . 5 % , respectively , of enrolled subjects over 24 months of treatment .
Uncontrolled clinical trials using higher doses than those used in the NCGS have shown complete dissolution rates of 28 % to 38 % of enrolled patients receiving body weight doses of from 13 to 16 mg / kg / day for up to 24 months .
In a prospective trial using 15 mg / kg / day , 31 % enrolled surgical - risk patients treated more than six months ( n = 86 ) achieved complete confirmed dissolutions .
Observed stone dissolution rates achieved with Chenodiol treatment are higher in subgroups having certain pretreatment characteristics .
In the NCGS , patients with small ( less than 15 mm in diameter ) radiolucent stones , the observed rate of complete dissolution was approximately 20 % on 750 mg / day .
In the uncontrolled trails using 13 to 16 mg / kg / day doses of Chenodiol , the rates of complete dissolution for small radiolucent stones ranged from 42 % to 60 % .
Even higher dissolution rates have been observed in patients with small floatable stones .
( See Floatable versus Nonfloatable Stones below ) .
Some obese patients and occasional normal weight patients fail to achieve bile desaturation even with doses of Chenodiol up to 19 mg / kg / day for unknown reasons .
Although dissolution is generally higher with increased dosage of Chenodiol , doses that are too low are associated with increased cholecystectomy rates ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Stones have recurred within five years in about 50 % of patients following complete confirmed dissolutions .
Although retreatment with Chenodiol has proven successful in dissolving some newly formed stones , the indications for , and safety of , retreatment are not well defined .
Serum aminotransferase elevations and diarrhea have been notable in all clinical trials and are dose - related ( refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS and WARNINGSsections for full information ) .
Floatable versus Nonfloatable Stones : A major finding in clinical trials was a difference between floatable and nonfloatable stones , with respect to both natural history and response to Chenodiol .
Over the two - year course of the National Cooperative Gallstone Study ( NCGS ) , placebo - treated patients with floatable stones ( n = 47 ) had significantly higher rates of biliary pain and cholecystectomy than patients with nonfloatable stones ( n = 258 ) ( 47 % versus 27 % and 19 % versus 4 % , respectively ) .
Chenodiol treatment ( 750 mg / day ) compared to placebo was associated with a significant reduction in both biliary pain and the cholecystectomy rates in the group with floatable stones ( 27 % versus 47 % and 1 . 5 % versus 19 % , respectively ) .
In an uncontrolled clinical trial using 15 mg / kg / day , 70 % of the patients with small ( less than 15 mm ) floatable stones ( n = 10 ) had complete confirmed dissolution .
In the NCGS in patients with nonfloatable stones , Chenodiol produced no reduction in biliary pain and showed a tendency to increase the cholecystectomy rate ( 8 % versus 4 % ) .
This finding was more pronounced with doses of Chenodiol below 10 mg / kg .
The subgroup of patients with nonfloatable stones and a history of biliary pain had the highest rates of cholecystectomy and aminotransferase elevations during Chenodiol treatment .
Except for the NCGS subgroup with pretreatment biliary pain , dose - related aminotransferase elevations and diarrhea have occurred with equal frequency in patients with floatable or nonfloatable stones .
In the uncontrolled clinical trial mentioned above , 27 % of the patients with nonfloatable stones ( n = 59 ) had complete confirmed dissolutions , including 35 % with small ( less than 15 mm ) ( n = 40 ) and only 11 % with large , nonfloatable stones ( n = 19 ) .
Of 916 patients enrolled NCGS , 17 . 6 % had stones seen in upright form ( horizontal X - ray beam ) to float in the dye - laden bile during oral cholecystography using iopanoic acid .
Other investigators report similar findings .
Floatable stones are not detected by ultrasonography in the absence of dye .
Chemical analysis has shown floatable stones to be essentially pure cholesterol .
Other Radiographic and Laboratory Features : Radiolucent stones may have rims or centers of opacity representing calcification .
Pigment stones and partially calcified radiolucent stones do not respond to Chenodiol .
Subtle calcification can sometimes be detected in flat film X - rays , if not obvious in the oral cholecystogram .
Among nonfloatable stones , cholesterol stones are more apt than pigment stones to be smooth surfaced , less than 0 . 5 cm in diameter , and to occur in numbers less than 10 .
As stone size number and volume increase , the probability of dissolution within 24 months decreases .
Hemolytic disorders , chronic alcoholism , biliary cirrhosis and bacterial invasion of the biliary system predispose to pigment gallstone formation .
Pigment stones of primary biliary cirrhosis should be suspected in patients with elevated alkaline phosphates , especially if positive anti - mitochondrial antibodies are present .
The presence of microscopic cholesterol crystals in aspirated gallbladder bile , and demonstration of cholesterol super saturation by bile lipid analysis increase the likelihood that the stones are cholesterol stones .
PATIENT SELECTION Evaluation of Surgical Risk : Surgery offers the advantage of immediate and permanent stone removal but carries a fairly high risk in some patients .
About 5 % of cholecystectomized patients have residual symptoms or retained common duct stones .
The spectrum to surgical risk varies as a function of age and the presence of disease other than cholelithiasis .
Selected tabulation of results from the National Halothane Study ( JAMA , 1968 , 197 : 775 - 778 ) is shown below : the study included 27 , 600 cholecystectomies .
• Mortality per Operation ( Smoothed rates with denominators adjusted to one death ) Mortality per Operation ( Smoothed rates with denominators adjusted to one death ) * Includes those with good health or moderate systemic disease , with or without emergency surgery .
** Severe or extreme systemic disease , with or with - out emergency surgery .
Low Risk Patients * Cholecystectomy Cholecystectomy & Common Duct Exploration Women 0 - 49 yrs .
1 / 1851 1 / 469 50 - 69 yrs .
1 / 357 1 / 99 Men 0 - 49 yrs .
1 / 981 1 / 243 50 - 69 yrs .
1 / 185 1 / 52 High Risk Patients ** Women 0 - 49 yrs .
1 / 79 1 / 21 50 - 69 yrs .
1 / 56 1 / 17 Men 0 - 49 yrs .
1 / 41 1 / 11 50 - 69 yrs .
1 / 30 1 / 9 Women in good health , or having only moderate systemic disease , under 49 years of age have the lowest rate ( 0 . 054 % ) ; men in all categories have a surgical mortality rate twice that of women ; common duct exploration quadruples the rates in all categories ; the rates rise with each decade of life and increase tenfold or more in all categories with severe or extreme systemic disease .
Relatively young patients requiring treatment might be better treated by surgery than with Chenodiol , because treatment with Chenodiol , even if successful , is associated with a high rate of recurrence .
The long - term consequences of repeated courses of Chenodiol in terms of liver toxicity , neoplasia and elevated cholesterol levels are not known .
Watchful waiting has the advantage that no therapy may ever be required .
For patients with silent or minimally symptomatic stones , the rate of moderate to severe symptoms or gallstone complications is estimated to be between 2 % and 6 % per year , leading to a cumulative rate of 7 % and 27 % in five years .
Presumably the rate is higher for patients already having symptoms .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chenodiol is indicated for patients with radiolucent stones in well - opacifying gallbladders , in whom selective surgery would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease or age .
The likelihood of successful dissolution is far greater if the stones are floatable or small .
For patients with nonfloatable stones , dissolution is less likely and added weight should be given to the risk that more emergent surgery might result from a delay due to unsuccessful treatment .
Safety of use beyond 24 months is not established .
Chenodiol will not dissolve calcified ( radiopaque ) or radiolucent bile pigment stones .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Chenodiol is contraindicated in the presence of known hepatocyte dysfunction or bile ductal abnormalities such as intrahepatic cholestasis , primary biliary cirrhosis or sclerosing cholangitis ( see WARNINGS ) ; a gallbladder confirmed as non - visualizing after two consecutive single doses of dye ; radiopaque stones ; or gallstone complications or compelling reasons for gallbladder surgery including unremitting acute cholecystitis , cholangitis , biliary obstruction , gallstone pancreatitis , or biliary gastrointestinal fistula .
Pregnancy Category X : Chenodiol may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Serious hepatic , renal and adrenal lesions occurred in fetuses of female Rhesus monkeys given 60 to 90 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 6 times the maximum recommended human dose , MRHD ) from day 21 to day 45 of pregnancy .
Hepatic lesions also occurred in neonatal baboons whose mothers had received 18 to 38 mg / kg ( 1 to 2 times the MRHD ) , all during pregnancy .
Fetal malformations were not observed .
Neither fetal liver damage nor fetal abnormalities occurred in reproduction studies in rats and hamsters .
No human data are available at this time .
Chenodiol is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
WARNINGS Safe use of Chenodiol depends upon selection of patients without pre - existing liver disease and upon faithful monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels to detect drug - induced liver toxicity .
Aminotransferase elevations over three times the upper limit of normal have required discontinuation of Chenodiol in 2 % to 3 % of patients .
Although clinical and biopsy studies have not shown fulminant lesions , the possibility remains that an occasional patient may develop serious hepatic disease .
Three patients with biochemical and histologic pictures of chronic active hepatitis while on Chenodiol , 375 mg / day or 750 mg / day , have been reported .
The biochemical abnormalities returned spontaneously to normal in two of the patients within 13 and 17 months ; and after 17 months ’ treatment with prednisone in the third .
Follow - up biopsies were not done ; and the causal relationship of the drug could not be determined .
Another biopsied patient was terminated from therapy because of elevated aminotransferase levels and a liver biopsy was interpreted as showing active drug hepatitis .
One patient with sclerosing cholangitis , biliary cirrhosis and history of jaundice died during Chenodiol treatment for hepatic duct stones .
Before treatment , serum aminotransferase and alkaline phosphate levels were over twice the upper limit of normal ; within one month they rose to over 10 times normal .
Chenodiol was discontinued at seven weeks , when the patient was hospitalized with advanced hepatic failure and E . coli peritonitis ; death ensued at the eighth week .
A contribution of Chenodiol to the fatal outcome could not be ruled out .
Epidemiologic studies suggest that bile acids might contribute to human colon cancer , but direct evidence is lacking .
Bile acids , including Chenodiol and lithocholic acid , have no carcinogenic potential in animal models , but have been shown to increase the number of tumors when administered with certain known carcinogens .
The possibility that Chenodiol therapy might contribute to colon cancer in otherwise susceptible individuals cannot be ruled out .
PRECAUTIONS Information for patients Patients should be counseled on the importance of periodic visits for liver function tests and oral cholecystograms ( or ultrasonograms ) for monitoring stone dissolution ; they should be made aware of the symptoms of gallstone complications and be warned to report immediately such symptoms to the physician .
Patients should be instructed on ways to facilitate faithful compliance with the dosage regimen throughout the usual long term of therapy , and on temporary dose reduction if episodes of diarrhea occur .
Drug interactions Bile acid sequestering agents , such as cholestyramine and colestipol , may interfere with the action of Chenodiol by reducing its absorption .
Aluminum - based antacids have been shown to absorb bile acids in vitro and may be expected to interfere with Chenodiol in the same manner as the sequestering agents .
Estrogen , oral contraceptive and collaborate ( and perhaps other lipid - lowering drugs ) increase biliary cholesterol secretion , and the incidence of cholesterol gallstones , hence , may counteract the effectiveness of Chenodiol .
Due to its hepatotoxicity , Chenodiol can affect the pharmacodynamics of coumarin and its derivatives , causing unexpected prolongation of the prothrombin time and hemorrhages .
Patients on concomitant therapy with Chenodiol and coumarin or its derivatives should be monitored carefully .
If prolongation of prothrombin time is observed , the coumarin dosage should be readjusted to give a prothrombin time 1 ½ to 2 times normal .
If necessary Chenodiol should be discontinued .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility A two - year oral study of Chenodiol in rats failed to show a carcinogenic potential at the tested levels of 15 to 60 mg / kg / day ( 1 to 4 times the maximum recommended human dose , MRHD ) .
It has been reported that Chenodiol given in long - term studies at oral doses up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 40 times the MRHD ) to rats and 1000 mg / kg / day ( 65 times the MRHD ) to mice induced benign and malignant liver cell tumors in female rats and cholangiomata in female rats and male mice .
Two - year studies of lithocholic acid ( a major metabolite of Chenodiol ) in mice ( 125 to 250 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 250 and 500 mg / kg / day ) found it not to be carcinogenic .
The dietary administration of Lithocholic acid to chickens is reported to cause hepatic adenomatous hyperplasia .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X : See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether Chenodiol is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Chenodiol is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of Chenodiol in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hepatobiliary : Dose - related serum aminotransferase ( mainly SGPT ) elevations , usually not accompanied by rises in alkaline phosphatase or bilirubin , occurred in 30 % or more of patients treated with the recommended dose of Chenodiol .
In most cases , these elevations were minor ( 1 ½ to 3 times the upper limit of laboratory normal ) and transient , returning to within the normal range within six months despite continued administration of the drug .
In 2 % to 3 % of patients , SGPT levels rose to over three times the upper limit of laboratory normal , recurred on re - challenge with the drug , and required discontinuation of Chenodiol treatment .
Enzyme levels have returned to normal following withdrawal of Chenodiol ( see WARNINGS ) .
Morphologic studies of liver biopsies taken before and after 9 and 24 months of treatment with Chenodiol have shown that 63 % of the patients prior to Chenodiol treatment had evidence of intrahepatic cholestasis .
Almost all pretreatment patients had electron microscopic abnormalities .
By the ninth month of treatment , reexamination of two - thirds of the patients showed an 89 % incidence of the signs of intrahepatic cholestasis .
Two of 89 patients at the ninth month had lithocholate - like lesions in the canalicular membrane , although there were not clinical enzyme abnormalities in the face of continued treatment and no change in Type 2 light microscopic parameters .
Increased Cholecystectomy Rate : NCGS patients with a history of biliary pain prior to treatment had higher cholecystectomy rates during the study if assigned to low dosage Chenodiol ( 375 mg / day ) than if assigned to either placebo or high dosage Chenodiol ( 750 mg / day ) .
The association with low dosage Chenodiol though not clearly a causal one , suggests that patients unable to take higher doses of Chenodiol may be at greater risk of cholecystectomy .
Gastrointestinal : Dose - related diarrhea has been encountered in 30 % to 40 % of Chenodiol - treated patients and may occur at any time during treatment but is most commonly encountered when treatment is initiated .
Usually , the diarrhea is mild , translucent , well - tolerated and does not interfere with therapy .
Dose reduction has been required in 10 % to 15 % of patients , and in a controlled trial about half of these required a permanent reduction in dose .
Anti - diarrhea agents have proven useful in some patients .
Discontinuation of Chenodiol because of failure to control diarrhea is to be expected in approximately 3 % of patients treated .
Steady epigastric pain with nausea typical of lithiasis ( biliary colic ) usually is easily distinguishable from the crampy abdominal pain of drug - induced diarrhea .
Other less frequent , gastrointestinal side effects reported include urgency , cramps , heartburn , constipation , nausea , and vomiting , anorexic , epigastric distress , dyspepsia , flatulence and nonspecific abdominal pain .
Serum Lipids : Serum total cholesterol and low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol may rise 10 % or more during administration of Chenodiol : no change has been seen in the high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) fraction ; small decreases in serum triglyceride levels for females have been reported .
Hematologic : Decreases in white cell count , never below 3000 , have been noted in a few patients treated with Chenodiol ; the drug was continued in all patients without incident .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Overdosage Accidental or intentional overdoses of Chenodiol have not been reported .
One patient tolerated 4 gm / day ( 58 mg / kg / day ) for six months without incident .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose range for Chenodiol is 13 to 16 mg / kg / day in two divided doses , morning and night , starting with 250 mg b . i . d . the first two weeks and increasing by 250 mg / day each week thereafter until the recommended or maximum tolerated dose is reached .
If diarrhea occurs during dosage buildup or later in treatment , it usually can be controlled by temporary dosage adjustment until symptoms abate , after which the previous dosage usually is tolerated .
Dosage less than 10 mg / kg usually is ineffective and may be associated with increased risk of cholecystectomy , so is not recommended .
Weight / Dosage GuideBody Weight Recommended Tablets per Day Dose Range ( mg / kg ) • Lbs .
• Kgs .
• 100 - 130 • 45 - 58 3 • 17 - 13 • 131 - 185 • 59 - 75 4 • 17 - 13 • 186 - 200 • 76 - 90 5 • 18 - 14 • 201 - 235 • 91 - 107 6 • 18 - 14 • 236 - 275 • 108 - 125 7 • 18 - 14 The optimal frequency of monitoring liver function tests is not known .
It is suggested that serum aminotransferase levels should be monitored monthly for the first three months and every three months thereafter during Chenodiol administration .
Under NCGS guidelines , if a minor , usually transient elevation ( 1 ½ to3 three times the upper limit of normal ) persisted longer than three to six months , Chenodiol was discontinued and resumed only after the aminotransferase level returned to normal ; however , allowing the elevation to persist over such an interval is not known to be safe .
Elevations over three times the upper limit of normal require immediate discontinuation of Chenodiol and usually reoccur on challenge .
Serum cholesterol should be monitored at six - month intervals .
It may be advisable to discontinue Chenodiol if cholesterol rises above the acceptable age - adjusted limit for given patient .
Oral cholecystograms or ultrasonograms are recommended at six - to nine - month intervals to monitor response .
Complete dissolutions should be confirmed by a repeat test after one to three months continued Chenodiol administration .
Most patients who eventually achieve complete dissolution will show partial ( or complete ) dissolution at the first on - treatment test .
If partial dissolution is not seen by nine to 12 months , the likelihood of success of treating longer is greatly reduced ; Chenodiol should be discontinued if there is no response by 18 months .
Safety of use beyond 24 months is not established .
Stone recurrence can be expected within five years in 50 % of cases .
After confirmed dissolution , treatment generally should be stopped .
Serial cholecystograms or ultrasonograms are recommended to monitor for recurrence , keeping in mind that radiolucency and gallbladder function should be established before starting another course of Chenodiol .
A prophylactic dose is not established ; reduced doses cannot be recommended ; stones have recurred on 500 mg / day .
Low cholesterol or carbohydrate diets , and dietary bran , have been reported to reduce biliary cholesterol ; maintenance of reduced weight is recommended to forestall stone recurrence .
HOW SUPPLIED Chenodiol is available as white film - coated 250 mg tablets imprinted “ MP ” on one side and " 250 " on the other side and are offered in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 79739 - 7121 - 1 ) .
Store at 20 oC to 25 oC ( 68 oF to 77 oF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container .
Manufactured by : Nexgen Pharma , Inc . , Irvine , CA 92606 , USA Rev . 08 / 2020 LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Chenodiol , 100 - count , Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
