Active ingredient chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Povidone - Iodine USP , 5 % Purpose Antiseptic Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses • helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection • for preparation of skin prior to surgery Warnings For external use only Do not use • on patients with known allergies to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients in this product • for lumbar punctures or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if chlorhexidine is permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Do not use if you have a known sensitivity to iodine or any other ingredient in this product .
Do not use in eyes .
If product gets into eyes , flush immediately with water .
Do not use on infants less than 2 months old due to the risk of increased blood iodine levels .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Directions 2 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate Cloth • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• do not microwave • product and packaging are not sterile .
Follow your hospital policy for skin preparation with non - sterile products .
To open package • holding top of package in one hand , lift flap on backside of package with other hand • grasp flap at top and pull down to tear flap away and expose foam • hold outside of package to present foam and cloths to prep table , avoiding contact between cloths and outside of package to reduce risk of cloth contamination .
Or • using sterile scissors , cut off end seal of package • transfer contents onto prep table , avoiding contact between cloths and outside of package to reduce risk of cloth contamination • use first cloth to prepare the skin area indicated for a moist or dry site , making certain to keep the second cloth where it will not be contaminated .
Use second cloth to prepare larger areas .
• dry surgical sites ( such as abdomen or arm ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 161 cm2 area ( approximately 5 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
• moist surgical sites ( such as inguinal fold ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 65 cm2 area ( approximately 2 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
• discard each cloth after a single use • after package has been opened discard any unused cloths Directions 3 M Skin and Nasal Antiseptic • open package and remove bottle and swabs • unscrew cap by turning cap counter - clockwise Skin Application : • Apply to clean dry skin .
• Dip one swab into solution and stir vigorously for 10 seconds .
Withdraw the swab slowly to avoid wiping solution off during removal .
• Scrub prep site for 2 minutes working from clean to dirty using both sides of the swab .
• Repeat steps 2 & 3 using second swab .
• Allow prep solution to dry .
Do not blot .
Nasal Application : • Use a tissue to clean the inside of both nostrils including the inside tip of nostril .
Discard .
• Tilting the bottle slightly , dip one swab into solution and stir vigorously for 10 seconds .
Withdraw the swab slowly to avoid wiping solution off during removal .
• Insert swab comfortably into one nostril and rotate for 15 seconds covering all surfaces .
Then focus on the inside tip of nostril and rotate for an additional 15 seconds .
( swab 1 ) • Using a new swab : Repeat steps 2 & 3 with the other nostril .
( swab 2 ) • Repeat the application in both nostrils using a fresh swab each time .
( swabs 3 & 4 ) • Do not blow nose .
If solution drips out of nose , it can be lightly dabbed with a tissue .
Inactive ingredients 2 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate Cloth aloe vera , dimethicone , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , glycerin , Igepal , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , USP purified water cloth : polyester Inactive ingredients 3 M Skin and Nasal Antiseptic Lactic acid , lauramidopropylamine oxide , malic acid , polyquarternium - 10 , PPG - 5 - ceteth - 10 phosphate , sodium hydroxide , sodium iodide , steareth - 100 , water , xylitol 2 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate * Cloth NDC 053462 – 705 – 23 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 M Skin and Nasal Antiseptic NDC 17518 – 060 – 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 M Skin and Nasal Antiseptic NDC 17518 – 060 – 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
