Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of Nystatin Ointment USP contains 100 , 000 units of nystatin in a white petrolatum base .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is an antifungal antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro , against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
It probably acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is a polyene antibiotic of undetermined structural formula that is obtained from Streptomyces noursei , and is the first well tolerated antifungal antibiotic of dependable efficacy for the treatment of cutaneous , oral and intestinal infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
It exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria .
Nystatin provides specific therapy for all localized forms of candidiasis .
Symptomatic relief is rapid , often occurring within 24 to 72 hours after the initiation of treatment .
Cure is effected both clinically and mycologically in most cases of localized candidiasis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Ointment USP is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Ointment USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Should a reaction of hypersensitivity occur the drug should be immediately withdrawn and appropriate measures taken .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants , even on prolonged administration .
If irritation on topical application should occur , discontinue medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Ointment USP should be applied liberally to the affected areas twice a day or as indicated until healing is complete .
The ointment does not stain the skin or mucous membranes and it provides a simple , convenient means of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Ointment USP 100 , 000 units / g 15 g tube ( 0 . 53 oz ) 30 g tube ( 1 . 1 oz ) Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
Do not freeze .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 10 / 2019 3701600 - 478 GW7351 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis NDC 0472 - 0166 - 15 Nystatin Ointment USP 100 , 000 units per gram Rx Only For External Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use 15 g ( 0 . 53 oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
