Active Ingredient Dimethicone ( Blend ) 92 % Composition Mineral Oil , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride and Lemon Fragrance .
Characteristics Delice ® does not contain any harmful insecticides . The solutioncreeps deeply into the breathing syatem of lice , nymphs and eggs ( nits ) resultingin suffocation .
Because this mechanism of action is physical , the development of resistance inlice is not possible .
Indications Delice ® is a physical treatment of scalp hair in case of infestation with head lice ; if used as instructedit is also effective against nymphs and eggs ( nits ) .
Contraindications Delice ® must not be used in people with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
If any allergic skin reactions should occur , treatment should be stopped immediately .
Delice ® should not be used in children under the age of two years because thee s no enoughstudies demonstrate the safety use on this group .
Precautions Delice ® is for external use only .
Avoid inhaling Delice ® .
Precaution Keep out of reach of children Warnings When using Delice ® , you should make sure that the solution does not come into contact with eyes or mucous membranes ( nose and throat ) .
if the solution gets into the eyes accidently , rinse for 10 - 15 minutes with plenty of water .
If irritation persists please consult your doctor or pharmacist .
Because some ingredients are flammable , Delice ® must not be used near naked flames or heat sources , including hair dryers .
Keep Delice ® away from sources of ignition and do not smoke during using this product .
If Delice ® spilled accidently , there is danger of slipping .
Spillage should therefore be cleaned up immediately .
Pregnancy Delice ® should not be used in pregnant women because there is no enough studies demonstrate the safety use on these groups .
Lactation Delice ® should not be used in breast - feeding women because there is no enough studies demonstrate the safety use on these groups .
Interactions Delice ® could react with certain hair care and hair tinting products .
Side Effects In rare cases , allergic skin reactions can be triggered by one of the ingredientsof Delice ® .
These occur as inflammation , sewlling , redeness or rashes .
Storage Conditions Store below 30 ° C . Presentation Glass bottle 50 ml , despensing pump and special comb .
Instructions Before Delice ® is used for the first time ; the enclosed dispensing pump must be screwed onto the glass bottle .
To do this , remove the screw cap from the bottle and screw the dispensing pumpon tight .
Always hold the spray bottle upright or the pump will not be able to work properly .
Please note that the pump will need to primed , by pumping , when used for the first time and when used it has been unused for a long period .
Inspect all scalp hair of each family member with the Delice ® comb .
All affected family members must use Delice ® on the same day to avoid re - infestation .
Delice ® comb should be cleaned thoroughly after use .
1 .
Spray Delice ® on the hair and leave it for 30 minutes .
Use Delice on a dry hair ; spray the product on overall the hair with scalp massaging by using the inserted comb , to work effectively , whole hair should be wetted by Delice completely , so the product reaches all the lice , egges and nits .
The amount of used product depends on the hair length and density .
Make sure that the hair near the scalp and behind the ears is covered by the product because the lice and nits are concentrated there .
Leave Delice on hair for 30 minutes .
2 .
After 30 minutes , comb the hair carefully using the lice comb .
After leaving Delice on hair for 30 minutes minimum , comb the hair by using the inserted comb to remove the strangled lice , Delice solution makes the hair combing easier , because it contains ingredients which make the combing hair regardless its length easier .
What is the right way to use the lice comb ?
Divide the hair into several parts , and each part in several smaller strands of hair , comb each strand separately with the hair roots and ending with spikes , attach each combed strand backwards , and clean the comb after each strand combing with tissues before resuming combing the other strands .
3 .
Do not wash out leave the hair to dry at least 8 hours ( overnights ) .
Lice eggs are more flexible and difficult to remove it , Lice makes lice eggs adhere with hair like small balls with white heads , in addition it secretes an adhesive material similar to the composition of hair , even good combing is not enough to remove all the eggs , so you should leave Delice on hair for 8 hours , even the most stubborn eggs will choke .
4 .
Wash out with normal commercial shampoo .
You can wash Delice solution from hair after eight hours by using any normal shampoo , any traces of solution remains on the hair after the first washing can be easily removed by a second washing .
5 .
After 8 - 10 days , re - apply if necessary .
To ensure that all lice and eggs are treated , you must re - apply using the solution by the same procedure which described above .
Delice use is safe and you can reuse it many times if necessary .
Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
