Composition Each 1 g contains : Hydroquinone 40 mg , Tretinoin 0 . 5 mg and Fluocinolone Acetonide 0 . 1 mg .
Excipients : Emulsifying Wax , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Cetostaeryl Alcohol , Glycerol Monostearate , Stearic Acid , White Soft Paraffin , Sodium Metabisulfite , Methylparaben , Citric Acid , Butylated Hydroxyanisole , Propylparaben , and Purified Water .
Properties Fluocinolone acetonide is a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatological use and is classified therapeutically as an anti - inflammatory .
It is a white crystalline powder that is odorless and stable in light .
Hydroquinone is classified therapeutically as a de - pigmenting agent .
It is prepared from the reduction of p - benzoquinone with sodium bisulfite .
It occurs as fine white needles that darken on exposure to air .
Tretinoin is all - trans - retinoic acid formed from the oxidation of the aldehyde group of retinene to a carboxyl group .
It occurs as yellow to light - orange crystals or crystalline powder with a characteristic odor of ensilage .
It is highly reactive to light and moisture .
Tretinoin is classified therapeutically as a keratolytic .
Indications Triderma is indicated for the short - term intermittent treatment of moderate to severe melasma of the face , in the presence of measures for sun avoidance , including the use of sunscreens .
Contraindications Triderma is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity , allergy , or intolerance to this product or any of its components .
Precautions Triderma contains hydroquinone and tretinoin that may cause mild to moderate irritation .
Local irritation , such as skin reddening , peeling , mild burning sensation , dryness , and pruritus may be expected at the site of application .
Transient skin reddening or mild burning sensation does not preclude treatment .
If a reaction suggests hypersensitivity or chemical irritation , the use of the medication should be discontinued .
Triderma also contains the corticosteroid fluocinolone acetonide .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroid while on treatment .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , the use of Tridema should be discontinued .
Recovery of HPA axis function generally occurs upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Triderma Cream contains the teratogen , tretinoin , which may cause embryo - fetal death , altered fetal growth , congenital malformations , and potential neurologic deficits .
It is difficult to interpret the animal studies on teratogenicity with Tridrema Cream , because the availability of the dermal applications in these studies cannot be assured , and comparison with clinical dosing is not possible .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Triderma should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Lactation Corticosteroids , when systemically administered , appear in human milk .
It is not known whether topical application of Triderma could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities of fluocinolone acetonide , hydroquinone , or tretinoin in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Triderma is administered to a nursing woman .
Care should be taken to avoid contact between the infant being nursed and Triderma .
Drug Interactions Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics with drying effects , products with high concentration of alcohol and astringent , and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on Tridema treatment .
Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
Warnings Triderma contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life threatening asthmatic episodes in susceptible people .
Triderma contains hydroquinone , which may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , whose occurrence should prompt discontinuation of therapy .
The majority of patients developing this condition are Black , but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics .
Cutaneous hypersensitivity to the active ingredients of Triderma has been reported in the literature .
In a patch test study to determine sensitization potential in 221 healthy volunteers , three volunteers developed sensitivity reactions to the product or its components .
Dosage and Administration Triderma should be applied once daily at night .
It should be applied at least 30 minutes before bedtime .
Gently wash the fuce and neck with a mild cleanser .
Rinse and pat the skin dry .
Apply a thin film of the cream to the hyper pigmented areas of melasma including about 1 / 2 inch of normal appearing skin surrounding each lesion .
Rub lightly and uniformly into the skin .
Do not use occlusive dressing .
During the day , use a sunscreen of SPF 30 , and wear protective clothing .
Avoid sunlight exposure .
Patients may use moisturizers and / or cosmetics during the day .
Duration of Action : Triderma Cream is for short - term ( up to 8 weeks ) treatment of moderate to severe melasma of the face .
It is not for long term ( more than 8 weeks ) or maintenance ( continuous ) treatment of melasma .
Milder forms of melasma may not need treatment with medicine .
Melasma can also be managed by staying out of the sun or by stopping the use of birth control methods that involve hormones .
Overdosage No information provided .
Side Effects The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings , especially with higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneifom , eruptions , hypopigmentations , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Storage Store below 25 ° C , tightly closed .
How supplied 30 g packs .
THIS IS A MEDICAMENT • Medicament is a product which affects your health and its consumption contrary to instructions is dangerous for you .
• Strictly follow the doctor ' s prescription , the method of use and the instruction of the pharmacist who sold the medicament .
• The doctor and the pharmacist are experts in medicine , its benefits and risks .
• Do not by yourself interrupt the period of treatment prescribed for you .
• Do not repeat the same prescription without consulting your doctor .
• Keep medicament out of reach of children .
Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
