Simpurity 75 % alcohol Hand Sanitizer This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the 1994 tentative final monograph for consumer antiseptics .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• hydroxyethylcellulose • aloe powder • propylene glycol • hyaluronic acid • tea tree essential oil • vitamin E • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
The product has undergone finished formulation product testing ( kill study ) to confirm effifacy and safety .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Uses Helps reduce bacteria on the skin that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients distilled water hydroxyethylcellulose aloe powder propylene glycol hyaluronic acid tea tree essential oil vitamin E 74069 - 002 - 08 240 mL Package Label - Principal Display Panel 240 mL NDC : 074069 - 002 - 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 74069 - 002 - 04 Principal Display Panel 120 mL NDC : 074069 - 002 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
