Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Contents under pressure - do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF .
Directions Shake well before use Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
Do not apply in windy conditions Use in a well - ventilated area Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating Immediately after towel drying At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor before use .
Inactive Ingredients Fragrance , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Tocopheryl Acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration Questions or Comments ?
Call ( 631 ) 800 - 7 SPF ( 800 - 7773 ) or hello @ basksuncare . com Bask Clean Reef - Safe Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Continuous Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
