This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer , Antimicrobial Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce germs on the skin Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use in or near eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if irritation appears Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Wet hands with the product and briskly rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years in use of this product Other information • Store between 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • May discolor certain fabrics Inactive ingredients purified water USP , acrylate copolymer , glycerin , carbomer , propylene glycol , aloe leaf extract , lemon oil , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , tocopheryl acetate Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 118 mL NDC : 75540 - 253 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
