WARNING Serious and / or life - threatening peripheral ischemia has been associated with the coadministration of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets with potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors including protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics .
Because CYP 3A4 inhibition elevates the serum levels of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets , the risk for vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities is increased .
Hence , concomitant use of these medications is contraindicated ( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections ) .
DESCRIPTION Each tablet for oral administration contains 1 mg ergotamine tartrate , USP , and 100 mg caffeine , USP .
ERGOTAMINE TARTRATE : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( C 33 H 35 N 5 O 5 ) 2 • C 4 H 6 O 6 M . W . 1313 . 41 Ergotaman - 3 ’ , 6 ’ , 18 - trione , 12 ’ - hydroxy - 2 ’ - methyl - 5 ’ - ( phenyl - methyl ) - , ( 5 ’ α ) , [ R - ( R * , R * ) ] - 2 , 3 - dihydroxy - butanedioate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) CAFFEINE : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 8 H 10 N 4 O 2 ( anhydrous ) M . W . 194 . 19 1 H - Purine - 2 , 6 - dione , 3 , 7 - dihydro - 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethyl - Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Film coating includes the following ingredients : macrogol / PEG 3350 , polyvinyl alcohol , purified water , talc , titanium dioxide , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , FD & C red # 40 aluminum lake , and FD & C yellow # 5 tartrazine aluminum lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ergotamine is an alpha adrenergic blocking agent with a direct stimulating effect on the smooth muscle of peripheral and cranial blood vessels and produces depression of central vasomotor centers .
The compound also has the properties of serotonin antagonism .
In comparison to hydrogenated ergotamine , the adrenergic blocking actions are less pronounced and vasoconstrictive actions are greater .
Caffeine , also a cranial vasoconstrictor , is added to further enhance the vasoconstrictive effect without the necessity of increasing ergotamine dosage .
Many migraine patients experience excessive nausea and vomiting during attacks , making it impossible for them to retain any oral medication .
In such cases , therefore , the only practical means of medication is through the rectal route where medication may reach the cranial vessels directly , evading the splanchnic vasculature and the liver .
Pharmacokinetics Interactions : Pharmacokinetic interactions ( increased blood levels of ergotamine ) have been reported in patients treated orally with ergotamine and macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , troleandomycin , clarithromycin , erythromycin ) , and in patients treated orally with ergotamine and protease inhibitors ( e . g . ritonavir ) presumably due to inhibition of cytochrome P450 3 A metabolism of ergotamine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Ergotamine has also been shown to be an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3 A catalyzed reactions .
No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets are indicated as therapy to abort or prevent vascular headache ; e . g . , migraine , migraine variants or so - called “ histaminic cephalalgia . ”
CONTRAINDICATIONS Coadministration of ergotamine with potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors ( ritonavir , nelfinavir , indinavir , erythromycin , clarithromycin , and troleandomycin ) has been associated with acute ergot toxicity ( ergotism ) characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , with some cases resulting in amputation .
There have been rare reports of cerebral ischemia in patients on protease inhibitor therapy when ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets was coadministered , at least one resulting in death .
Because of the increased risk of ergotism and other serious vasospastic adverse events , ergotamine use is contraindicated with these drugs and other potent inhibitors of CYP 3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) ( see WARNINGS : CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ) .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this product , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Peripheral vascular disease , coronary heart disease , hypertension , impaired hepatic or renal function and sepsis .
Hypersensitivity to any of the components .
WARNINGS CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors ) Coadministration of ergotamine with potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors such as protease inhibitors or macrolide antibiotics has been associated with serious adverse events ; for this reason , these drugs should not be given concomitantly with ergotamine ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
While these reactions have not been reported with less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors , there is a potential risk for serious toxicity including vasospasm when these drugs are used with ergotamine .
Examples of less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include : saquinavir , nefazodone , fluconazole , fluoxetine , grapefruit juice , fluvoxamine , zileuton , metronidazole , and clotrimazole .
These lists are not exhaustive , and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with ergotamine .
Fibrotic Complications There have been a few reports of patients on ergotamine tartrate and caffeine therapy developing retroperitoneal and / or pleuropulmonary fibrosis .
There have also been rare reports of fibrotic thickening of the aortic , mitral , tricuspid , and / or pulmonary valves with long - term continuous use of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should not be used for chronic daily administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
PRECAUTIONS This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
General Although signs and symptoms of ergotism rarely develop even after long - term intermittent use of the orally administered drug , care should be exercised to remain within the limits of recommended dosage .
Ergotism is manifested by intense arterial vasoconstriction , producing signs and symptoms of peripheral vascular ischemia .
Ergotamine induces vasoconstriction by a direct action on vascular smooth muscle .
In chronic intoxication with ergot derivatives , headache , intermittent claudication , muscle pains , numbness , coldness , and pallor of the digits may occur .
If the condition is allowed to progress untreated , gangrene can result .
While most cases of ergotism associated with ergotamine treatment result from frank overdosage , some cases have involved apparent hypersensitivity .
There are few reports of ergotism among patients taking doses within the recommended limits or for brief periods of time .
In rare instances , patients , particularly those who have used the medication indiscriminately over long periods of time , may display withdrawal symptoms consisting of rebound headache upon discontinuation of the drug .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that two tablets of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should be taken at the first sign of a migraine headache .
No more than 6 tablets should be taken for any single migraine attack .
No more than 10 tablets should be taken during any 7 - day period .
Administration of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should not exceed the dosing guidelines and should not be used for chronic daily administration ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should be used only for migraine headaches .
It is not effective for other types of headaches and it lacks analgesic properties .
Patients should be advised to report to the physician immediately any of the following : numbness or tingling in the fingers and toes , muscle pain in the arms and legs , weakness in the legs , pain in the chest or temporary speeding or slowing of the heart rate , swelling or itching .
Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors ) See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should not be administered with other vasoconstrictors .
Use with sympathomimetics ( pressor agents ) may cause extreme elevation of blood pressure .
The beta - blocker Inderal ( propranolol ) has been reported to potentiate the vasoconstrictive action of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets by blocking the vasodilating property of epinephrine .
Nicotine may provoke vasoconstriction in some patients , predisposing to a greater ischemic response to ergot therapy .
The blood levels of ergotamine - containing drugs are reported to be elevated by the concomitant administration of macrolide antibiotics and vasospastic reactions have been reported with therapeutic doses of the ergotamine - containing drugs when coadministered with these antibiotics .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category X There are no studies on the placental transfer or teratogenicity of the combined products of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets .
Caffeine is known to cross the placenta and has been shown to be teratogenic in animals .
Ergotamine crosses the placenta in small amounts , although it does not appear to be embryotoxic in this quantity .
However , prolonged vasoconstriction of the uterine vessels and / or increased myometrial tone leading to reduced myometrial and placental blood flow may have contributed to fetal growth retardation observed in animals ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Nonteratogenic Effects Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets is contraindicated in pregnancy due to the oxytocic effects of ergotamine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Labor and Delivery Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets is contraindicated in labor and delivery due to its oxytocic effect which is maximal in the third trimester ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Nursing Mothers Ergot drugs are known to inhibit prolactin but there are no reports of decreased lactation with ergotamine tartrate and caffeine .
Ergotamine is excreted in breast milk and may cause symptoms of vomiting , diarrhea , weak pulse and unstable blood pressure in nursing infants .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular : Vasoconstrictive complications of a serious nature may occur at times .
These include ischemia , cyanosis , absence of pulse , cold extremities , gangrene , precordial distress and pain , EKG changes and muscle pains .
Although these effects occur most commonly with long - term therapy at relatively high doses , they have also been reported with short - term or normal doses .
Other cardiovascular adverse effects include transient tachycardia or bradycardia and hypertension .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting Neurological : Paresthesias , numbness , weakness , and vertigo Allergic : Localized edema and itching .
Fibrotic Complications : ( see WARNINGS ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 , or contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE There have been reports of drug abuse and psychological dependence in patients on ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets therapy .
Due to the chronicity of vascular headaches , it is imperative that patients be advised not to exceed recommended dosages with long - term use to avoid ergotism ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic effects of an acute overdosage of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets are due primarily to the ergotamine component .
The amount of caffeine is such that its toxic effects will be overshadowed by those of ergotamine .
Symptoms include vomiting ; numbness , tingling , pain and cyanosis of the extremities associated with diminished or absent peripheral pulses ; hypertension or hypotension ; drowsiness , stupor , coma , convulsions and shock .
A case has been reported of reversible bilateral papillitis with ring scotomata in a patient who received five times the recommended daily adult dose over a period of 14 days .
Treatment consists of removal of the offending drug by induction of emesis , gastric lavage , and catharsis .
Maintenance of adequate pulmonary ventilation , correction of hypotension , and control of convulsions and blood pressure are important considerations .
Treatment of peripheral vasospasm should consist of warmth , but not heat , and protection of the ischemic limbs .
Vasodilators may be beneficial but caution must be exercised to avoid aggravating an already existent hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Procedure : For the best results , dosage should start at the first sign of an attack .
Adults : Take 2 tablets at the start of attack ; 1 additional tablet every ½ hour , if needed for full relief ( maximum 6 tablets per attack , 10 per week ) .
Maximum Adult Dosage : Total daily dose for any one attack should not exceed 6 tablets .
Total weekly dosage should not exceed 10 tablets .
Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets should not be used for chronic daily administration .
In carefully selected patients , with due consideration of maximum dosage recommendations , administration of the drug at bedtime may be an appropriate short - term preventive measure .
HOW SUPPLIED Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine tablets , USP for oral administration are available as : 1 mg / 100 mg : beige ( film coated ) , round , convex face tablets , debossed “ 123 ” on one side and “ MH ” on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ......
NDC 24470 - 917 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by Cintex Services , LLC Dallas , TX 75243 Manufactured by : MIKART , LLC Atlanta , GA 30318 Code 1098C00 Rev . 10 / 20 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
