Graxcell Pharmaceutical , llc .
Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safe and effective , and this labelling has not been approved by FDA .
Hydrocortisone acetae , 25 mg .
Rectal suppositories .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Acetate is a corticosteroid designated chemically as pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11β ) with the following structural formula : Each rectal suppository contains hydrocortisone acetate , USP 25 mg in a specially blended hydrogenated vegetable oil base [ MULTIMEDIA ] In normal subjects , about 26 % of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasconstrictive action .
Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for the use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post - irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis ; as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis ; cryptitis ; and other inflammatory conditions of anorectum and puritus ani .
Hydrocortisone Acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients having a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate or any of the components Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenic : No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
The following local adverse reactions have been reported with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories ; burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection .
To report suspected adverse reactions , contact Graxcell pharmaceutical , llc .
1 - 888 - 266 - 8818 or FDA @ 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Usual Dosage : One suppository in the rectum morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily : or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy in six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
Rx only .
OPENING INSTRUCTIONS Avoid excessive handling of the suppository .
It is designed to melt at body temperature .
1 .
Separate plastic film at top opening and pull downward .
2 .
Continue pulling downward to almost the full length of the suppository .
3 .
Gently remove the suppsitory from the film pocket .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Acetate suppositories 25 mg are white , cyclinder shaped , with one end tapered .
Package of 12 NDC 70795 - 2412 - 1 and Package of 24 NDC 70795 - 2412 - 2 Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store away from heat .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Graxcell pharmaceutical , LLC .
130 knickerbocker ave , Bohemia , NY 11716 Manufactured by : Graxcell pharmaceutical , llc .
136 OAk Drive , syosset , NY 11791 1 - 888 - 266 - 8818 .
Drug abuse and dependece have not been reported in patients treated with Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
