Dear Healthcare Provider Letter Laboratoire AGUETTANT 1 Rue Alexander Fleming 69007 LYON - FRANCE IMPORTANT DRUG INFORMATION ZINC INJECTION AVAILABILITY July 23 , 2013 Subject : Temporary importation of Zinc injectable 1 mg / ml ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion ( equivalent to elemental zinc 1 mg / mL ) Dear Healthcare Professional , Due to the current critical shortage of zinc injection drug products in the United States ( U . S . ) , Laboratoire Aguettant ( Aguettant ) is coordinating with the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to increase the availability of these products .
Aguettant has initiated temporary importation into the U . S . , through its U . S . distributor Baxter Healthcare Corporation , the non - FDA - approved zinc - containing drug , Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion ( equivalent to elemental zinc 1 mg / mL ) : Lot T - 7506 C , expiration date 02 - 2015 , and Lot T - 7519 C , expiration date 03 - 2015 .
This product is marketed in France , and is manufactured for Aguettant at a FDA - inspected facility in France that is in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices ( GMP ) regulations enforced in Europe .
At this time , FDA ' s regulatory discretion for the importation and distribution of Aguettant ' s Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion ( equivalent to elemental zinc 1 mg / mL ) is limited to Aguettant and its distributor Baxter Healthcare Corporation during the critical shortage of zinc injection .
Importation and distributionof this product in the United States byany entity other than Aguettant and its distributor Baxter Healthcare Corporation is outside the scope of FDA ' s regulatory discretion , and FDA has not approved Aguettant ' s Zinc injectable product in the U . S . Effective immediately , and during this temporary period , Aguettant will offer the following presentation of zinc injection : Zinc Injectable ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) 1 mg / mL , solution for infusion 10 mL glass vials Authorization # 333 414 - 4 ( France ) Box of 10 vials The vial and carton labels will display the original French product labels as marketed inFrance .
At the end of this letter is a product comparison table with the French prescribing information translated into English , as well as images of the French labels with their English translation for your reference .
Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion is meant to be used the same way as the U . S . marketed drugs , and provides 1 mg / mL of elemental zinc .
Each vial is single use only and must be diluted prior to infusion .
Please discard each vial after single use .
There are some key differences in labeling between the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product and Aguettant ' s zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion ( please see also the product comparison tables attached ) .
• Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL solution for infusion ( equivalent to elemental zinc 1 mg / mL ) contains zinc gluconate trihydrate as the active substance , which is a different salt than those used in other zinc drugs for injection , i . e . zinc chloride and zinc sulfate .
Also , note that our manufacturer of zinc gluconate trihydrate complies with the U . S . Pharmacopoeia monograph for zinc gluconate trihydrate .
We consider this formulation an appropriate alternative to the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product when used as explained below .
• The composition in active substance is equivalent to one milligram of elemental zinc per milliliter of solution .
The only excipient is water for injections , and the pH of the drug is comprised between 5 . 5 and 7 . 0 .
• No specific precautions are required for the storage of Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion .
As with your usual zinc injection drug products , you may store this at controlled room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion is available only by prescription in theU . S .
Please refer to the package insert for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product for full prescribing information and follow the instructions presented in the FDA - approved package insert for dosing and use in pregnancy recommendations .
Please note the difference in the maximum potential aluminum content ( higher in the foreign product ) .
• Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) , solution for infusion is meant to be used by parenteral administration ( infusion ) , only after dilution in an isotonic solution or in a mixture for parenteral nutrition .
• Dosing instructions for Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) , solution for infusion differ from dosing instructions for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product .
We recommend that you follow the labeling instructions for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product .
• Instructions regarding use in pregnancy for Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) , solution for infusion differ from dosing instructions for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product .
We recommend that you follow the labeling instructions for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product .
• Maximum potential aluminum content for Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) , solution for infusion is higher than that for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product .
Consider risks of aluminum toxicity against benefit of zinc supplementation when prescribing Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) , solution for infusion .
The aluminum content of Lot T - 7506 C and Lot T - 7519 C is each no more than 100 mcg / L at the time of this import .
Aluminum testing is not a requirement for registration of this product inFrance .
However in support of FDA ' s regulatory discretion for temporary importation , testing was performed perU . S . regulation 21 CFR 201 . 323 .
The aluminum content for lots at expiry was found to be no higher than 350 mcg / L .
The barcodemay not registeraccurately on the U . S . scanning systems .
Institutions should manually input the product into their systems and confirm that barcode systems do not provide incorrect information when the product is scanned .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
To place an order , or if you have any questions about the information contained in this letter or the use of Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion , please call Baxter ' s Center for Service at 1 - 888 - 229 - 0001 , available from 7 : 00 am to 6 : 00 pm Central Standard Time , or email CFS _ Customer _ Service @ baxter . com .
We encourage health care providers to report any adverse events and medication errors that occur while using this product , as for any other drug .
To report adverse events associated with Zinc injectable 1 mg / mL ( zinc gluconate trihydrate ) solution for infusion , please call Baxter Healthcare Surveillance at 1 - 866 - 888 - 2472 ( Monday – Friday 9 : 00 am to 5 : 00 pm Central Standard Time ) , or fax at 1 - 800 - 759 - 1801 ( 24 hrs / day , 7 days / week ) .
Adverse events that may be related to the use of this product may also be reported to FDA ' s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting Program either online , by regular mail or by fax : • Online : http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail : Use postage paid FDA form 3500 available at : http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch / getforms . htm Mail to MedWatch FDA , 5600 Fishers Lane , Rockville , MD20852 - 9787 • Fax : 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 We remain at your disposal to answer the questions you might have about our product , and provide more information if needed .
Thank you for your understanding , Eric ROUGEMOND , MD CEO of Laboratoire Aguettant Product comparison tables ZINC 1 mg / ml zinc chloride injection , USP FDA - approved zinc injection drug product Zinc injectable 1 mg / ml , solution for infusion ( translated into English ) Laboratoire Aguettant Composition Active ingredient Zinc Chloride , USP Zinc Gluconate , USP Strength 2 . 09 mg / mL zinc chloride equivalent to 1 mg / mL elemental zinc 7 . 80 mg / mL zinc gluconate equivalent to 1 mg / mL elemental zinc Inactive ingredients Sodium chloride 9 mg / mL Hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment Water for injections Content in aluminum Not more than 150 mcg / L Not more than 1500 mcg / L ( not stated on the insert ) Physiochemical parameters pH 2 . 0 ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 ) 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 ( not stated on the insert ) Osmolarity 0 . 354 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
0 . 30 to 0 . 35 mOsmol / mL ( not stated on the insert ) Description Sterile , non - pyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to intravenous solutions for total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
Solution for infusion .
Supplementation solution for prolonged parenteral nutrition and for prevention of severe zinc deficiency .
Sterile solution ( not stated on the insert ) The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
( not stated on the insert ) How supplied 10 mL plastic vials 10 mL glass vials ; pack of 10 vials Storage conditions Store at 20 to25 ° C ( 68 to77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
No special precautions for storage .
Country - specific information Marketing Authorization Number : 333 414 - 4 Expiration date format MM / YYYY Drug status Rx only Non - prescription drug Authorization holder Laboratoire AGUETTANT 1 , rue Alexander Fleming 69007 LYON FRANCE Comparison of prescribing information Clinical pharmacology 5 . 1 Pharmacodynamic properties 5 . 2 Pharmacokinetic properties 5 . 3 Preclinical safety data Zinc is an essential nutritional requirement and serves as a cofactor for more than 70 different enzymes including carbonic anhydrase , alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase , and both RNA and DNA polymerase .
Zinc facilitates wound healing , helps maintain normal growth rates , normal skin hydration , and the senses of taste and smell .
Zinc resides in muscle , bone , skin , kidney , liver , pancreas , retina , prostate and particularly in the red and white blood cells .
Zinc binds to plasma albumin , a2 - macroglobulin , and some plasma amino acids including histidine , cysteine , threonine , glycine , and asparagine .
Ingested zinc is excreted mainly in the stool ( approximately 90 % ) , and to a lesser extent in the urine and in perspiration .
Providing zinc helps prevent development of deficiency symptoms such as : Parakeratosis , hypogeusia , anorexia , dysosmia , geophagia , hypogonadism , growth retardation and hepatosplenomegaly .
The initial manifestations of hypozincemia in TPN are diarrhea , apathy and depression .
At plasma levels below 20 mcg zinc / 100 mL dermatitis followed by alopecia has been reported for TPN patients .
Normal zinc plasma levels are 100 ± 12 mcg / 100 mL .
5 . 1 Pharmacodynamic properties INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS ( B : BLOOD AND BLOOD FORMING ORGANS ) Zinc is an essential component of at least 120 metalloenzymes including carbonic anhydrases , alkaline phosphatases , carboxypeptidases , oxidoreductases , transferases , ligases , hydrolases , isomerases and alcohol dehydrogenases .
Zinc also has an important role in the synthesis of nucleic acids ( DNA and RNA ) and in the regulation of RNA catabolism .
Zinc is involved in the transformation of T - lymphocytes and might be involved in the synthesis of insulin .
Hence , zinc participates in the metabolism of carbohydrates , lipids and proteins .
Zinc is indispensable for the growth of premature and full term infants and children .
5 . 2 Pharmacokinetic properties Not available .
5 . 3 Preclinical safety data Not available .
Indications and usage 4 . 1 Therapeutic indications Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration helps to maintain zinc serum levels and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores , and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
Supplementation solution for prolonged parenteral nutrition and for prevention of severe zinc deficiency in conditions such as ( but not limited to ) severe denutrition , hypercatabolism , digestive fistula , chronic diarrhea .
The supplementation scheme must cover the daily needs ( 3 to 4 mg zinc per day for adults ) and compensate for abnormally high losses ( up to 15 mg per day ) .
Contraindications 4 . 3 Contraindications None known .
Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Warnings Direct intramuscular or intravenous injection of Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) is contraindicated as the acidic pH of the solution ( 2 ) may cause considerable tissue irritation .
Severe kidney disease may make it necessary to reduce or omit chromium and zinc doses because these elements are primarily eliminated in the urine .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
4 . 4 Special warnings and precautions for use Warning This product must never be injected as is , but diluted in a solution for infusion .
4 . 5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction In complex parenteral nutrition protocols , special precaution is required to avoid incompatibilities among the added medications .
Precautions 4 . 6 Pregnancy and lactation 4 . 7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines 6 . 2 Incompatibilities General Do not use unless the solution is clear and the seal is intact .
Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) should only be used in conjunction with a pharmacy directed admixture program using aseptic technique in a laminar flow environment ; it should be used promptly and in a single operation without any repeated penetrations .
Solution contains no preservatives ; discard unused portion immediately after admixture procedure is completed .
Zinc should not be given undiluted by direct injection into a peripheral vein because of the likelihood of infusion phlebitis and the potential for increased excretory loss of zinc from a bolus injection .
Administration of zinc in the absence of copper may cause a decrease in serum copper levels .
Laboratory Tests Periodic determinations of serum copper as well as zinc are suggested as a guideline for subsequent zinc administration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) have not been performed , nor have studies been done to assess mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION section .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with zinc chloride .
It is also not known whether zinc chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Zinc chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
4 . 6 Pregnancy and lactation Based on available data , it is possible to use this product for pregnant or breast - feeding women .
4 . 7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines Not relevant .
6 . 2 Incompatibilities In the absence of compatibility studies , this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products .
Adverse reactions 4 . 8 Undesirable effects None known .
Adverse effects are observed with high dosages ( see section 4 . 9 ) .
Drug abuse and dependence ( No equivalent section ) None known .
Overdosage 4 . 9 Overdose Single intravenous doses of 1 to 2 mg zinc / kg body weight have been given to adult leukemic patients without toxic manifestations .
However , acute toxicity was reported in an adult when 10 mg zinc was infused over a period of one hour on each of four consecutive days .
Profuse sweating , decreased level of consciousness , blurred vision , tachycardia ( 140 / min ) , and marked hypothermia ( 94 . 2 ° F ) on the fourth day were accompanied by a serum zinc concentration of 207 mcg / dl .
Symptoms abated within three hours .
Hyperamylasemia may be a sign of impending zinc overdosage ; patients receiving an inadvertent overdose ( 25 mg zinc / liter of TPN solution , equivalent to 50 to 70 mg zinc / day ) developed hyperamylasemia ( 557 to 1850 Klein units ; normal : 130 to 310 ) .
Death resulted from an overdosage in which 1683 mg zinc was delivered intravenously over the course of 60 hours to a 72 year old patient .
Symptoms of zinc toxicity included hypotension ( 80 / 40 mm Hg ) , pulmonary edema , diarrhea , vomiting , jaundice , and oliguria , with a serum zinc level of 4184 mcg / dl .
Calcium supplements may confer a protective effect against zinc toxicity .
No overdose cases were reported with ZINC INJECTABLE 1 mg / ml , solution for infusion .
However , overdose cases by intravenous injection of zinc were reported with manifestations of acute toxicity such as profuse sweating , blurred vision , decreased level of consciousness , hypothermia , tachycardia , jaundice and pulmonary edema .
Hyperamylasemia may be a sign of impending zinc overdosage .
Calcium supplementation may confer a protective effect .
Dosage and administration 4 . 2 Posology and method of administration 6 . 6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling Zinc 1 mg / mL ( Zinc Chloride Injection , USP ) contains 1 mg zinc / mL and is administered intravenously only after dilution .
The additive should be diluted prior to administration in a volume of fluid not less than 100 mL .
For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested intravenous dosage is 2 . 5 to 4 mg zinc / day ( 2 . 5 to 4 mL / day ) .
An additional 2 mg zinc / day ( 2 mL / day ) is suggested for acute catabolic states .
For the stable adult with fluid loss from the small bowel , an additional 12 . 2 mg zinc / liter of small bowel fluid lost ( 12 . 2 mL / liter of small bowel fluid lost ) , or an additional 17 . 1 mg zinc / kg of stool or ileostomy output ( 17 . 1 mL / kg of stool or ileostomy output ) is recommended .
Frequent monitoring of zinc blood levels is suggested for patients receiving more than the usual maintenance dosage level of zinc .
For full term infants and children up to 5 years of age , 100 mcg zinc / kg / day ( 0 . 1 mL / kg / day ) is recommended .
For premature infants ( birth weight less than 1500 g ) up to 3 kg in body weight , 300 mcg zinc / kg / day ( 0 . 3 mL / kg / day ) is suggested .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
4 . 2 Posology and method of administration Each mL contains 1 mg of elemental zinc .
The dosage must be adapted to each patient , taking into account losses and zinc status .
The solution is a supplementation additive for parenteral nutrition intended to be used in mixtures for parenteral nutrition or diluted in isotonic solutions .
Recommended daily intakes by intravenous route are the following : - In pediatric patients : - Premature infants : 0 . 3 to 0 . 35 mg zinc / kg / day , - Full term infants : 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg zinc / kg / day , - Children : 5 mg zinc / day .
- In adults : 3 to 15 mg zinc / day .
6 . 6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling No special precautions .
TRANSLATION OF FRENCH VIAL AND CARTON LABELS Zinc injectable 1 mg / ml , solution for infusion Product will be distributed with the original French labels Laboratoire Aguettant Zinc injectable 1 mg / ml , solution for infusion English translation – for information only Product will be distributed with the original French labels Laboratoire Aguettant Carton Label ( not stated on the label ) : Please refer to the package insert for the FDA - approved zinc injection drug product ( zinc chloride injection , 1 mg / mL ) for full prescribing information .
Vial Label ( not stated on the label ) : Equivalent to elemental zinc 1 mg / mL .
Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Via Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
