Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( Heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredient None Tamper Evident Packaging : Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated Epsom Salt is a trusted remedy that is useful every season of the year .
Beat winter blues Simply dissolve two cups of epsom salt in a warm bath to : • Reduce stiffness and soreness • Warm and comfort your muscle aches A mineral spring spa Springtime is your fresh start to working out , oftentimes leading to overexertion .
Just dissolve two cups of epsom salt in warm bath water , settle in , and experience the relief and relaxation .
First aid summer salts Dissolve two cups of epsom salt in two cups of hot water to make a compress .
Apply as a wet dressing with towel to : • Provide soothing relief from over exertion from sports • Warm and comfort your muscle aches Relax into autumn By dissolving two cups of epsom salt in a warm bath , you ' ll be able to : • Soak away tiredness and soreness • Help soothe away stress For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day .
For a less intensive soak , use 1 or 2 cupfuls in a bath .
Use warm water for best results .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2016 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Made in the U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign components principal display panel Value Size 8 lb CVS Health Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate USP Saline Laxative For external use as a soaking solution For minor sprains and bruises NET WT 8 LBS ( 3 . 62 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
