This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Hydrogen peroxide • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Skin Cleanser Use Antiseptic ( skin ) Cleanser Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use Children adolescents and adults 2 years and over Other information • Store below 43 degree Celcius / 100 degree F • May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on your palm to thoroughly cover your hands .
• Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds .
Allow to dry Inactive ingredients Glycerin , Water , Isopropyl Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Tocopherol Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Carbomer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Parfum Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
