FOR DRUG DILUENT USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION : Sterile Water for Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , solute - free preparation of distilled water for injection .
It is for use only as a sterile solvent or diluent vehicle for drugs or solutions suitable for parenteral administration .
The pH is 5 . 5 ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
Sterile Water for Injection contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for single dose injection after admixture with an appropriate solute or solution .
When smaller amounts are required , the unused portion should be discarded .
Sterile Water for Injection is a pharmaceutic aid ( vehicle ) and parenteral fluid replenisher after addition of an appropriate solute .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H 2 O .
The flexible container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the flexible container can leach out certain of the container ’ s chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the container material has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : When administered intravenously as a vehicle for drugs , sterile water for injection provides a source of water for parenteral fluid replenishment after sufficient solute is introduced to achieve an osmolarity of 112 mOsmol or more per liter .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Sterile Water for Injection is indicated for use only as a solvent or diluent vehicle for parenterally administered drugs or solutions and as a source of water for parenteral fluid replenishment after suitable additives are introduced .
For intravenous administration , an osmolar concentration not less than two - fifths ( 0 . 4 ) of the normal osmolarity of the extracellular fluid ( 280 mOsmol / liter ) is essential to avoid intravascular hemolysis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Do not administer without the addition of a solute .
WARNINGS : FOR DRUG DILUENT USE ONLY .
Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without additives may result in hemolysis .
The intravenous administration of sterile water for injection with additives can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS : Do not use for intravenous injection unless the osmolar concentration of additives totals at least 112 mOsmol / liter ( two - fifths of the normal osmolarity of the extracellular fluid ̶ 280 mOsmol / liter ) .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sterile water for injection .
It is also not known whether sterile water containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sterile water for injection with additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
This product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reactions which may occur because of the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE : In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures ( See WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Following suitable admixture of prescribed additive , the dose is usually dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sterile Water for Injection , USP is supplied in a single dose flexible plastic container as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Bag Size Bags Per Carton 917876 63323 - 178 - 76 1 , 000 mL Bag 10 Bags The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
To Open • Turn solution container over so that the text is face down .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
To Add Medication • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Insert needle horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ’ s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
WARNING : DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451727 Issued : December 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Sterile Water 1 , 000 mL Bag Label freeflex ® 1 , 000 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP Do not give intravenously .
For drug diluent use only .
For intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
