WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER , have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE QuilliChew ER is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
QuilliChew ER is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • QuilliChew ER may be taken with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) • For patients 6 years and above , recommended starting dose is 20 mg given orally once daily in the morning .
Dosage may be titrated weekly in increments of 10 mg , 15 mg or 20 mg per day .
Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating children , adolescents , and adults with CNS stimulants including QuilliChew ER , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for QuilliChew ER use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 General Dosing Information The recommended starting dose of QuilliChew ER for patients 6 years and above is 20 mg once daily orally in the morning .
The dose may be titrated up or down weekly in increments of 10 mg , 15 mg or 20 mg .
The 10 mg and 15 mg doses can each be achieved by breaking in half the functionally scored 20 mg and 30 mg tablets , respectively .
Daily doses above 60 mg have not been studied and are not recommended .
As with any CNS stimulant , during titration of QuilliChew ER , the prescribed dose should be adjusted , if necessary , until a well - tolerated , therapeutic dose is achieved .
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Health care providers should periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of QuilliChew ER , and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions QuilliChew ER should be orally administered once daily in the morning with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Switching from other Methylphenidate Products If switching from other methylphenidate products , discontinue that treatment , and titrate with QuilliChew ER using the above titration schedule .
Do not substitute for other methylphenidate products on a milligram - per - milligram basis , because of different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles [ see Description ( 11 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse effects occur , reduce dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue the drug .
QuilliChew ER should be periodically discontinued to assess the child ' s condition .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Extended - release chewable tablets : 20 mg equivalent of methylphenidate HCl available as a speckled , off - white , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 12 " on one side and functionally scored on the other side .
30 mg equivalent of methylphenidate HCl available as a speckled , light pink color , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 13 " on one side and functionally scored on the other side .
40 mg equivalent of methylphenidate HCl available as a speckled , dark pink to peach color , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 14 " on one side and plain ( not scored ) on the other side .
• Extended - release chewable tablets : 20 mg and 30 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride ( HCl ) , functionally scored ( 3 ) • Extended - release chewable tablets : 40 mg of methylphenidate HCl , not scored ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or product components .
( 4 . 1 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days .
( 4 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity to Methylphenidate or other Components of QuilliChew ER QuilliChew ER is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to methylphenidate , or other components of QuilliChew ER .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors QuilliChew ER is contraindicated during concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , and also within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulants at recommended doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of CNS stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to QuilliChew ER use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon : CNS stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) • Risks in Phenylketonurics : QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets contain phenylalanine , a component of aspartame .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Stroke and myocardial infarction have occurred in adults treated with CNS stimulants at recommended doses .
Sudden death has occurred in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious cardiac problems , and in adults taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious cardiac arrhythmias , coronary artery disease , or other serious cardiac problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during treatment with QuilliChew ER .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 bpm ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing QuilliChew ER .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation of digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in pediatric patients ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or nonmedication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and nonmedication - treated pediatric patients over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated pediatric patients ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
5 . 8 Risks in Patients with Phenylketonuria Phenylalanine can be harmful to patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets contain phenylalanine , a component of aspartame .
Each 20 mg , 30 mg , and 40 mg extended - release chewable tablet contains 3 mg , 4 . 5 mg , and 6 mg phenylalanine , respectively .
Before prescribing QuilliChew ER in patients with PKU , consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources , including QuilliChew ER .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate products or other ingredients of QuilliChew ER [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] • Hypertensive Crisis When Used Concomitantly with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Drug Dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - Term Suppression of Growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Risks in Phenylketonuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Based on accumulated data from other methylphenidate products , the most common ( ≥ 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) adverse reactions are appetite decreased , insomnia , nausea , vomiting , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , weight decreased , anxiety , dizziness , irritability , affect lability , tachycardia , and blood pressure increased .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Tris Pharma , Inc . at ( 732 ) 940 - 0358 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Other Methylphenidate Products in Children , Adolescents , and Adults with ADHD Commonly reported ( ≥ 2 % of the methylphenidate group and at least twice the rate of the placebo group ) adverse reactions from placebo - controlled trials of methylphenidate products include : appetite decreased , weight decreased , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , dry mouth , vomiting , insomnia , anxiety , nervousness , restlessness , affect lability , agitation , irritability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , blurred vision , blood pressure increased , heart rate increased , tachycardia , palpitations , hyperhidrosis , and pyrexia .
Clinical Trials Experience with QuilliChew ER in Children with ADHD There is limited experience with QuilliChew ER in controlled trials .
The safety data in this section is based on data from a laboratory classroom study conducted in 90 pediatric subjects ( ages 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD .
The study consisted of a 6 - week dose optimization period , followed by a randomized , double - blind , parallel group treatment period with the individually optimized dose of QuilliChew ER or placebo .
The most common ( ≥ 2 % in the QuilliChew ER group and greater than placebo ) adverse reactions reported in the double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled phase in patients optimized to doses of QuilliChew ER 20 to 60 mg / day are described in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Subjects on QuilliChew ER and Greater than Placebo During the Double - Blind Period of the ADHD Laboratory Classroom StudyAdverse reaction QuilliChew ER N = 42 n ( % ) Placebo N = 44 n ( % ) Decreased appetite 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) Aggression 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) Emotional poverty 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) Nausea 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) Headache 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) Weight decreased 1 ( 2 . 4 ) 0 ( 0 ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of methylphenidate products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are as follows : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Pancytopenia , Thrombocytopenia , Thrombocytopenic purpura Cardiac Disorders : Angina pectoris , Bradycardia , Extrasystole , Supraventricular tachycardia , Ventricular extrasystole Eye Disorders : Diplopia , Mydriasis , Visual impairment General Disorders : Chest pain , Chest discomfort , Hyperpyrexia Hepatobiliary Disorders : Severe hepatocellular injury Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions such as Angioedema , Anaphylactic reactions , Auricular swelling , Bullous conditions , Exfoliative conditions , Urticarias , Pruritus NEC , Rashes , Eruptions , and Exanthemas NEC Investigations : Alkaline phosphatase increased , Bilirubin increased , Hepatic enzyme increased , Platelet count decreased , White blood cell count abnormal Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : Arthralgia , Myalgia , Muscle twitching , Rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : Convulsion , Grand mal convulsion , Dyskinesia , Serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Psychiatric Disorders : Disorientation , Hallucination , Hallucination auditory , Hallucination visual , Libido changes , Mania Urogenital System : Priapism Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , Erythema Vascular Disorders : Raynaud ’ s phenomenon 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions MAOI Inhibitors Do not administer QuilliChew ER concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment .
Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure .
Antihypertensive Drugs QuilliChew ER may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the hypertensive drug as needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Risperidone Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visiting online at https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / clinical - and - research - programs / pregnancyregistry / othermedications / .
Risk Summary There are limited published studies and small case series that report on the use of methylphenidate in pregnant women ; however , the data are insufficient to inform any drug - associated risks .
There are clinical considerations [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No teratogenic effects were observed in embryo - fetal development studies with oral administration of methylphenidate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses 2 and 11 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
However , spina bifida was observed in rabbits at a dose 40 times the MRHD [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions CNS stimulant medications , such as QuilliChew ER , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In studies conducted in rats and rabbits , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 75 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
Teratogenic effects ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) were observed in rabbits at the highest dose , which is approximately 40 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a mg / m2 basis .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rabbits was 60 mg / kg / day ( 11 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of specific teratogenic activity in rats , although increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations were seen at the highest dose level ( 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , which was also maternally toxic .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rats was 25 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from CNS stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for QuilliChew ER and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from QuilliChew ER or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , insomnia , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of QuilliChew ER have been established in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years .
Use of QuilliChew ER in these age groups is based on one adequate and well - controlled clinical study in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years old , pharmacokinetic data in adolescents and adults , and safety information from other methylphenidate - containing products .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with CNS stimulants , including QuilliChew ER .
Children who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Data Rats treated with methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a mg / m2 basis .
In the study conducted in young rats , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal weeks 13 to 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females exposed to the highest dose ( 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( half the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use QuilliChew ER has not been studied in patients over the age of 65 years .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance QuilliChew ER contains methylphenidate , a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants including QuilliChew ER , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is characterized by impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Abusers of CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of CNS stimulants including QuilliChew ER , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 1 , 16 . 2 ) ] , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for QuilliChew ER use .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance Tolerance ( a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ’ s desired and / or undesired effects over time ) can occur during chronic therapy with CNS stimulants including QuilliChew ER .
Dependence Physical dependence ( a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist ) can occur in patients treated with CNS stimulants including QuilliChew ER .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
10 OVERDOSAGE Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
11 DESCRIPTION QuilliChew ER ( methylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release chewable tablets ) is available in three dosage strengths - 20 mg , 30 mg and 40 mg .
The dosage strengths are expressed in terms of methylphenidate hydrochloride equivalents ; however only 15 % of methylphenidate is present as methylphenidate hydrochloride salt .
The remaining 85 % is present as methylphenidate ionically - bound to the sulfonate groups of sodium polystyrene sulfonate particles .
QuilliChew ER contains approximately 30 % immediate - release and 70 % extended - release methylphenidate .
The QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets are cherry flavored .
Methylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The chemical name is methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate hydrochloride , and its structural formula is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Methylphenidate HCl Structure [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate HCl is a white , odorless crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
QuilliChew ER also contains the following inactive ingredients : aspartame [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] , cherry flavor , citric acid , crospovidone , D & C red # 30 ( for 30 mg strength ) , D & C red # 7 ( for 40 mg strength ) , guar gum , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl acetate , polyvinyl alcohol , povidone , silicon dioxide , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , talc , triacetin , xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and l - isomers .
The d - isomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - isomer .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increases the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single oral dose of 40 mg QuilliChew ER under fasting conditions , plasma methylphenidate reached maximal concentration ( Cmax ) at a median time of 5 hours after dosing .
Compared to an immediate - release formulation of methylphenidate chewable tablet ( 40 mg in 2 equal doses of 20 mg , 6 hours apart ) , methylphenidate mean peak concentration and exposure ( AUCinf ) was about 20 % and 11 % lower , respectively , after single dose administration of 40 mg QuilliChew ER ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : Mean Methylphenidate Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles After Administration of 40 mg QuilliChew ER or Methylphenidate Immediate - Release Chewable Tablets ( IRCT , 2 Equal Doses of 20 mg , 6 Hours Apart ) Under Fasted Conditions in Healthy Volunteers [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effect High - fat meal had no effect on the time to peak concentration , and increased C max and systemic exposure ( AUCinf ) of methylphenidate by about 20 % and 4 % , respectively , after a single dose administration of 40 mg QuilliChew ER .
Elimination Plasma methylphenidate concentrations decline monophasically following oral administration of QuilliChew ER .
The mean plasma terminal elimination half - life of methylphenidate was about 5 . 2 hours in healthy volunteers following a single 40 mg dose administration .
Metabolism In humans , methylphenidate is metabolized primarily via de - esterification to alpha - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( PPAA ) .
The metabolite has little or no pharmacologic activity .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite was PPAA , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Alcohol Effect At 40 % alcohol concentration , there was about 90 % release methylphenidate from QuilliChew ER 40 mg tablet within half an hour .
The results with the 40 mg chewable tablet strength are considered representative of the other available tablet strengths .
Specific Populations Sex There is insufficient experience with the use of QuilliChew ER to detect gender variations in pharmacokinetics .
Race There is insufficient experience with the use of QuilliChew ER to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Age There are no specific pediatric pharmacokinetic studies for QuilliChew ER .
However , the pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years old are not expected to be significantly different from adults following QuilliChew ER administration .
Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of QuilliChew ER in patients with renal insufficiency .
After oral administration of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , methylphenidate was extensively metabolized and approximately 80 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in the form of PPAA .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal insufficiency is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of QuilliChew ER .
Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of QuilliChew ER in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas , at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay or in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Methylphenidate was negative in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week Continuous Breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses of up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 8 - fold the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of QuilliChew ER was evaluated in a laboratory classroom study conducted in 90 pediatric subjects ( ages 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD .
Patients in the trial met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD .
The study began with a 6 - week open - label dose optimization period with an initial QuilliChew ER dose of 20 mg .
Patients were instructed to chew each dose once daily in the morning .
The dose could be titrated weekly in increments of 10 to 20 mg until a therapeutic dose or the maximum dose of 60 mg / day was reached .
Eighty - six of the 90 enrolled subjects then entered a 1 - week randomized , double - blind , parallel group treatment period with the individually optimized dose of QuilliChew ER or placebo .
The intent - to - treat ( ITT ) population consisted of 85 randomized subjects who received at least 1 dose of double - blind study drug and had at least 1 post - Baseline assessment of the primary efficacy variable .
At the end of the double - blind treatment period , the laboratory classroom raters and teachers evaluated the attention and behavior of the subjects , throughout the day using the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M - Flynn , and Pelham ( SKAMP ) rating scale .
The SKAMP rating scale is a validated 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
The SKAMP - Combined score , measured at 0 . 75 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 10 , 12 , and 13 hours post - dose during the laboratory classroom day at the end of the double - blind treatment period , was used to assess the primary and the key secondary efficacy parameters .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the average of treatment effects across all the time points as specified above during the classroom day .
The key secondary efficacy parameters were onset and duration of clinical effect .
QuilliChew ER was statistically significantly superior to placebo with respect to the primary endpoint ( Table 2 ) .
QuilliChew ER also showed improvement over placebo at 0 . 75 , 2 , 4 , and 8 hours post - dosing .
Efficacy results at each time point are summarized in Figure 3 .
Table 2 : Primary Efficacy Result ( ITT Population ) Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy measure : Average of Treatment Effect Across All Time Points Based on SKAMP - Combined Score Mean Pre - Dose Score on Classroom Day ( SD ) LS Mean ( SE ) for the Classroom day Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 Quillichew ER ( N = 42 ) 17 . 5 ( 11 . 6 ) 12 . 1 ( 1 . 4 ) - 7 . 0 ( - 10 . 9 , - 3 . 1 ) Placebo ( N - 43 ) 13 . 8 ( 10 . 0 ) 19 . 1 ( 1 . 4 ) N : number of patients ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval .
aLeast - Squares Mean Difference ( drug minus placebo ) .
Figure 3 : SKAMP - Combined Scores Over Time ( LS Mean ± SE ) by Treatment Group ( ITT Population ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ITT : intent - to - treat LS means from post - dose time - points were obtained from a repeated measures mixed model with terms for center , hour , treatment and treatment by hour interaction .
For the pre - dose time - point , arithmetic means and standard errors are displayed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied QuilliChew ER is supplied as extended - release chewable tablets in 20 mg , 30 mg and 40 mg strengths .
The 20 mg strength extended - release chewable tablet is available as a speckled , off - white , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 12 " on one side and functionally scored on the other side .
The 30 mg strength extended - release chewable tablet is available as a speckled , light pink color , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 13 " on one side and functionally scored on the other side .
The 40 mg strength extended - release chewable tablet is available as a speckled , dark pink to peach color , capsule - shaped coated tablet , debossed with " NP 14 " on one side and plain on the other side ( not scored ) .
The product is supplied in bottles of 100 .
QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets Package Configuration Tablet Strength ( mg ) NDC Print Bottles of 100 20 mg NDC - 24478 - 074 - 01 NP 12 Bottles of 100 30 mg NDC - 24478 - 075 - 01 NP 13 Bottles of 100 40 mg NDC - 24478 - 076 - 01 NP 14 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºF to 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted from 15ºC to 30ºC ( 59ºF to 86ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired QuilliChew ER by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix QuilliChew ER with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard QuilliChew ER in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients and their caregivers that QuilliChew ER is a federally controlled substance , and it can be abused and lead to dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients that they should not give QuilliChew ER to anyone else .
Advise patients to store QuilliChew ER in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired QuilliChew ER through a medicine take - back program if available [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Instructions Advise patients that QuilliChew ER should be taken by mouth once daily in the morning with or without food .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients , caregivers , and family members that there is a potential for serious cardiovascular risks including sudden death , myocardial infarction , and stroke with QuilliChew ER use .
Instruct patients to contact a health care provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Advise patients that QuilliChew ER can elevate blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients that QuilliChew ER , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without a prior history of psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients , caregivers , and family members of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct the patient to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes [ Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon ] • Instruct patients beginning treatment with QuilliChew ER about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking QuilliChew ER .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients , families , and caregivers that QuilliChew ER can cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Alcohol Effect Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets .
Consumption of alcohol while taking QuilliChew ER may result in a more rapid release of the dose of methylphenidate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Risks in Patients with Phenylketonuria ( PKU ) Advise patients with phenylketonuria that QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets contain phenylalanine , a component of aspartame [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
This product ’ s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . trispharma . com .
Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Tris Pharma , Inc . , Monmouth Junction , NJ 08852 LB8533 Rev . 01 06 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] MEDICATION GUIDE QuilliChew ER ® ( quil - ih ' CHOO ' ee - ahr ) ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) extended - release chewable tablets CII What is the most important information I should know about QuilliChew ER ?
QuilliChew ER is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep QuilliChew ER in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away QuilliChew ER may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your health care provider if you or your child have ( or have a family history of ) ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
The following have been reported with use of methylphenidate hydrochloride and other stimulant medicines .
1 .
Heart - related problems : • sudden death in patients who have heart problems or heart defects • stroke and heart attack in adults • increased blood pressure and heart rate Tell your health care provider if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your health care provider should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting QuilliChew ER .
Your health care provider should check your or your child ’ s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with QuilliChew ER .
Call your health care provider right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting while taking QuilliChew ER .
2 .
Mental ( Psychiatric ) problems : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , believing things that are not true , are suspicious ) or new manic symptoms Tell your health care provider about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your health care provider right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems while taking QuilliChew ER , especially seeing or hearing things that are not real , believing things that are not real , or are suspicious .
3 .
Circulation problems in fingers and toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon ] : • Fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • Fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your health care provider if you have or your child has numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes .
Call your health care provider right away if you have or your child has any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking QuilliChew ER .
What is QuilliChew ER ?
QuilliChew ER is a central nervous system stimulant prescription medicine .
QuilliChew ER is an extended - release chewable tablet .
It is used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) .
QuilliChew ER may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in people with ADHD .
It is not known if QuilliChew ER is safe and effective in children under 6 years of age .
Do not take QUILLICHEW ER if you or your child : • are allergic to methylphenidate hydrochloride , or any of the ingredients in QuilliChew ER .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in QuilliChew ER .
• are taking or have taken within the past 14 days a type of anti - depression medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
QUILLICHEW ER may not be right for you or your child .
Before starting QuilliChew ER tell your or your child ’ s health care provider about all health conditions ( or a family history of ) including : • heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression • circulation problems in fingers and toes • phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets contain phenylalanine as part of the artificial sweetener , aspartame .
The artificial sweetener may be harmful to people with PKU or who are allergic to phenylalanine .
• if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if QuilliChew ER will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your health care provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to ADHD medications during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to QuilliChew ER and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with QuilliChew ER , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visit https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / clinical - and - research - programs / pregnancyregistry / othermedications / .
• if you are breastfeeding or plan to breast feed .
QuilliChew ER passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take QuilliChew ER or breastfeed .
Tell your health care provider about all of the medicines that you or your child take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
QuilliChew ER and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted while taking QuilliChew ER .
Your health care provider will decide whether QuilliChew ER can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your health care provider if you or your child takes : • anti - depression medicines including MAOIs Know the medicines that you or your child takes .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your health care provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine while taking QuilliChew ER without talking to your health care provider first .
How should QuilliChew ER be taken ?
• Read the step - by - step instructions for using QuilliChew ER extended - release chewable tablets at the end of this Medication Guide .
• Take QuilliChew ER exactly as prescribed .
Your health care provider may adjust the dose , if needed , until it is right for you or your child .
During dose adjustment , you or your child may still have ADHD symptoms .
• Take QuilliChew ER 1 time each day in the morning .
QuilliChew ER is an extended - release chewable tablet that releases medicine into your body throughout the day .
• The 20 mg and 30 mg QuilliChew ER chewable tablets are scored ( bisected ) and can be cut in half if needed , for you to get the right dose .
QuilliChew ER 40 mg is not scored ( bisected ) and cannot be divided .
• QuilliChew ER can be taken with or without food .
• From time to time , your health care provider may stop QuilliChew ER treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• Your health care provider may do regular checks of the blood , heart , and blood pressure while taking QuilliChew ER .
• Children should have their height and weight checked often while taking QuilliChew ER .
QuilliChew ER treatment may be stopped if a problem is found during these check - ups .
• In case of poisoning call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 right away , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
• If a dose is missed , you or your child should talk to your health care provider about dosing .
What should I avoid while taking QuilliChew ER ?
• QuilliChew ER should not be taken with MAOI medicines .
Do not start taking QuilliChew ER if you stopped taking an MAOI in the last 14 days .
• Do not drink alcohol while taking QuilliChew ER .
This may cause a faster release of your methylphenidate dose .
What are the possible side effects of QuilliChew ER ?
QuilliChew ER may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about QuilliChew ER ? ”
for information on reported heart and mental problems .
Other serious side effects include : • painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) have occurred with methylphenidate .
If you or your child develop priapism seek medical help right away .
Because priapism can cause long lasting damage , it should be checked by a health care provider right away .
• slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children The most common side effects of QuilliChew ER include : • decreased appetite • indigestion • mood swings • trouble sleeping • stomach pain • fast heart beat • nausea • weight loss • increased blood pressure • vomiting • anxiety • dizziness • irritability These are not all the possible side effects of QuilliChew ER .
Call your health care provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store QUILLICHEW ER ?
• Store QuilliChew ER in a safe place at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep QuilliChew ER and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of QuilliChew ER Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use QuilliChew ER for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give QuilliChew ER to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or health care provider for information about QuilliChew ER that was written for health care professionals .
What are the ingredients in QuilliChew ER ?
Active Ingredient : methylphenidate Inactive Ingredients : aspartame , cherry flavor , citric acid , crospovidone , D & C red # 30 ( for 30 mg strength ) , D & C red # 7 ( for 40 mg strength ) , guar gum , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl acetate , polyvinyl alcohol , povidone , silicon dioxide , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , talc , triacetin , xanthan gum .
For more information , please contact Tris Pharma , Inc . at ( 732 ) 940 - 0358 or visit the website at www . QuilliChewER . com .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
This product ’ s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . trispharma . com .
Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Tris Pharma , Inc . , Monmouth Junction , NJ 08852 LB8533 Rev . 01 06 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24478 - 074 - 01 QUILLICHEW ER ( methylphenidate HCI ) extended - release chewable tablets CII 20 mg 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24478 - 075 - 01 QUILLICHEW ER ( methylphenidate HCI ) extended - release chewable tablets CII 30 mg 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 24478 - 076 - 01 QUILLICHEW ER ( methylphenidate HCI ) extended - release chewable tablets CII 40 mg 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
