DESCRIPTION Clemastine belongs to the benzhydryl ether group of antihistaminic compounds .
The chemical name is ( + ) - ( 2 R ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ ( R ) - p - Chloro - α - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ] - oxy ] ethyl ] - 1 - methylpyrrolidine fumarate ( 1 : 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C21H26C1NO . C4H4O4 M . W . 459 . 97 Each tablet for oral administration contains 2 . 68 mg of clemastine fumarate , USP .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , povidone , pregelatinized starch and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clemastine fumarate is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative side effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
The inherently long duration of antihistaminic effects of clemastine fumarate has been demonstrated in wheal and flare studies .
In normal human subjects who received histamine injections over a 24 - hour period , the antihistaminic activity of clemastine reached a peak at 5 to 7 hours , persisted for 10 to 12 hours and , in some cases , for as long as 24 hours .
Pharmacokinetic studies in man utilizing 3 H and 14 C labeled compound demonstrates that : clemastine is rapidly and nearly completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , peak plasma concentrations are attained in 2 to 4 hours , and urinary excretion is the major mode of elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP , 2 . 68 mg are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis such as sneezing , rhinorrhea , pruritus , and lacrimation .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP , 2 . 68 mg are also indicated for the relief of mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema .
It should be noted that clemastine fumarate is indicated for the dermatologic indications at the 2 . 68 mg dosage level only .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Usage in Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Usage in Lower Respiratory Disease Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract symptoms including asthma .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to clemastine fumarate or other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy ( see Drug Interactions section ) .
WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with : narrow angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , and bladder neck obstruction .
Usage in Children Safety and efficacy of clemastine fumarate have not been established in children under the age of 12 years .
Usage in Pregnancy Experience with this drug in pregnant women is inadequate to determine whether there exists a potential for harm to the developing fetus .
Usage with CNS Depressants Clemastine has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) .
Usage in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Usage in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS Clemastine fumarate should be used with caution in patients with : history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , and hypertension .
Drug Interactions MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient drowsiness , the most common adverse reaction associated with clemastine fumarate , occurs relatively frequently and may require discontinuation of therapy in some instances .
Antihistaminic Compounds It should be noted that the following reactions have occurred with one or more antihistamines and , therefore , should be kept in mind when prescribing drugs belonging to this class , including clemastine .
The most frequent adverse reactions are italicized .
• General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of the mouth , nose , and throat .
• Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
• Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
• Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesias , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions .
• GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
• GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
• Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
OVERDOSAGE Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in children .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms : dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously the conscious patient should be induced to vomit .
This is best done by having him drink a glass of water or milk after which he should be made to gag .
Precautions against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and children .
If vomiting is unsuccessful gastric lavage is indicated within 3 hours after ingestion and even later if large amounts of milk or cream were given beforehand .
Isotonic and 1 / 2 isotonic saline is the lavage solution of choice .
Saline cathartics , such as milk of magnesia , by osmosis draw water into the bowel and therefore , are valuable for their action in rapid dilution of bowel content .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2 . 68 mg The maximum recommended dosage is one tablet three times daily .
Many patients respond favorably to a single dose which may be repeated as required , but not to exceed three tablets daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP , 2 . 68 mg are white , round , scored tablets debossed with " 93 " and " 308 " .
Tablets are packaged in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 0093 - 0308 - 01 ) Store at 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . J 4 / 2022 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 0093 - 0308 - 01 Clemastine Fumarate Tablets , USP 2 . 68 mg Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
