WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue fosinopril sodium tablets as soon as possible .
• • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
See WARNINGS , Fetal TOXICITY DESCRIPTION Fosinopril sodium is the sodium salt of fosinopril , the ester prodrug of an angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor , fosinoprilat .
It contains a phosphinate group capable of specific binding to the active site of angiotensin - converting enzyme .
Fosinopril sodium is designated chemically as : L - proline , 4 - cyclohexyl - 1 - [ [ [ 2 - methyl - 1 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) propoxy ] ( 4 - phenylbutyl ) phosphinyl ] acetyl ] - , sodium salt , trans - .
Fosinopril sodium is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water ( 100 mg / mL ) , methanol , and ethanol and slightly soluble in hexane .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C30 H45NNaO7P M . W . 585 . 65 Fosinopril sodium , USP , is available for oral administration as 10 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg tablets .
Inactive ingredients include : crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and sodium stearyl fumarate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action In animals and humans , fosinopril sodium is hydrolyzed by esterases to the pharmacologically active form , fosinoprilat , a specific competitive inhibitor of angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In 647 hypertensive patients treated with fosinopril alone for an average of 29 weeks , mean increases in serum potassium of 0 . 1 mEq / L were observed .
Similar increases were observed among all patients treated with fosinopril , including those receiving concomitant diuretic therapy .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of fosinopril sodium remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which fosinopril sodium lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , fosinopril sodium has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although fosinopril sodium was antihypertensive in all races studied , black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to ACE inhibitor monotherapy than non - black patients .
In patients with heart failure , the beneficial effects of fosinopril sodium are thought to result primarily from suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ; inhibition of the angiotensin - converting enzyme produces decreases in both preload and afterload .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration , fosinopril ( the prodrug ) is absorbed slowly .
The absolute absorption of fosinopril averaged 36 % of an oral dose .
The primary site of absorption is the proximal small intestine ( duodenum / jejunum ) .
While the rate of absorption may be slowed by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract , the extent of absorption of fosinopril is essentially unaffected .
Fosinoprilat is highly protein - bound ( approximately 99 . 4 % ) , has a relatively small volume of distribution , and has negligible binding to cellular components in blood .
After single and multiple oral doses , plasma levels , areas under plasma concentration - time curves ( AUCs ) and peak concentrations ( Cmaxs ) are directly proportional to the dose of fosinopril .
Times to peak concentrations are independent of dose and are achieved in approximately 3 hours .
After an oral dose of radiolabeled fosinopril , 75 % of radioactivity in plasma was present as active fosinoprilat , 20 to 30 % as a glucuronide conjugate of fosinoprilat , and 1 to 5 % as a p - hydroxy metabolite of fosinoprilat .
Since fosinoprilat is not biotransformed after intravenous administration , fosinopril , not fosinoprilat , appears to be the precursor for the glucuronide and p - hydroxy metabolites .
In rats , the p - hydroxy metabolite of fosinoprilat is as potent an inhibitor of ACE as fosinoprilat ; the glucuronide conjugate is devoid of ACE inhibitory activity .
After intravenous administration , fosinoprilat was eliminated approximately equally by the liver and kidney .
After oral administration of radiolabeled fosinopril , approximately half of the absorbed dose is excreted in the urine and the remainder is excreted in the feces .
In two studies involving healthy subjects , the mean body clearance of intravenous fosinoprilat was between 26 and 39 mL / min .
In healthy subjects , the terminal elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of an intravenous dose of radiolabeled fosinoprilat is approximately 12 hours .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal and hepatic function , who received repeated doses of fosinopril , the effective t1 / 2 for accumulation of fosinoprilat averaged 11 . 5 hours .
In patients with heart failure , the effective t1 / 2 was 14 hours .
In patients with mild to severe renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance 10 to 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the clearance of fosinoprilat does not differ appreciably from normal , because of the large contribution of hepatobiliary elimination .
In patients with end - stage renal disease ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the total body clearance of fosinoprilat is approximately one - half of that in patients with normal renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Fosinopril is not well dialyzed .
Clearance of fosinoprilat by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis averages 2 % and 7 % , respectively , of urea clearances .
In patients with hepatic insufficiency ( alcoholic or biliary cirrhosis ) , the extent of hydrolysis of fosinopril is not appreciably reduced , although the rate of hydrolysis may be slowed ; the apparent total body clearance of fosinoprilat is approximately one - half of that in patients with normal hepatic function .
In elderly ( male ) subjects ( 65 to 74 years old ) with clinically normal renal and hepatic function , there appear to be no significant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters for fosinoprilat compared to those of younger subjects ( 20 to 35 years old ) .
In pediatric patients , ( N = 20 ) age 6 to 16 years , with glomerular filtration rate ≥ 25 mL / min , given a single dose of fosinopril ( 0 . 3 mg / kg given as solution ) , the mean AUC and Cmax values of fosinoprilat ( the active form of fosinopril ) were similar to those seen in healthy adults receiving 20 mg ( about 0 . 3 mg / kg for a 70 kg adult ) of fosinopril as a solution .
The terminal elimination half - life of fosinoprilat in pediatric patients was 11 to 13 hours , also similar to that observed in adults .
Fosinoprilat was found to cross the placenta of pregnant animals .
Studies in animals indicate that fosinopril and fosinoprilat do not cross the blood - brain barrier .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Serum ACE activity was inhibited by ≥ 90 % at 2 to 12 hours after single doses of 10 to 40 mg of fosinopril .
At 24 hours , serum ACE activity remained suppressed by 85 % , 93 % , and 93 % in the 10 , 20 , and 40 mg dose groups , respectively .
Hypertension Adult Administration of fosinopril sodium tablets to patients with mild to moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted ( see WARNINGS ) .
Use of fosinopril sodium in combination with thiazide diuretics gives a blood pressure - lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone .
Following oral administration of single doses of 10 to 40 mg , fosinopril sodium lowered blood pressure within 1 hour , with peak reductions achieved 2 to 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
Following 4 weeks of monotherapy in placebo - controlled trials in patients with mild to moderate hypertension , once daily doses of 20 to 80 mg lowered supine or seated systolic and diastolic blood pressures 24 hours after dosing by an average of 8 to 9 / 6 to 7 mmHg more than placebo .
The trough effect was about 50 to 60 % of the peak diastolic response and about 80 % of the peak systolic response .
In most trials , the antihypertensive effect of fosinopril sodium increased during the first several weeks of repeated measurements .
The antihypertensive effect of fosinopril sodium has been shown to continue during long - term therapy for at least 2 years .
Abrupt withdrawal of fosinopril sodium has not resulted in a rapid increase in blood pressure .
Limited experience in controlled and uncontrolled trials combining fosinopril with a calcium channel blocker or a loop diuretic has indicated no unusual drug - drug interactions .
Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because both drugs lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
ACE inhibitors are generally less effective in blacks than in non - blacks .
The effectiveness of fosinopril sodium was not influenced by age , sex , or weight .
In hemodynamic studies in hypertensive patients , after 3 months of therapy , responses ( changes in BP , heart rate , cardiac index , and PVR ) to various stimuli ( e . g . , isometric exercise , 45 ° head - up tilt , and mental challenge ) were unchanged compared to baseline , suggesting that fosinopril sodium does not affect the activity of the sympathetic nervous system .
Reduction in systemic blood pressure appears to have been mediated by a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance without reflex cardiac effects .
Similarly , renal , splanchnic , cerebral , and skeletal muscle blood flow were unchanged compared to baseline , as was glomerular filtration rate .
Pediatric Reduction of blood pressure with low ( 0 . 1 mg / kg ) , medium ( 0 . 3 mg / kg ) and high ( 0 . 6 mg / kg ) target doses of once - daily fosinopril was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind study of 252 pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age with hypertension or high - normal blood pressure .
Fosinopril doses in the medium and high dose groups were titrated to target doses after 1 week and the total duration of treatment was 4 weeks .
The maximum dose studied was 40 mg once daily .
At the end of 4 weeks of treatment , the mean reductions from baseline in trough systolic blood pressure were similar in all three dose groups .
Withdrawal of fosinopril treatment resulted in an increase in blood pressure towards baseline over a 2 week period .
Fosinopril was generally well tolerated .
Heart Failure In a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial , 179 patients with heart failure , all receiving diuretics and some receiving digoxin , were administered single doses of 10 , 20 , or 40 mg of fosinopril sodium or placebo .
Doses of 20 and 40 mg of fosinopril sodium resulted in acute decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) and mean arterial blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance ( afterload ) .
One hundred fifty - five of these patients were re - randomized to once daily therapy with fosinopril sodium ( 10 , 20 , or 40 mg ) for an additional 10 weeks .
Hemodynamic measurements made 24 hours after dosing showed ( relative to baseline ) continued reduction in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , mean arterial blood pressure , right atrial pressure and an increase in cardiac index and stroke volume for the 20 and 40 mg dose groups .
No tachyphylaxis was seen .
Fosinopril sodium was studied in 3 double - blind , placebo - controlled , 12 to 24 week trials including a total of 734 patients with heart failure , with fosinopril sodium doses from 10 to 40 mg daily .
Concomitant therapy in 2 of these 3 trials included diuretics and digitalis ; in the third trial patients were receiving only diuretics .
All 3 trials showed statistically significant benefits of fosinopril sodium therapy , compared to placebo , in one or more of the following : exercise tolerance ( 1 study ) , symptoms of dyspnea , orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea ( 2 studies ) , NYHA classification ( 2 studies ) , hospitalization for heart failure ( 2 studies ) , study withdrawals for worsening heart failure ( 2 studies ) , and / or need for supplemental diuretics ( 2 studies ) .
Favorable effects were maintained for up to 2 years .
Effects of fosinopril sodium on long - term mortality in heart failure have not been evaluated .
The once daily dosage for the treatment of congestive heart failure was the only dosage regimen used during clinical trial development and was determined by the measurement of hemodynamic responses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fosinopril sodium tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
They may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
Fosinopril sodium tablets are indicated in the management of heart failure as adjunctive therapy when added to conventional therapy including diuretics with or without digitalis ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In using fosinopril sodium , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen - vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to show that fosinopril sodium does not have a similar risk ( see WARNINGS ) .
In considering use of fosinopril sodium , it should be noted that in controlled trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non - blacks .
In addition , ACE inhibitors ( for which adequate data are available ) cause a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients ( see WARNINGS , Head and Neck Angioedema and Intestinal Angioedema ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fosinopril sodium tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or to any other angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor ( e . g . , a patient who has experienced angioedema with any other ACE inhibitor therapy ) .
Do not co - administer fosinopril sodium tablets with aliskiren in patients with diabetes .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including fosinopril sodium ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema involving the extremities , face , lips , mucous membranes , tongue , glottis , or larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
If angioedema involves the tongue , glottis , or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , lips , mucous membranes , tongue , glottis , or extremities occurs , treatment with fosinopril sodium should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx , likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 mL to 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . temsirolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension Fosinopril sodium can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Like other ACE inhibitors , fosinopril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume - and / or salt - depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with fosinopril sodium .
In patients with heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria or azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , fosinopril sodium therapy should be started under close medical supervision ; they should be followed closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of fosinopril or diuretic is increased .
Consideration should be given to reducing the diuretic dose in patients with normal or low blood pressure who have been treated vigorously with diuretics or who are hyponatremic .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position , and , if necessary , treated with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Fosinopril sodium treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients , but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially if they also have a collagen - vascular disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of fosinopril are insufficient to show that fosinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue fosinopril as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue fosinopril , unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to fosinopril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
No teratogenic effects of fosinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits .
On a mg / kg basis , the doses used were up to 180 times ( in rats ) and one time ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
When fosinopril was given to pregnant rats at doses about 80 to 250 times ( on a mg / kg basis ) the maximum recommended human dose , three similar orofacial malformations and one fetus with situs inversus were observed among the offspring .
No teratogenic effects of fosinopril were seen in studies in pregnant rabbits at doses up to 25 times ( on a mg / kg basis ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
PRECAUTIONS General Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , including fosinopril sodium tablets , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and / or death .
In hypertensive patients with renal artery stenosis in a solitary kidney or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor suggests that these increases are usually reversible upon discontinuation of ACE inhibitor and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent preexisting renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when fosinopril sodium has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with preexisting renal impairment .
Dosage reduction of fosinopril sodium and / or discontinuation of the diuretic may be required .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension or heart failure should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Impaired renal function decreases total clearance of fosinoprilat and approximately doubles AUC .
In general , no adjustment of dosing is needed .
However , patients with heart failure and severely reduced renal function may be more sensitive to the hemodynamic effects ( e . g . , hypotension ) of ACE inhibition ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Hyperkalemia In clinical trials , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 10 % above the upper limit of normal ) has occurred in approximately 2 . 6 % of hypertensive patients receiving fosinopril sodium .
In most cases , these were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
In clinical trials , 0 . 1 % of patients ( 2 patients ) were discontinued from therapy due to an elevated serum potassium .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and other drugs that raise serum potassium levels .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Impaired Liver Function Since fosinopril is primarily metabolized by hepatic and gut wall esterases to its active moiety , fosinoprilat , patients with impaired liver function could develop elevated plasma levels of unchanged fosinopril .
In a study in patients with alcoholic or biliary cirrhosis , the extent of hydrolysis was unaffected , although the rate was slowed .
In these patients , the apparent total body clearance of fosinoprilat was decreased and the plasma AUC approximately doubled .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , fosinopril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Hemodialysis Recent clinical observations have shown an association of hypersensitivity - like ( anaphylactoid ) reactions during hemodialysis with high - flux dialysis membranes ( e . g . , AN69 ) in patients receiving ACE inhibitors as medication .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of medication ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ) .
Information for Patients Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , especially following the first dose .
Patients should be advised to immediately report to their physician any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( e . g . , swelling of face , eyes , lips , tongue , larynx , mucous membranes , and extremities ; difficulty in swallowing or breathing ; hoarseness ) and to discontinue therapy ( see WARNINGS , Head and Neck Angioedema and Intestinal Angioedema and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Symptomatic Hypotension Patients should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and it should be reported to a physician .
Patients should be told that if syncope occurs , fosinopril sodium should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Hyperkalemia Patients should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the physician .
Neutropenia Patients should be told to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Pregnancy Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to ACE inhibitors .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Ask patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Diuretics Patients on diuretics , especially those with intravascular volume depletion , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with fosinopril sodium tablets .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with fosinopril sodium can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with fosinopril sodium .
If this is not possible , the starting dose should be reduced and the patient should be observed closely for several hours following an initial dose and until blood pressure has stabilized ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Agents increasing serum potassium Coadministration of fosinopril with potassium sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , potassium - containing salt substitutes or other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients .
Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution , and frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased .
Antacids In a clinical pharmacology study , coadministration of an antacid ( aluminum hydroxide , magnesium hydroxide , and simethicone ) with fosinopril reduced serum levels and urinary excretion of fosinoprilat as compared with fosinopril administrated alone , suggesting that antacids may impair absorption of fosinopril .
Therefore , if concomitant administration of these agents is indicated , dosing should be separated by 2 hours .
Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including fosinopril sodium .
Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents including selective cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibitors ( COX - 2 inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including fosinopril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving quinapril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including fosinopril may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Agents that inhibit mTOR Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . temsirolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on fosinopril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with fosinopril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with fosinopril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
Other Neither fosinopril sodium nor its metabolites have been found to interact with food .
In separate single or multiple dose pharmacokinetic interaction studies with chlorthalidone , nifedipine , propranolol , hydrochlorothiazide , cimetidine , metoclopramide , propantheline , digoxin , and warfarin , the bioavailability of fosinoprilat was not altered by coadministration of fosinopril with any one of these drugs .
In a study with concomitant administration of aspirin and fosinopril sodium , the bioavailability of unbound fosinoprilat was not altered .
In a pharmacokinetic interaction study with warfarin , bioavailability parameters , the degree of protein binding , and the anticoagulant effect ( measured by prothrombin time ) of warfarin were not significantly changed .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interaction Fosinopril may cause a false low measurement of serum digoxin levels with the Digi - Tab ® RIA Kit for Digoxin .
Other kits , such as the Coat - A - Count ® RIA Kit , may be used .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of a carcinogenic effect was found when fosinopril was given in the diet to mice and rats for up to 24 months at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day .
On a body weight basis , the highest dose in mice and rats is about 250 times the maximum human dose of 80 mg , assuming a 50 kg subject .
On a body surface area basis , in mice , this dose is 20 times the maximum human dose ; in rats , this dose is 40 times the maximum human dose .
Male rats given the highest dose level had a slightly higher incidence of mesentery / omentum lipomas .
Neither fosinopril nor the active fosinoprilat was mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test , the mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , or a mitotic gene conversion assay .
Fosinopril was also not genotoxic in a mouse micronucleus test in vivo and a mouse bone marrow cytogenetic assay in vivo .
In the Chinese hamster ovary cell cytogenetic assay , fosinopril increased the frequency of chromosomal aberrations when tested without metabolic activation at a concentration that was toxic to the cells .
However , there was no increase in chromosomal aberrations at lower drug concentrations without metabolic activation or at any concentration with metabolic activation .
There were no adverse reproductive effects in male and female rats treated with 15 or 60 mg / kg daily .
On a body weight basis , the high dose of 60 mg / kg is about 38 times the maximum recommended human dose .
On a body surface area basis , this dose is 6 times the maximum recommended human dose .
There was no effect on pairing time prior to mating in rats until a daily dose of 240 mg / kg , a toxic dose , was given ; at this dose , a slight increase in pairing time was observed .
On a body weight basis , this dose is 150 times the maximum recommended human dose .
On a body surface area basis , this dose is 24 times the maximum recommended human dose .
Nursing Mothers Ingestion of 20 mg daily for 3 days resulted in detectable levels of fosinoprilat in breast milk .
Do not administer fosinopril sodium tablets to nursing mothers .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of fosinopril sodium did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to fosinopril : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Removal of fosinopril , which crosses the placenta , from the neonatal circulation is not significantly accelerated by these means .
The antihypertensive effects of fosinopril have been evaluated in a double - blind study in pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Hypertension ) .
The pharmacokinetics of fosinopril have been evaluated in pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) .
Fosinopril was generally well tolerated and adverse effects were similar to those described in adults ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Pediatric Patients ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Fosinopril sodium tablets have been evaluated for safety in more than 2100 individuals in hypertension and heart failure trials , including approximately 530 patients treated for a year or more .
Generally adverse events were mild and transient , and their frequency was not prominently related to dose within the recommended daily dosage range .
Hypertension In placebo - controlled clinical trials ( 688 fosinopril sodium - treated patients ) , the usual duration of therapy was 2 to 3 months .
Discontinuations due to any clinical or laboratory adverse event were 4 . 1 % and 1 . 1 % in fosinopril sodium - treated and placebo - treated patients , respectively .
The most frequent reasons ( 0 . 4 to 0 . 9 % ) were headache , elevated transaminases , fatigue , cough ( see PRECAUTIONS , General , Cough ) , diarrhea , and nausea and vomiting .
During clinical trials with any fosinopril sodium regimen , the incidence of adverse events in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years old ) was similar to that seen in younger patients .
Clinical adverse events probably or possibly related or of uncertain relationship to therapy , occurring in at least 1 % of patients treated with fosinopril sodium alone and at least as frequent on fosinopril sodium as on placebo in placebo - controlled clinical trials are shown in the table below .
Clinical Adverse Events in Placebo - Controlled Trials ( Hypertension ) Fosinopril Sodium ( N = 688 ) Incidence ( Discontinuation ) Placebo ( N = 184 ) Incidence ( Discontinuation ) Cough 2 . 2 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 . 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Dizziness 1 . 6 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 0 ( 0 . 0 ) Nausea / Vomiting 1 . 2 ( 0 . 4 ) 0 . 5 ( 0 . 0 ) The following events were also seen at > 1 % on fosinopril sodium but occurred in the placebo group at a greater rate : headache , diarrhea , fatigue , and sexual dysfunction .
Other clinical events probably or possibly related , or of uncertain relationship to therapy occurring in 0 . 2 to 1 . 0 % of patients ( except as noted ) treated with fosinopril sodium in controlled or uncontrolled clinical trials ( N = 1479 ) and less frequent , clinically significant events include ( listed by body system ) : General : Chest pain , edema , weakness , excessive sweating .
Cardiovascular : Angina / myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular accident , hypertensive crisis , rhythm disturbances , palpitations , hypotension , syncope , flushing , claudication .
Orthostatic hypotension occurred in 1 . 4 % of patients treated with fosinopril monotherapy .
Hypotension or orthostatic hypotension was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 0 . 1 % of patients .
Dermatologic : Urticaria , rash , photosensitivity , pruritus .
Endocrine / Metabolic : Gout , decreased libido .
Gastrointestinal : Pancreatitis , hepatitis , dysphagia , abdominal distention , abdominal pain , flatulence , constipation , heartburn , appetite / weight change , dry mouth .
Hematologic : Lymphadenopathy .
Immunologic : Angioedema ( see WARNINGS , Head and Neck Angioedema and Intestinal Angioedema ) .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia / muscle cramp .
Nervous / Psychiatric : Memory disturbance , tremor , confusion , mood change , paresthesia , sleep disturbance , drowsiness , vertigo .
Respiratory : Bronchospasm , pharyngitis , sinusitis / rhinitis , laryngitis / hoarseness , epistaxis .
A symptom - complex of cough , bronchospasm , and eosinophilia has been observed in two patients treated with fosinopril .
Special Senses : Tinnitus , vision disturbance , taste disturbance , eye irritation .
Urogenital : Renal insufficiency , urinary frequency .
Heart Failure In placebo - controlled clinical trials ( 361 fosinopril sodium - treated patients ) , the usual duration of therapy was 3 to 6 months .
Discontinuations due to any clinical or laboratory adverse event , except for heart failure , were 8 . 0 % and 7 . 5 % in fosinopril sodium - treated and placebo - treated patients , respectively .
The most frequent reason for discontinuation of fosinopril sodium was angina pectoris ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Significant hypotension after the first dose of fosinopril sodium occurred in 14 / 590 ( 2 . 4 % ) of patients ; 5 / 590 ( 0 . 8 % ) patients discontinued due to first dose hypotension .
Clinical adverse events probably or possibly related or of uncertain relationship to therapy , occurring in at least 1 % of patients treated with fosinopril sodium and at least as common as the placebo group , in placebo - controlled trials are shown in the table below .
Clinical Adverse Events in Placebo - Controlled Trials ( Heart Failure ) Fosinopril Sodium ( N = 361 ) Incidence ( Discontinuation ) Placebo ( N = 373 ) Incidence ( Discontinuation ) Dizziness 11 . 9 ( 0 . 6 ) 5 . 4 ( 0 . 3 ) Cough 9 . 7 ( 0 . 8 ) 5 . 1 ( 0 . 0 ) Hypotension 4 . 4 ( 0 . 8 ) 0 . 8 ( 0 . 0 ) Musculoskeletal Pain 3 . 3 ( 0 . 0 ) 2 . 7 ( 0 . 0 ) Nausea / Vomiting 2 . 2 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 6 ( 0 . 3 ) Diarrhea 2 . 2 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 0 ) Chest Pain ( non - cardiac ) 2 . 2 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 . 6 ( 0 . 0 ) Upper Respiratory Infection 2 . 2 ( 0 . 0 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 0 ) Orthostatic Hypotension 1 . 9 ( 0 . 0 ) 0 . 8 ( 0 . 0 ) Subjective Cardiac Rhythm Disturbance 1 . 4 ( 0 . 6 ) 0 . 8 ( 0 . 3 ) Weakness 1 . 4 ( 0 . 3 ) 0 . 5 ( 0 . 0 ) The following events also occurred at a rate of 1 % or more on fosinopril sodium tablets but occurred on placebo more often : fatigue , dyspnea , headache , rash , abdominal pain , muscle cramp , angina pectoris , edema , and insomnia .
The incidence of adverse events in the elderly ( ≥ 65 years old ) was similar to that seen in younger patients .
Other clinical events probably or possibly related , or of uncertain relationship to therapy occurring in 0 . 4 to 1 . 0 % of patients ( except as noted ) treated with fosinopril sodium in controlled clinical trials ( N = 516 ) and less frequent , clinically significant events include ( listed by body system ) : General : Fever , influenza , weight gain , hyperhidrosis , sensation of cold , fall , pain .
Cardiovascular : Sudden death , cardiorespiratory arrest , shock ( 0 . 2 % ) , atrial rhythm disturbance , cardiac rhythm disturbances , non - anginal chest pain , edema lower extremity , hypertension , syncope , conduction disorder , bradycardia , tachycardia .
Dermatologic : Pruritus .
Endocrine / Metabolic : Gout , sexual dysfunction .
Gastrointestinal : Hepatomegaly , abdominal distention , decreased appetite , dry mouth , constipation , flatulence .
Immunologic : Angioedema ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle ache , swelling of an extremity , weakness of an extremity .
Nervous / Psychiatric : Cerebral infarction , TIA , depression , numbness , paresthesia , vertigo , behavior change , tremor .
Respiratory : Abnormal vocalization , rhinitis , sinus abnormality , tracheobronchitis , abnormal breathing , pleuritic chest pain .
Special Senses : Vision disturbance , taste disturbance .
Urogenital : Abnormal urination , kidney pain .
Potential Adverse Effects Reported With ACE Inhibitors Body as a whole : Anaphylactoid reactions ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions and PRECAUTIONS , Hemodialysis ) .
Other medically important adverse effects reported with ACE inhibitors include : Cardiac arrest ; eosinophilic pneumonitis ; neutropenia / agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , anemia ( including hemolytic and aplastic ) , thrombocytopenia ; acute renal failure ; hepatic failure , jaundice ( hepatocellular or cholestatic ) ; symptomatic hyponatremia ; bullous pemphigus , exfoliative dermatitis ; a syndrome which may include : arthralgia / arthritis , vasculitis , serositis , myalgia , fever , rash or other dermatologic manifestations , a positive ANA , leukocytosis , eosinophilia , or an elevated ESR .
Laboratory Test Abnormalities Serum Electrolytes Hyperkalemia , ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; hyponatremia , ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Diuretics ) .
BUN / Serum Creatinine Elevations , usually transient and minor , of BUN or serum creatinine have been observed .
In placebo - controlled clinical trials , there were no significant differences in the number of patients experiencing increases in serum creatinine ( outside the normal range or 1 . 33 times the pre - treatment value ) between the fosinopril and placebo treatment groups .
Rapid reduction of longstanding or markedly elevated blood pressure by any antihypertensive therapy can result in decreases in the glomerular filtration rate , and in turn , lead to increases in BUN or serum creatinine ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Hematology In controlled trials , a mean hemoglobin decrease of 0 . 1 g / dL was observed in fosinopril - treated patients .
In individual patients decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit were usually transient , small , and not associated with symptoms .
No patient was discontinued from therapy due to the development of anemia .
Other : Neutropenia ( see WARNINGS ) , leukopenia and eosinophilia .
Liver Function Tests Elevations of transaminases , LDH , alkaline phosphatase , and serum bilirubin have been reported .
Fosinopril therapy was discontinued because of serum transaminase elevations in 0 . 7 % of patients .
In the majority of cases , the abnormalities were either present at baseline or were associated with other etiologic factors .
In those cases which were possibly related to fosinopril therapy , the elevations were generally mild and transient and resolved after discontinuation of therapy .
Pediatric Patients The adverse experience profile for pediatric patients is similar to that seen in adult patients with hypertension .
The long - term effects of fosinopril sodium on growth and development have not been studied .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of fosinopril at 2600 mg / kg in rats were associated with significant lethality .
Human overdoses of fosinopril have not been reported , but the most common manifestation of human fosinopril overdosage is likely to be hypotension .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of fosinoprilat and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of fosinopril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of fosinopril and its metabolites .
Fosinoprilat is poorly removed from the body by both hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of fosinopril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of fosinopril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat fosinopril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
No adverse clinical events were reported in 23 pediatric patients , age 6 months to 6 years , given a single 0 . 3 mg / kg oral dose of fosinopril .
There is a published report of a 20 - month - old female , weighing 12 kg , who ingested approximately 200 mg fosinopril sodium .
After receiving gastric lavage and activated charcoal within 1 hour of the ingestion , she made an uneventful recovery .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Adults The recommended initial dose of fosinopril sodium tablets USP is 10 mg once a day , both as monotherapy and when the drug is added to a diuretic .
Dosage should then be adjusted according to blood pressure response at peak ( 2 to 6 hours ) and trough ( about 24 hours after dosing ) blood levels .
The usual dosage range needed to maintain a response at trough is 20 to 40 mg but some patients appear to have a further response to 80 mg .
In some patients treated with once daily dosing , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval .
If trough response is inadequate , dividing the daily dose should be considered .
If blood pressure is not adequately controlled with fosinopril sodium tablets USP alone , a diuretic may be added .
Concomitant administration of fosinopril sodium tablets USP with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassium - sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of fosinopril sodium tablets USP .
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued 2 to 3 days prior to beginning therapy with fosinopril sodium tablets USP ( see WARNINGS ) .
Then , if blood pressure is not controlled with fosinopril sodium tablets USP alone , diuretic therapy should be resumed .
If diuretic therapy cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 10 mg of fosinopril sodium tablets USP should be used with careful medical supervision for several hours and until blood pressure has stabilized ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ) .
Since concomitant administration of fosinopril sodium tablets USP with potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes or potassium - sparing diuretics may lead to increases in serum potassium , they should be used with caution ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatrics In children , doses of fosinopril sodium tablets between 0 . 1 and 0 . 6 mg / kg have been studied and shown to reduce blood pressure to a similar extent ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects ) .
Based on this , the recommended dose of fosinopril sodium tablets USP in children weighing more than 50 kg is 5 to 10 mg once per day as monotherapy .
An appropriate dosage strength is not available for children weighing less than 50 kg .
Heart Failure Digitalis is not required for fosinopril sodium tablets USP to manifest improvements in exercise tolerance and symptoms .
Most placebo - controlled clinical trial experience has been with both digitalis and diuretics present as background therapy .
The usual starting dose of fosinopril sodium tablets USP should be 10 mg once daily .
Following the initial dose of fosinopril sodium tablets USP , the patient should be observed under medical supervision for at least 2 hours for the presence of hypotension or orthostasis , and if present , until blood pressure stabilizes .
An initial dose of 5 mg is preferred in heart failure patients with moderate to severe renal failure or those who have been vigorously diuresed .
Dosage should be increased , over a several week period , to a dose that is maximal and tolerated but not exceeding 40 mg once daily .
The usual effective dosage range is 20 to 40 mg once daily .
The appearance of hypotension , orthostasis , or azotemia early in dose titration should not preclude further careful dose titration .
Consideration should be given to reducing the dose of concomitant diuretic .
For Hypertensive or Heart Failure Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function , the total body clearance of fosinoprilat is approximately 50 % slower than in patients with normal renal function .
Since hepatobiliary elimination partially compensates for diminished renal elimination , the total body clearance of fosinoprilat does not differ appreciably with any degree of renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearances < 80 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , including end - stage renal failure ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
This relative constancy of body clearance of active fosinoprilat , resulting from the dual route of elimination , permits use of the usual dose in patients with any degree of renal impairment ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure and PRECAUTIONS , Hemodialysis ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4743 NDC : 50090 - 4743 - 0 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 4743 - 1 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture by keeping bottle tightly closed .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
You may report side effects to Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Cranbury , NJ 08512 , USA Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Revised : 06 / 2017 17416 - 01 fosinopril sodium [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
