1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AGRYLIN is indicated for the treatment of patients with thrombocythemia , secondary to myeloproliferative neoplasms , to reduce the elevated platelet count and the risk of thrombosis and to ameliorate associated symptoms including thrombo - hemorrhagic events .
AGRYLIN is a platelet reducing agent indicated for the treatment of thrombocythemia , secondary to myeloproliferative neoplasms , to reduce the elevated platelet count and the risk of thrombosis and to ameliorate associated symptoms including thrombo - hemorrhagic events .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The starting dose for adults is 0 . 5 mg four times a day or 1 mg twice a day .
( 2 . 1 ) • The starting dose for pediatric patients is 0 . 5 mg per day .
( 2 . 1 ) • Maintain the starting dose for at least one week and then titrate to maintain target platelet counts .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not exceed a dose increment of 0 . 5 mg / day in any one week .
Do not exceed 10 mg / day or 2 . 5 mg in a single dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • Moderate hepatic impairment : Start with 0 . 5 mg per day .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Starting Dosage Adults : The recommended starting dosage of AGRYLIN is 0 . 5 mg four times daily or 1 mg twice daily .
Pediatric Patients : The recommended starting dosage of AGRYLIN is 0 . 5 mg daily .
2 . 2 Dose Titration Based Upon Platelet Response Continue the starting dose for at least one week and then titrate to reduce and maintain the platelet count below 600 , 000 / µL , and ideally between 150 , 000 / µL and 400 , 000 / µL .
The dose increment should not exceed 0 . 5 mg / day in any one week .
Dosage should not exceed 10 mg / day or 2 . 5 mg in a single dose .
Most patients will experience an adequate response at a dose of 1 . 5 to 3 . 0 mg / day .
Monitor platelet counts weekly during titration then monthly or as necessary .
2 . 3 Dose Modifications for Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh score 7 - 9 ) start AGRYLIN therapy at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / day and monitor frequently for cardiovascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with moderate hepatic impairment who have tolerated AGRYLIN therapy for one week may have their dose increased .
The dose increase increment should not exceed 0 . 5 mg / day in any one week .
Avoid use of AGRYLIN in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
2 . 4 Clinical Monitoring AGRYLIN therapy requires clinical monitoring , including complete blood counts , assessment of hepatic and renal function , and electrolytes .
To prevent the occurrence of thrombocytopenia , monitor platelet counts every two days during the first week of treatment and at least weekly thereafter until the maintenance dosage is reached .
Typically , platelet counts begin to respond within 7 to 14 days at the proper dosage .
In the clinical trials , the time to complete response , defined as platelet count ≤ 600 , 000 / µL , ranged from 4 to 12 weeks .
In the event of dosage interruption or treatment withdrawal , the rebound in platelet count is variable , but platelet counts typically will start to rise within 4 days and return to baseline levels in one to two weeks , possibly rebounding above baseline values .
Monitor platelet counts frequently .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : White , opaque capsule , imprinted with " [ MULTIMEDIA ] 063 " in black ink .
Each capsule contains 0 . 5 mg anagrelide equivalent to 0 . 61 mg anagrelide hydrochloride USP .
Capsules : 0 . 5 mg .
( 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiovascular Toxicity : QT prolongation and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with AGRYLIN .
Obtain a pre - treatment cardiovascular examination including an ECG in all patients .
Monitor patients for cardiovascular effects .
( 5 . 1 ) • Pulmonary Hypertension : Assess underlying cardiopulmonary disease prior to initiating therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Bleeding Risk : Monitor patients for bleeding , including those receiving concomitant therapy with other drugs known to cause bleeding .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Toxicity Torsades de pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with AGRYLIN .
Obtain a pre - treatment cardiovascular examination including an ECG in all patients .
During treatment with AGRYLIN monitor patients for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary .
AGRYLIN increases the QTc interval of the electrocardiogram and increases the heart rate in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Do not use AGRYLIN in patients with known risk factors for QT interval prolongation , such as congenital long QT syndrome , a known history of acquired QTc prolongation , medicinal products that can prolong QTc interval and hypokalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatic impairment increases anagrelide exposure and could increase the risk of QTc prolongation .
Monitor patients with hepatic impairment for QTc prolongation and other cardiovascular adverse reactions .
The potential risks and benefits of AGRYLIN therapy in a patient with mild and moderate hepatic impairment should be assessed before treatment is commenced .
Reduce AGRYLIN dose in patients with moderate hepatic impairment .
Avoid use of AGRYLIN in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
In patients with heart failure , bradyarrhythmias , or electrolyte abnormalities , consider periodic monitoring with electrocardiograms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
AGRYLIN is a phosphodiesterase 3 ( PDE3 ) inhibitor and may cause vasodilation , tachycardia , palpitations , and congestive heart failure .
Other drugs that inhibit PDE3 have caused decreased survival when compared with placebo in patients with Class III - IV congestive heart failure [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
In patients with cardiac disease , use AGRYLIN only when the benefits outweigh the risks .
5 . 2 Pulmonary Hypertension Cases of pulmonary hypertension have been reported in patients treated with AGRYLIN .
Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of underlying cardiopulmonary disease prior to initiating and during AGRYLIN therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Bleeding Risk Use of concomitant AGRYLIN and aspirin increased major hemorrhagic events in a postmarketing study .
Assess the potential risks and benefits for concomitant use of AGRYLIN with aspirin , since bleeding risks may be increased .
Monitor patients for bleeding , including those receiving concomitant therapy with other drugs known to cause bleeding ( e . g . , anticoagulants , PDE3 inhibitors , NSAIDs , antiplatelet agents , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Pulmonary Toxicity Interstitial lung diseases ( including allergic alveolitis , eosinophilic pneumonia and interstitial pneumonitis ) have been reported to be associated with the use of AGRYLIN in post - marketing reports .
Most cases presented with progressive dyspnea with lung infiltrations .
The time of onset ranged from 1 week to several years after initiating AGRYLIN .
If suspected , discontinue AGRYLIN and evaluate .
Symptoms may improve after discontinuation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Cardiovascular Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Pulmonary Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Bleeding Risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pulmonary Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) are headache , palpitations , diarrhea , asthenia , edema , nausea , abdominal pain , dizziness , pain , dyspnea , cough , flatulence , vomiting , fever , peripheral edema , rash , chest pain , anorexia , tachycardia , malaise , paresthesia , back pain , pruritus , and dyspepsia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Clinical Studies in Adult Patients In three single - arm clinical studies , 942 patients [ see Clinical Trials ( 14 ) ] diagnosed with myeloproliferative neoplasms of varying etiology ( ET : 551 ; PV : 117 ; OMPN : 274 ) were exposed to AGRYLIN with a mean duration of approximately 65 weeks .
Serious adverse reactions reported in these patients included the following : congestive heart failure , myocardial infarction , cardiomyopathy , cardiomegaly , complete heart block , atrial fibrillation , cerebrovascular accident , pericardial effusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , pleural effusion , pulmonary infiltrates , pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary hypertension , and pancreatitis .
Of the 942 patients treated with AGRYLIN , 161 ( 17 % ) were discontinued from the study because of adverse reactions or abnormal laboratory test results .
The most common adverse reactions resulting in treatment discontinuation were headache , diarrhea , edema , palpitations , and abdominal pain .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions to AGRYLIN ( in 5 % or greater of 942 patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms ) in clinical trials were listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Studies of AGRYLIN in at least 5 % of PatientsAdverse Reactions AGRYLIN ( N = 942 ) ( % ) Cardiac disorders Palpitations 26 % Tachycardia 8 % Chest pain 8 % General disorders and administration site conditions Asthenia 23 % Edema 21 % Pain 15 % Fever 9 % Peripheral edema 9 % Malaise 6 % Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 26 % Nausea 17 % Abdominal pain 16 % Vomiting 10 % Flatulence 10 % Anorexia 8 % Dyspepsia 5 % Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Dyspnea 12 % Cough 6 % Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 8 % Pruritus 6 % Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 6 % Nervous system disorders Headache 44 % Dizziness 15 % Paresthesia 6 % Adverse Reactions ( frequency 1 % to < 5 % ) included : General disorders and administration site conditions : Flu symptoms , chills .
Cardiac disorders : Arrhythmia , angina pectoris , heart failure , syncope .
Vascular disorders : Hemorrhage , hypertension , postural hypotension , vasodilatation .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Constipation , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gastritis .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Anemia , thrombocytopenia , ecchymosis .
Hepatobiliary disorders : Elevated liver enzymes .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Arthralgia , myalgia .
Psychiatric disorders : Depression , confusion , nervousness .
Nervous system disorders : Somnolence , insomnia , amnesia , migraine headache .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Epistaxis , pneumonia .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Alopecia .
Eye disorders : Abnormal vision , diplopia .
Ear and labyrinth disorders : Tinnitus .
Renal and urinary disorders : Hematuria , renal failure .
Other less frequent adverse reactions ( < 1 % ) were : Cardiac disorders : Ventricular tachycardia , supraventricular tachycardia .
Nervous system disorders : Hypoesthesia .
Clinical Study in Pediatric Patients The frequency of adverse reactions observed in pediatric patients was similar to adult patients .
The most common adverse reactions observed in pediatric patients were fever , epistaxis , headache , and fatigue during the 3 - month AGRYLIN treatment in the study .
Episodes of increased pulse and decreased systolic or diastolic blood pressure beyond the normal ranges in the absence of clinical symptoms were observed .
Other adverse reactions reported in these pediatric patients receiving AGRYLIN treatment were palpitations , headache , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , back pain , anorexia , fatigue , and muscle cramps .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - marketing use of AGRYLIN .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorders : Prinzmetal angina , Torsades de pointes .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Interstitial lung diseases ( including allergic alveolitis , eosinophilic pneumonia , and interstitial pneumonitis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Renal and urinary disorders : Tubulointerstitial nephritis .
Hepatobiliary disorders : Clinically significant hepatotoxicity ( including symptomatic ALT and AST elevations and elevations greater than three times the ULN ) .
Nervous system disorders : Cerebral infarction Other adverse reactions in pediatric patients reported in spontaneous reports and literature reviews include : Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Anemia .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Cutaneous photosensitivity .
Investigations : Elevated leukocyte count .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Other PDE3 inhibitors : Exacerbation of inotropic effects .
( 7 . 2 ) • Aspirin and Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk : Increased risk of bleeding with concomitant use .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Prolong QT Avoid use of AGRYLIN in patients taking medications that may prolong QT interval ( including , but not limited to , chloroquine , clarithromycin , haloperidol , methadone , moxifloxacin , amiodarone , disopyramide , procainamide , and pimozide ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 PDE3 Inhibitors AGRYLIN is a phosphodiesterase 3 ( PDE3 ) inhibitor .
Avoid use of drug products with similar properties such as inotropes and other PDE3 inhibitors ( e . g . , cilostazol , milrinone ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 3 Aspirin and Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk Co - administration of single - dose or repeat - dose AGRYLIN and aspirin showed greater ex vivo anti - platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Results from an observational study in patients with essential thrombocythemia suggest the rate of major hemorrhagic events ( MHEs ) in patients treated with AGRYLIN is higher than in those subjects treated with another cytoreductive treatment .
The majority of the major hemorrhagic events occurred in patients who were also receiving concomitant anti - aggregatory treatment ( primarily , aspirin ) .
Therefore , the potential risks of the concomitant use of AGRYLIN with aspirin should be assessed , particularly in patients with a high - risk profile for hemorrhage , before treatment is initiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor patients for bleeding , particularly those receiving concomitant therapy with other drugs known to cause bleeding ( e . g . , anticoagulants , PDE3 inhibitors , NSAIDs , antiplatelet agents , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ) .
7 . 4 CYP450 Interactions CYP1A2 inhibitors : AGRYLIN and its active metabolite are primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 .
Drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 ( e . g . , fluvoxamine , ciprofloxacin ) could increase the exposure of AGRYLIN .
Monitor patients for cardiovascular events and titrate doses accordingly when CYP1A2 inhibitors are co - administered .
CYP1A2 inducers : CYP1A2 inducers could decrease the exposure of AGRYLIN .
Patients taking concomitant CYP1A2 inducers ( e . g . , omeprazole ) may need to have their dose titrated to compensate for the decrease in AGRYLIN exposure .
CYP1A2 substrates : AGRYLIN demonstrates limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 in vitro and may alter the exposure of concomitant CYP1A2 substrates ( e . g . , theophylline , fluvoxamine , ondansetron ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from case reports with AGRYLIN use in pregnant women have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal embryo - fetal studies , delayed fetal development ( delayed skeletal ossification and reduced body weight ) was observed in rats administered anagrelide hydrochloride during organogenesis at doses approximately 97 times the maximum clinical dose ( 10 mg / day ) based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
There are adverse effects on maternal and fetal outcomes associated with thrombocythemia in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defect and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Thrombotic events , such as stroke , deep vein thrombosis , or myocardial infarction , can be complications of thrombocythemia .
Thrombocythemia in pregnancy is associated with an increased risk for miscarriage , stillbirth , and other maternal outcomes , such as preeclampsia .
Data Animal Data Anagrelide hydrochloride was administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 900 mg / kg / day in rats and up to 20 mg / kg / day in rabbits ( 875 and 39 times , respectively , the maximum clinical dose of 10 mg / day based on body surface area ) .
In rats , developmental delays were observed including reductions in fetal weight at 300 and 900 mg / kg / day and delays in skeletal ossification at doses of 100 mg / kg / day and higher .
The dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day ) in rats is approximately 97 times the maximum clinical dose based on body surface area .
No adverse embryo - fetal effects were detected in rabbits at the highest dose of 20 mg / kg / day ( 39 times the maximal clinical dose based on body surface area ) .
In a pre - and post - natal study conducted in female rats , anagrelide hydrochloride administered at oral doses of 60 mg / kg / day ( 58 times the maximum clinical dose based on body surface area ) or higher during organogenesis through lactation produced delay or blockage of parturition , deaths of non - delivering pregnant dams and their fully developed fetuses , and increased mortality in the pups born .
In a placental transfer study , a single oral dose of [ 14 C ] - anagrelide hydrochloride ( 3 mg / kg ) was administered to pregnant rats on gestation Day 17 .
Drug - related radioactivity was detected in maternal and fetal tissue .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of anagrelide in human milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Anagrelide or its metabolites have been detected in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including thrombocytopenia , in a breastfed child , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with AGRYLIN , and for one week following the last dose .
Data In a rat milk secretion study , a single oral dose of [ 14 C ] - anagrelide hydrochloride ( 3 mg / kg ) was administered to lactating female rats on postnatal Day 10 .
Drug - related radioactivity was detected in the maternal milk and blood .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Females Based on findings from animal studies , AGRYLIN may impair female fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of AGRYLIN have been established in pediatric patients 7 years of age and older .
There are no data for pediatric patients less than 7 years of age .
Use of AGRYLIN in these pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well controlled studies of AGRYLIN in adults with additional pharmacokinetic , pharmacodynamic , and safety data in 18 pediatric patients aged 7 through 16 years with thrombocythemia secondary to ET [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
There were no apparent trends or differences in the types of adverse events observed between the pediatric patients compared with those of the adult patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 942 subjects in clinical studies of AGRYLIN , 42 . 1 % were 65 years and over , while 14 . 9 % were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Hepatic metabolism is the major route of anagrelide clearance .
Exposure to anagrelide is increased 8 - fold in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] and dose reduction is required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Use of AGRYLIN in patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been studied .
Avoid use of AGRYLIN in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
The potential risks and benefits of AGRYLIN therapy in a patient with mild and moderate hepatic impairment should be assessed before treatment is commenced .
Assess hepatic function before and during AGRYLIN treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE At higher than recommended doses , AGRYLIN has been shown to cause hypotension .
There have been postmarketing case reports of intentional overdose with AGRYLIN .
Reported symptoms include sinus tachycardia and vomiting .
Symptoms resolved with supportive management .
Platelet reduction from AGRYLIN therapy is dose - related ; therefore , thrombocytopenia , which can potentially cause bleeding , is expected from overdosage .
In case of overdosage , stop AGRYLIN dosing and monitor platelet counts for thrombocytopenia and observe for possible complications such as bleeding .
Consider resumption of AGRYLIN dosing once the platelet count returns to the normal range .
11 DESCRIPTION AGRYLIN ( anagrelide hydrochloride ) is a platelet - reducing agent .
Its chemical name is 6 , 7 - dichloro - 1 , 5 - dihydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ] quinazolin - 2 ( 3 H ) - one monohydrochloride monohydrate .
The molecular formula is C10H7Cl2N3O ∙ HCl ∙ H2O which corresponds to a molecular weight of 310 . 55 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Anagrelide hydrochloride is an off - white powder .
It is very slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylformamide .
AGRYLIN is supplied as capsules for oral administration , containing 0 . 5 mg of anagrelide ( equivalent to 0 . 61 mg of anagrelide hydrochloride USP ) .
The capsules also contain anhydrous lactose NF , crospovidone NF , lactose monohydrate NF , magnesium stearate NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , and povidone NF as inactive ingredients .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , titanium dioxide , and black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which anagrelide reduces blood platelet count is unknown .
In cell culture studies , anagrelide suppressed expression of transcription factors including GATA - 1 and FOG - 1 required for megakaryocytopoiesis , ultimately leading to reduced platelet production .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In blood withdrawn from normal volunteers treated with anagrelide , a disruption was found in the postmitotic phase of megakaryocyte development and a reduction in megakaryocyte size and ploidy .
At therapeutic doses , anagrelide does not produce significant changes in white cell counts or coagulation parameters , and may have a small , but clinically insignificant effect on red cell parameters .
The active metabolite , 3 - hydroxy anagrelide , has similar potency and efficacy to that of anagrelide in the platelet lowering effect ; however , exposure ( measured by plasma AUC ) to 3 - hydroxy anagrelide is approximately 2 - fold higher compared to anagrelide .
Anagrelide and 3 - hydroxy anagrelide inhibit cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase 3 ( PDE3 ) and 3 - hydroxy anagrelide is approximately forty times more potent than anagrelide ( IC50s = 0 . 9 and 36 nM , respectively ) .
PDE3 inhibition does not alter platelet production .
PDE3 inhibitors , as a class can inhibit platelet aggregation .
However , significant inhibition of platelet aggregation is observed only at doses of anagrelide higher than those typically required to reduce platelet count .
PDE3 inhibitors have cardiovascular ( CV ) effects including vasodilation , positive inotropy and chronotropy .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of anagrelide dose ( 0 . 5 mg and 2 . 5 mg single doses ) on the heart rate and QTc interval prolongation potential was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo - and active - controlled , cross - over study in 60 healthy adult men and women .
A dose - related increase in heart rate was observed , with the maximum increase occurring around the time of maximal drug concentration ( 0 . 5 – 4 hours ) .
The maximum change in mean heart rate occurred at 2 hours after administration and was + 7 . 8 beats per minute ( bpm ) for 0 . 5 mg and + 29 . 1 bpm for 2 . 5 mg .
Dose - related increase in mean QTc was observed .
The maximum mean ( 95 % upper confidence bound ) change in QTcI ( individual subject correction ) from placebo after baseline - correction was 7 . 0 ( 9 . 8 ) ms and 13 . 0 ( 15 . 7 ) ms following anagrelide doses of 0 . 5 mg and 2 . 5 mg , respectively .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Dose proportionality has been found in the dose range 0 . 5 mg to 2 . 5 mg .
Absorption Following oral administration of AGRYLIN , at least 70 % is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
In fasted subjects , anagrelide peak plasma concentrations occur within about 1 hour after administration .
Pharmacokinetic data obtained from healthy volunteers comparing the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide in the fed and fasted states showed that administration of a 1 mg dose of anagrelide with food decreased the Cmax by 14 % , but increased the AUC by 20 % .
Food decreased the Cmax of the active metabolite 3 - hydroxy anagrelide by 29 % , although it had no effect on the AUC .
Elimination Anagrelide and 3 - hydroxy anagrelide are eliminated with plasma half - lives of approximately 1 . 5 and 2 . 5 hours , respectively .
Anagrelide and 3 - hydroxy anagrelide do not accumulate in plasma when the clinical dose regimens are administered .
Metabolism : Anagrelide is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 to the active metabolite , 3 - hydroxy anagrelide , which is subsequently metabolized by CYP1A2 to the inactive metabolite , RL603 .
Less than 1 % of the administered dose is recovered in the urine as anagrelide , and approximately 3 % and 16 - 20 % of the administered dose is recovered as 3 - hydroxy anagrelide and RL603 , respectively .
Drug Interactions Aspirin : In two pharmacodynamic interaction studies in healthy subjects , co - administration of single - dose anagrelide 1 mg and aspirin 900 mg or repeat - dose anagrelide 1 mg once daily and aspirin 75 mg once daily showed greater ex vivo anti - platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone .
Co - administered anagrelide 1 mg and aspirin 900 mg single - doses had no effect on bleeding time , prothrombin time ( PT ) or activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) .
Digoxin or warfarin : In vivo interaction studies in humans have demonstrated that anagrelide does not affect the pharmacokinetic properties of digoxin or warfarin , nor does digoxin or warfarin affect the pharmacokinetic properties of anagrelide .
Specific Populations Pediatric : Dose - normalized Cmax and AUC of anagrelide were higher in children and adolescents ( age range 7 through 16 years ) with essential thrombocythemia , by 17 % and 56 % , respectively , than in adult patients ( 19 through 57 years ) .
Geriatric : Cmax and AUC of anagrelide were 36 % and 61 % higher , respectively , in elderly patients ( age range 65 through 75 years ) , than in younger adults ( age range 22 through 50 years ) , but Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite , 3 - hydroxy anagrelide , were 42 % and 37 % lower , respectively , in the elderly patients .
Renal Impairment : Pharmacokinetic study at a single dose of 1 mg anagrelide in subjects with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) showed no significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of anagrelide .
Hepatic Impairment : A pharmacokinetic study at a single dose of 1 mg anagrelide in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh score 7 - 9 ) showed a 2 - fold increase in mean anagrelide Cmax and an 8 - fold increase in total exposure ( AUC ) to anagrelide compared with healthy subjects .
Additionally , subjects with moderate hepatic impairment showed 24 % lower mean 3 - hydroxy anagrelide Cmax and 77 % higher mean 3 - hydroxy anagrelide AUC compared to healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year rat carcinogenicity study a higher incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma , relative to controls , was observed in females receiving 30 mg / kg / day ( at least 174 times human AUC exposure after a 1 mg twice daily dose ) .
Adrenal pheochromocytomas were increased relative to controls in males receiving 3 mg / kg / day and above , and in females receiving 10 mg / kg / day and above ( at least 10 and 18 times respectively human AUC exposure after a 1 mg twice daily dose ) .
Anagrelide hydrochloride was not mutagenic in the bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) assay or the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y , TK + / - ) forward mutation assay , and was not clastogenic in the in vitro chromosome aberration assay using human lymphocytes or the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Anagrelide hydrochloride at oral doses up to 240 mg / kg / day ( 233 times the recommended human dose of 10 mg / day based on body surface area ) had no effect on fertility and reproductive function of male rats .
However , in fertility studies in female rats , oral doses of 30 mg / kg / day ( 29 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) or higher resulted in increased pre - and post - implantation loss and a decrease in the number of live embryos .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In the 2 - year rat study , a significant increase in non - neoplastic lesions was observed in anagrelide treated males and females in the adrenal ( medullary hyperplasia ) , heart ( myocardial hypertrophy and chamber distension ) , kidney ( hydronephrosis , tubular dilation and urothelial hyperplasia ) , and bone ( femur enostosis ) .
Vascular effects were observed in tissues of the pancreas ( arteritis / periarteritis , intimal proliferation , and medial hypertrophy ) , kidney ( arteritis / periarteritis , intimal proliferation , and medial hypertrophy ) , sciatic nerve ( vascular mineralization ) , and testes ( tubular atrophy and vascular infarct ) in anagrelide - treated males .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical Studies in Adult Patients : A total of 942 patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms including 551 patients with Essential Thrombocythemia ( ET ) , 117 patients with Polycythemia Vera ( PV ) , 178 patients with Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ( CML ) , and 96 patients with other myeloproliferative neoplasms ( OMPN ) , were treated with AGRYLIN in three clinical trials .
Patients with OMPN included 87 patients who had Myeloid Metaplasia with Myelofibrosis ( MMM ) , and 9 patients who had unclassified myeloproliferative neoplasms .
Patients were enrolled in clinical trials if their platelet count was ≥ 900 , 000 / µL on two occasions or ≥ 650 , 000 / µL on two occasions with documentation of symptoms associated with thrombocythemia .
The mean duration of AGRYLIN therapy for ET , PV , CML , and OMPN patients was 65 , 67 , 40 , and 44 weeks , respectively ; 23 % of patients received treatment for 2 years .
Patients were treated with AGRYLIN starting at doses of 0 . 5 - 2 . 0 mg every 6 hours .
The dose was increased if the platelet count was still high , but to no more than 12 mg each day .
Efficacy was defined as reduction of platelet count to or near physiologic levels ( 150 , 000 - 400 , 000 / µL ) .
The criteria for defining subjects as " responders " were reduction in platelets for at least 4 weeks to ≤ 600 , 000 / µL , or by at least 50 % from baseline value .
Subjects treated for less than 4 weeks were not considered evaluable .
The results are depicted graphically below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Time on Treatment Weeks Years Baseline 4 12 24 48 2 3 4 Mean [ 1 ] 1131 683 575 526 484 460 437 457 N 923 [ 2 ] 868 814 662 530 407 207 55 [ 1 ] x 103 / µL [ 2 ] Nine hundred and forty - two subjects with myeloproliferative neoplasms were enrolled in three research studies .
Of these , 923 had platelet counts measured over the duration of the studies .
AGRYLIN was effective in phlebotomized patients as well as in patients treated with other concomitant therapies including hydroxyurea , aspirin , interferon , radioactive phosphorus , and alkylating agents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Study in Pediatric Patients : An open - label safety and PK / PD study was conducted in 18 pediatric patients 7 through 16 years of age ( 8 children 7 through 11 years of age and 10 adolescents 12 through 16 years of age , mean age of 12 years ; 8 males and 10 females ) with thrombocythemia secondary to ET as compared to 17 adult patients ( mean age of 66 years , 9 males and 8 females ) .
Prior to entry on to the study , 17 of 18 pediatric patients and 12 of 17 adult patients had received AGRYLIN treatment for an average of 2 years .
The median starting total daily dose , determined by retrospective chart review , for pediatric and adult patients with ET who had received AGRYLIN prior to study entry was 1 mg for each of the three age groups ( 7 through 11 and 12 through 16 years of age and adults ) .
The starting dose for 6 AGRYLIN - naive patients at study entry was 0 . 5 mg once daily .
At study completion , the median total daily maintenance doses were similar across age groups , median of 1 . 75 mg for children of 7 through 11 years of age , 2 . 25 mg in adolescents 12 through 16 years of age , and 1 . 5 mg for adults .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AGRYLIN is available as : 0 . 5 mg , opaque , white capsules imprinted " [ MULTIMEDIA ] 063 " in black ink : NDC 54092 - 063 - 01 = bottle of 100 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) , [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store in a light resistant container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Dose : Tell the patient that their dose will be adjusted on a weekly basis until they are on a dose that lowers their platelets to an appropriate level .
This will also help the patient to adjust to common side effects .
Tell the patient to contact their doctor if they experience tolerability issues , so the dose or dosing frequency can be adjusted [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Cardiovascular effects : Tell the patient to contact a doctor immediately if they experience chest pain , palpitations , or feel their heartbeat is irregular [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Risk of Pulmonary Hypertension : Tell the patient to contact a doctor immediately if they experience shortness of breath , swelling in legs or ankles , or lips and skin turn a bluish color [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Risk of bleeding : Warn the patient that concomitant aspirin ( or other medicines that affect blood clotting ) may increase the risk of bleeding .
Tell the patient to contact a doctor immediately if they experience signs or symptoms of bleeding ( e . g . , vomit blood , pass bloody or black stools ) or experience unexplained bruising / bruise more easily than usual [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Lactation : Advise patients not to breastfeed during treatment with AGRYLIN , and for one week following the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• Infertility : Advise females of reproductive potential treatment with AGRYLIN may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 AGRYLIN ® is a registered trademark of Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
© 2021 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 5 mg Capsule Bottle Label 063 - 01 NDC 54092 - 063 - 01 Agrylin ® ( anagrelide ) Capsules Platelet - reducing Agent 100 CAPSULES Rx only 0 . 5 mg Takeda [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
