DESCRIPTION Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules , USP are a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) .
Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules are available for oral administration as a 120 mg hard gelatin capsule ( bluish green opaque cap and white opaque body ) , a 180 mg hard gelatin capsule ( bluish green opaque cap and light green opaque body ) and a 240 mg hard gelatin capsule ( bluish green opaque cap and bluish green opaque body ) .
These bead filled capsules provide an extended - release of the drug in the gastrointestinal tract .
The structural formula of verapamil HCl is given below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical name : ( ± ) - 5 - [ ( 3 , 4 - Dimethoxyphenethyl ) methylamino ] - 2 - ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) - 2 - isopropylvaleronitrile monohydrochloride .
Verapamil HCl , USP is a white or practically white , crystalline powder , practically free of odor , with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , chloroform and methanol .
Verapamil HCl is not structurally related to other cardioactive drugs .
In addition to verapamil HCl the verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules contain the following inactive ingredients : ammonium hydroxide , dibutyl sebacate , diethyl phthalate , ethylcellulose , FD & C Green No . 3 , gelatin , hypromellose , maltodextrin , methacrylic acid copolymer Type A and B , oleic acid , polyethylene glycol , povidone , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sugar spheres ( which contain cornstarch and sucrose ) , talc and titanium dioxide , the 180 mg capsules also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 .
In addition , the black imprinting ink contains black iron oxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules are a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) which exert its pharmacologic effects by modulating the influx of ionic calcium across the cell membrane of the arterial smooth muscle as well as in conductile and contractile myocardial cells .
Normal sinus rhythm is usually not affected by verapamil HCl .
However in patients with sick sinus syndrome , verapamil HCl may interfere with sinus node impulse generation and may induce sinus arrest or sinoatrial block .
Atrioventricular block can occur in patients without preexisting conduction defects .
( See WARNINGS . )
Verapamil HCl does not alter the normal atrial action potential or intraventricular conduction time , but depresses amplitude , velocity of depolarization and conduction in depressed atrial fibers .
Verapamil HCl may shorten the antegrade effective refractory period of accessory bypass tracts .
Acceleration of ventricular rate and / or ventricular fibrillation has been reported in patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and a coexisting accessory AV pathway following administration of verapamil .
( See WARNINGS . )
Verapamil HCl has a local anesthetic action that is 1 . 6 times that of procaine on an equimolar basis .
It is not known whether this action is important at the doses used in man .
Mechanism of Action Essential Hypertension Verapamil HCl exerts antihypertensive effects by decreasing systemic vascular resistance , usually without orthostatic decreases in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia ; bradycardia ( rate less than 50 beats / minute is uncommon ) .
Verapamil HCl regularly reduces arterial pressure at rest and at a given level of exercise by dilating peripheral arterioles and reducing the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism With the immediate release formulations , more than 90 % of the orally administered dose is absorbed , and peak plasma concentrations of verapamil are observed 1 to 2 hours after dosing .
Because of rapid biotransformation of verapamil during its first pass through the portal circulation , the absolute bioavailability ranges from 20 % to 35 % .
Chronic oral administration of the highest recommended dose ( 120 mg every 6 hours ) resulted in plasma verapamil levels ranging from 125 to 400 ng / mL with higher values reported occasionally .
A nonlinear correlation between the verapamil HCl dose administered and verapamil plasma levels does exist .
During initial dose titration with verapamil a relationship exists between verapamil plasma concentrations and the prolongation of the PR interval .
However , during chronic administration this relationship may disappear .
The quantitative relationship between plasma verapamil concentrations and blood pressure reduction has not been fully characterized .
In a multiple dose pharmacokinetic study , peak concentrations for a single daily dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules 240 mg were approximately 65 % of those obtained with an 80 mg t . i . d . dose of the conventional immediate - release tablets , and the 24 hour post - dose concentrations were approximately 30 % higher .
At a total daily dose of 240 mg , verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules were shown to have a similar extent of verapamil bioavailability based on the AUC - 24 as that obtained with the conventional immediate - release tablets .
In this same study verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules doses of 120 mg , 240 mg and 360 mg once daily were compared after multiple doses .
The ratios of the verapamil and norverapamil AUCs for the verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules 120 mg , 240 mg and 360 mg once daily doses are 1 ( 565 ng • hr / mL ) : 3 ( 1660 ng • hr / mL ) : 5 ( 2729 ng • hr / mL ) and 1 ( 621 ng • hr / mL ) : 3 ( 1614 ng • hr / mL ) : 4 ( 2535 ng • hr / mL ) respectively , indicating that the AUC increased non - proportionately with increasing doses .
Food does not affect the extent or rate of the absorption of verapamil from the controlled release verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsule .
The verapamil hydrochloride extended - release 240 mg capsule when administered with food had a C max of 77 ng / mL which occurred 9 . 0 hours after dosing , and an AUC ( 0 - inf ) of 1387 ng • hr / mL .
Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules 240 mg under fasting conditions had a C max of 77 ng / mL which occurred 9 . 8 hours after dosing , and an AUC ( 0 - inf ) of 1541 ng • hr / mL .
The bioequivalence of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules 240 mg , administered as the beads sprinkled on applesauce and as the intact capsule , was demonstrated in a single - dose , cross - over study in 32 healthy adults .
Comparative ratios ( sprinkled / intact ) of verapamil were 0 . 95 , 1 . 02 , and 1 . 01 for C max , T max , and AUC ( 0 - inf ) respectively .
When the contents of the verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsule were administered by sprinkling onto one tablespoonful of applesauce , the rate and extent of verapamil absorption were found to be bioequivalent to the same dose when administered as an intact capsule .
Similar results were observed with norverapamil .
The time to reach maximum verapamil concentrations ( T max ) with verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules have been found to be approximately 7 - 9 hours in each of the single dose ( fasting ) , single dose ( fed ) , the multiple dose ( steady state ) studies and dose proportionality pharmacokinetic studies .
Similarly the apparent half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) has been found to be approximately 12 hours independent of dose .
Aging may affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil .
Elimination half - life may be prolonged in the elderly .
In healthy man , orally administered verapamil HCl undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver .
Twelve metabolites have been identified in plasma ; all except norverapamil are present in trace amounts only .
Norverapamil can reach steady - state plasma concentrations approximately equal to those of verapamil itself .
The biologic activity of norverapamil appears to be approximately 20 % that of verapamil .
Approximately 70 % of an administered dose of verapamil HCl is excreted as metabolites in the urine and 16 % or more in the feces within 5 days .
About 3 % to 4 % is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug .
Approximately 90 % is bound to plasma proteins .
In patients with hepatic insufficiency , metabolism is delayed and elimination half - life prolonged up to 14 to 16 hours ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , the volume of distribution is increased and plasma clearance reduced to about 30 % of normal .
Verapamil clearance values suggest that patients with liver dysfunction may attain therapeutic verapamil plasma concentrations with one - third of the oral daily dose required for patients with normal liver function .
After four weeks of oral dosing ( 120 mg q . i . d . ) , verapamil and norverapamil levels were noted in the cerebrospinal fluid with estimated partition coefficient of 0 . 06 for verapamil and 0 . 04 for norverapamil .
In 10 healthy males , administration of oral verapamil ( 80 mg every 8 hours for 6 days ) and a single oral dose of ethanol ( 0 . 8 g / kg ) , resulted in a 17 % increase in mean peak ethanol concentrations ( 106 . 45 ± 21 . 40 to 124 . 23 ± 24 . 74 mg / dL ) compared with placebo .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
The area under the blood ethanol concentration versus time curve ( AUC over 12 hours ) increased by 30 % ( 365 . 67 ± 93 . 52 to 475 . 07 ± 97 . 24 mg • hr / dL ) .
Verapamil AUCs were positively correlated ( r = 0 . 71 ) to increased ethanol blood AUC values .
Geriatric Use The pharmacokinetics of verapamil GITS were studied after 5 consecutive nights of dosing 180 mg in 30 healthy young ( 19 - 43 years ) versus 30 healthy elderly ( 65 - 80 years ) male and female subjects .
Older subjects had significantly higher mean verapamil C max , C min and AUC ( 0 - 24 h ) compared to younger subjects .
Older subjects had mean AUCs that were approximately 1 . 7 - 2 . 0 times higher than those of younger subjects as well as a longer average verapamil t 1 / 2 ( approximately 20 hr vs 13 hr ) .
Hemodynamics and Myocardial Metabolism Verapamil HCl reduces afterload and myocardial contractility .
Improved left ventricular diastolic function in patients with IHSS and those with coronary heart disease has also been observed with verapamil HCl therapy .
In most patients , including those with organic cardiac disease , the negative inotropic action of verapamil HCl is countered by reduction of afterload and cardiac index is usually not reduced .
In patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction however , ( e . g . , pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mmHg or ejection fraction lower than 30 % ) , or in patients on beta - adrenergic blocking agents or other cardio - depressant drugs , deterioration of ventricular function may occur .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
Pulmonary Function Verapamil HCl does not induce broncho - constriction and hence , does not impair ventilatory function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil HCl is contraindicated in : • Severe left ventricular dysfunction .
( See WARNINGS . )
• Hypotension ( less than 90 mmHg systolic pressure ) or cardiogenic shock .
• Sick sinus syndrome ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) .
• Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract ( e . g . , Wolff - Parkinson - White , Lown - Ganong - Levine syndromes ) .
( See WARNINGS . )
• Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Heart Failure Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect which , in most patients , is compensated by its afterload reduction ( decreased systemic vascular resistance ) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance .
In clinical experience with 4 , 954 patients , 87 ( 1 . 8 % ) developed congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema .
Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction ( e . g . , ejection fraction less than 30 % or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure ) and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocker .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should , if possible , be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and / or diuretics before verapamil treatment ( note interactions with digoxin under : PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hypotension Occasionally , the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension .
The incidence of hypotension observed in 4 , 954 patients enrolled in clinical trials was 2 . 5 % .
In hypertensive patients , decreases in blood pressure below normal are unusual .
Tilt table testing ( 60 degrees ) was not able to induce orthostatic hypotension .
Elevated Liver Enzymes Elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevations in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been reported .
Such elevations have sometimes been transient and may disappear even in the face of continued verapamil treatment .
Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge ; half of these had clinical symptoms ( malaise , fever , and / or right upper quadrant pain ) in addition to elevations of SGOT , SGPT and alkaline phosphatase .
Periodic monitoring of liver function in patients receiving verapamil is therefore prudent .
Accessory Bypass Tract ( Wolff - Parkinson - White or Lown - Ganong - Levine ) Some patients with paroxysmal and / or chronic atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node , producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil ( or digitalis ) .
Although a risk of this occurring with oral verapamil has not been established , such patients receiving oral verapamil may be at risk and its use in these patients is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Treatment is usually DC - cardioversion .
Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil .
Atrioventricular Block The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may lead to asymptomatic first - degree AV block and transient bradycardia , sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms .
PR interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations , especially during the early titration phase of therapy .
Higher degrees of AV block , however , were infrequently ( 0 . 8 % ) observed .
Marked first - degree block or progressive development to second - or third - degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or , in rare instances , discontinuation of verapamil HCl and institution of appropriate therapy depending upon the clinical situation .
Patients with Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) In 120 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( most of them refractory or intolerant to propranolol ) who received therapy with verapamil at doses up to 720 mg / day , a variety of serious adverse effects were seen .
Three patients died in pulmonary edema ; all had severe left ventricular outflow obstruction and a past history of left ventricular dysfunction .
Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and / or severe hypotension ; abnormally high ( over 20 mmHg ) capillary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients .
Concomitant administration of quinidine ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) preceded the severe hypotension in 3 of the 8 patients ( 2 of whom developed pulmonary edema ) .
Sinus bradycardia occurred in 11 % of the patients , second - degree AV block in 4 % and sinus arrest in 2 % .
It must be appreciated that this group of patients had a serious disease with a high mortality rate .
Most adverse effects responded well to dose reduction and only rarely did verapamil have to be discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS THE CONTENTS OF THE VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE CAPSULE SHOULD NOT BE CRUSHED OR CHEWED .
VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE EXTENDED - RELEASE CAPSULES ARE TO BE SWALLOWED WHOLE OR THE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF THE CAPSULE SPRINKLED ONTO APPLESAUCE ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
General Use in Patients with Impaired Hepatic Function Since verapamil is highly metabolized by the liver , it should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired hepatic function .
Severe liver dysfunction prolongs the elimination half - life of immediate - release verapamil to about 14 to 16 hours ; hence , approximately 30 % of the dose given to patients with normal liver function should be administered to these patients .
Careful monitoring for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of excessive pharmacologic effects ( see OVERDOSAGE ) should be carried out .
Use in Patients with Attenuated ( Decreased ) Neuromuscular Transmission It has been reported that verapamil decreases neuromuscular transmission in patients with Duchenne ’ s muscular dystrophy , and that verapamil prolongs recovery from the neuromuscular blocking agent vecuronium and causes a worsening of myasthenia gravis .
It may be necessary to decrease the dosage of verapamil when it is administered to patients with attenuated neuromuscular transmission .
Use in Patients with Impaired Renal Function About 70 % of an administered dose of verapamil is excreted as metabolites in the urine .
Until further data are available , verapamil should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired renal function .
These patients should be carefully monitored for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of overdosage .
( See OVERDOSAGE . )
Information for Patients When the sprinkle method of administration is prescribed , details of the proper technique should be explained to the patient .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Drug - Drug Interactions Drug Interactions Effects of other drugs on verapamil pharmacokinetics In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450 , CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , and CYP2C .
Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , erythromycin , ritonavir ) causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil while inducers of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , rifampin ) have caused a lowering of plasma levels of verapamil .
Hypotension , bradyarrhythmias , and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin , and antibiotic in the ketolide class of antibiotics .
Ivabradine Concurrent use of verapamil increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conductions disturbances .
Avoid concomitant use of ivabradine and verapamil .
HMG - CoA Reductase Inhibitors The use of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis .
Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of verapamil with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in exposure to simvastatin 2 . 5 - fold that following simvastatin alone .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on verapamil to 10 mg daily .
Limit the daily dose of lovastatin to 40 mg .
Lower starting and maintenance doses of other CYP3A4 substrates ( e . g . , atorvastatin ) may be required as verapamil may increase the plasma concentration of these drugs .
Beta - Blockers Concomitant therapy with beta - adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate , atrioventricular conduction , and / or cardiac contractility .
The combination of extended - release verapamil and beta - adrenergic blocking agents has not been studied .
However , there have been reports of excess bradycardia and AV block , including complete heart block , when the combination has been used for the treatment of hypertension .
For hypertensive patients , the risk of combined therapy may outweigh the potential benefits .
The combination should be used only with caution and close monitoring .
Asymptomatic bradycardia ( 36 beats / min ) with a wandering atrial pacemaker has been observed in a patient receiving concomitant timolol ( a beta - adrenergic blocker ) eyedrops and oral verapamil .
A decrease in metoprolol clearance has been reported when verapamil and metoprolol were administered together .
A similar effect has not been observed when verapamil and atenolol are given together .
Clonidine Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant verapamil and clonidine .
Digitalis Consider reducing digoxin dose when verapamil and digoxin are to be given together .
Monitor digoxin level periodically during therapy .
Chronic verapamil treatment can increase serum digoxin levels by 50 % to 75 % during the first week of therapy , and this can result in digitalis toxicity .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis the influence of verapamil on digoxin pharmacokinetics is magnified .
Verapamil may reduce total body clearance and extrarenal clearance of digoxin by 27 % and 29 % , respectively .
If digoxin toxicity is suspected , suspend or discontinue digoxin therapy .
In previous clinical trials with other verapamil formulations related to the control of ventricular response in patients taking digoxin who had atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter , ventricular rates below 50 / min at rest occurred in 15 % of patients , and asymptomatic hypotension occurred in 5 % of patients .
Antihypertensive Agents Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents ( e . g . , vasodilators , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , diuretics , beta blockers ) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure .
Patients receiving these combinations should be appropriately monitored .
Concomitant use of agents that attenuate alpha - adrenergic function with verapamil may result in reduction in blood pressure that is excessive in some patients .
Such an effect was observed in one study following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin .
Antiarrhythmic Agents Disopyramide Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide phosphate are obtained , disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration .
Flecainide A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility , AV conduction , and repolarization .
Concomitant therapy with flecainide and verapamil may result in additive negative inotropic effect and prolongation of atrioventricular conduction .
Quinidine In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension .
Until further data are obtained , combined therapy of verapamil and quinidine in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should probably be avoided .
The electrophysiological effects of quinidine and verapamil on AV conduction were studied in 8 patients .
Verapamil significantly counteracted the effects of quinidine on AV conduction .
There has been a report of increased quinidine levels during verapamil therapy .
Nitrates Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short - and long - acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions .
The pharmacologic profile of both drugs and the clinical experience suggest beneficial interactions .
Alcohol Verapamil has been found to significantly inhibit ethanol elimination resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism . )
Other Aspirin In a few reported cases , coadministration of verapamil with aspirin has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone .
Cimetidine The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied .
Variable results on clearance have been obtained in acute studies of healthy volunteers ; clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged .
Grapefruit Juice Grapefruit juice may significantly increase concentrations of verapamil .
Grapefruit juice given to nine healthy volunteers increased S - and R - verapamil AUC ( 0 - 12 ) by 36 % and 28 % , respectively .
Steady state C max and C min of S - verapamil increased by 57 % and 16 . 7 % , respectively with grapefruit juice compared to control .
Similarly , C max and C min of R - verapamil increased by 40 % and 13 % , respectively .
Grapefruit juice did not affect half - life , nor was there a significant change in AUC ( 0 - 12 ) ratio R / S compared to control .
Grapefruit juice did not cause a significant difference in the PK of norverapamil .
This increase in verapamil plasma concentration is not expected to have any clinical consequences .
Lithium Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between oral verapamil and lithium have been reported .
The former may result in a lowering of serum lithium levels in patients receiving chronic stable oral lithium therapy .
The latter may result in an increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium .
Patients receiving both drugs must be monitored carefully .
Carbamazepine Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy .
This may produce carbamazepine side effects such as diplopia , headache , ataxia , or dizziness .
Rifampin Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability .
Phenobarbital Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance .
Cyclosporine Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine .
Theophylline Verapamil may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline .
Inhalation Anesthetics Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions .
When used concomitantly , inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists , such as verapamil , should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression .
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents ( curare - like and depolarizing ) .
It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and / or the dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly .
Mammalian Target of Rapamycin ( mTOR ) Inhibitors In a study of 25 healthy volunteers with co - administration of verapamil with sirolimus , whole blood sirolimus C max and AUC were increased 130 % and 120 % , respectively .
Plasma S ( - ) verapamil C max and AUC were both increased 50 % .
Co - administration of verapamil with everolimus in 16 healthy volunteers increased the C max and AUC of everolimus by 130 % and 250 % , respectively .
With concomitant use of mTOR inhibitors ( e . g . , sirolimus , temsirolimus , and everolimus ) and verapamil , consider appropriate dose reductions of both medications .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month toxicity study in rats , at a low multiple ( 6 fold ) of the maximum recommended human dose , and not the maximum tolerated dose , did not suggest a tumorigenic potential .
There was no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of verapamil administered in the diet of rats for two years at doses of 10 , 35 and 120 mg / kg per day or approximately 1 x , 3 . 5 x and 12 x , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily dose ( 480 mg per day or 9 . 6 mg / kg / day ) .
Verapamil was not mutagenic in the Ames test in 5 test strains at 3 mg per plate , with or without metabolic activation .
Studies in female rats at daily dietary doses up to 5 . 5 times ( 55 mg / kg / day ) the maximum recommended human dose did not show impaired fertility .
Effects on male fertility have not been determined .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at oral doses up to 1 . 5 ( 15 mg / kg / day ) and 6 ( 60 mg / kg / day ) times the maximum recommended human daily dose , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
In the rat , however , this multiple of the human dose was embryocidal and retarded fetal growth and development , probably because of adverse maternal effects reflected in reduced weight gains of the dams .
This oral dose has also been shown to cause hypotension in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Verapamil crosses the placental barrier and can be detected in umbilical vein blood at delivery .
Labor and Delivery It is not known whether the use of verapamil during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , or whether it prolongs the duration of labor or increases the need for forceps delivery or other obstetric intervention .
Such adverse experiences have not been reported in the literature , despite a long history of use of verapamil HCl in Europe in the treatment of cardiac side effects of beta - adrenergic agonist agents used to treat premature labor .
Nursing Mothers Verapamil is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from verapamil , nursing should be discontinued while verapamil is administered .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of verapamil in children below the age of 18 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of verapamil did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Aging may affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil .
Elimination half - life may be prolonged in the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) .
Verapamil is highly metabolized by the liver , and about 70 % of the administered dose is excreted as metabolites in the urine .
Clinical circumstances , some of which may be more common in the elderly , such as hepatic or renal impairment , should be considered ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
In general , lower initial doses of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules may be warranted in the elderly ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Animal Pharmacology and / or Animal Toxicology In chronic animal toxicology studies verapamil caused lenticular and / or suture line changes at 30 mg / kg / day or greater and frank cataracts at 62 . 5 mg / kg / day or greater in the beagle dog but not the rat .
Development of cataracts due to verapamil has not been reported in man .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions are uncommon when verapamil HCl therapy is initiated with upward dose titration within the recommended single and total daily dose .
See WARNINGS for discussion of heart failure , hypotension , elevated liver enzymes , AV block , and rapid ventricular response .
Reversible ( upon discontinuation of verapamil ) non - obstructive , paralytic ileus has been infrequently reported in association with the use of verapamil .
In clinical trials involving 285 hypertensive patients on verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules for greater than 1 week the following adverse reactions were reported in greater than 1 . 0 % of the patients : Constipation 7 . 4 % Headache 5 . 3 % Dizziness 4 . 2 % Lethargy 3 . 2 % Dyspepsia 2 . 5 % Rash 1 . 4 % Ankle Edema 1 . 4 % Sleep Disturbance 1 . 4 % Myalgia 1 . 1 % In clinical trials of other formulations of verapamil HCl ( N = 4 , 954 ) the following reactions have occurred at rates greater than 1 . 0 % : Constipation 7 . 3 % CHF / Pulmonary Edema 1 . 8 % Dizziness 3 . 3 % Fatigue 1 . 7 % Nausea 2 . 7 % Bradycardia ( HR < 50 / min ) 1 . 4 % Hypotension 2 . 5 % AV block - total 1º , 2º , 3º 1 . 2 % 2º and 3º 0 . 8 % Edema 1 . 9 % Headache 2 . 2 % Flushing 0 . 6 % Rash 1 . 2 % Elevated Liver Enzymes ( see WARNINGS ) In clinical trials related to the control of ventricular response in digitalized patients who had atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter , ventricular rate below 50 / min at rest occurred in 15 % of patients and asymptomatic hypotension occurred in 5 % of patients .
The following reactions , reported in 1 . 0 % or less of patients , occurred under conditions ( open trials , marketing experience ) where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , atrioventricular dissociation , chest pain , claudication , myocardial infarction , palpitations , purpura ( vasculitis ) , syncope .
Digestive System : diarrhea , dry mouth , gastrointestinal distress , gingival hyperplasia .
Hemic and Lymphatic : ecchymosis or bruising .
Nervous System : cerebrovascular accident , confusion , equilibrium disorders , extrapyramidal symptoms insomnia , muscle cramps , paresthesia , psychotic symptoms , shakiness , somnolence .
Respiratory : dyspnea .
Skin : arthralgia and rash , exanthema , hair loss , hyperkeratosis , maculae , sweating , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme .
Special Senses : blurred vision , tinnitus .
Urogenital : gynecomastia , impotence , increased urination , spotty menstruation .
Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions The frequency of cardiovascular adverse reactions which require therapy is rare ; hence , experience with their treatment is limited .
Whenever severe hypotension or complete AV block occurs following oral administration of verapamil , the appropriate emergency measures should be applied immediately , e . g . , intravenously administered isoproterenol HCl , levarterenol bitartrate , atropine ( all in the usual doses ) , or calcium gluconate ( 10 % solution ) .
In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , alpha - adrenergic agents ( phenylephrine , metaraminol bitartrate or methoxamine ) should be used to maintain blood pressure , and isoproterenol and levarterenol should be avoided .
If further support is necessary , inotropic agents ( dopamine or dobutamine ) may be administered .
Actual treatment and dosage should depend on the severity and the clinical situation and the judgment and experience of the treating physician .
OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for verapamil overdosage ; treatment should be supportive .
Delayed pharmacodynamic consequences may occur with extended - release formulations , and patients should be observed for at least 48 hours , preferably under continuous hospital care .
Reported effects include hypotension , bradycardia , cardiac conduction defects , arrhythmias , hyperglycemia , and decreased mental status .
In addition , there have been literature reports of non - cardiogenic pulmonary edema in patients taking large overdoses of verapamil ( up to approximately 9 g ) .
In acute overdosage , gastrointestinal decontamination with cathartics and whole bowel irrigation should be considered .
Calcium , inotropes ( i . e . , isoproterenol , dopamine , and glucagon ) , atropine , vasopressors ( i . e . , norepinephrine , and epinephrine ) , and cardiac pacing have been used with variable results to reverse hypotension and myocardial depression .
In a few reported cases , overdose with calcium channel blockers that was initially refractory to atropine became more responsive to this treatment when the patients received large doses ( close to 1 g / hour for more than 24 hours ) of calcium chloride .
Calcium chloride is preferred to calcium gluconate since it provides 3 times more calcium per volume .
Asystole should be handled by the usual measures including cardiopulmonary resuscitation .
Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Essential Hypertension The dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be individualized by titration .
The usual daily dose of extended - release , verapamil hydrochloride capsules , in clinical trials has been 240 mg given by mouth once daily in the morning .
However , initial doses of 120 mg a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil ( e . g . , elderly , small people , etc . ) .
Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated approximately 24 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effects of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules are evident within the first week of therapy .
If adequate response is not obtained with 120 mg of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules , the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner : • 180 mg in the morning .
• 240 mg in the morning .
• 360 mg in the morning .
• 480 mg in the morning .
Verapamil extended - release capsules are for once - a - day administration .
When switching from immediate - release verapamil to verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules , the same total daily dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules can be used .
As with immediate - release verapamil , dosages of verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be individualized and titration may be needed in some patients .
Sprinkling the Capsule Contents on Food Verapamil hydrochloride extended - release bead filled capsules may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the beads on a spoonful of applesauce .
The applesauce should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the beads .
The applesauce used should not be hot , and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing .
Any bead / applesauce mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use .
Subdividing the contents of a verapamil hydrochloride extended - release capsule is not recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED : Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , USP are available containing 120 mg of verapamil hydrochloride , USP .
The 120 mg capsules are hard - shell gelatin capsules with a bluish green opaque cap and white opaque body filled with white to off - white beads .
The capsules are radially printed with MYLAN over 6320 in black ink on both the cap and the body .
They are available as follows : NDC 51079 - 917 - 20 – Unit dose blister packages of 100 ( 10 cards of 10 capsules each ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Brief digressions above 25 ° C while not detrimental , should be avoided .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from light and moisture .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured by : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A . S - 12627 5 / 20 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mg NDC 51079 - 917 - 20 Verapamil HCl Extended - Release Capsules , USP 120 mg 100 Capsules ( 10 x 10 ) Each capsule contains : Verapamil hydrochloride , USP 120 mg Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Brief digressions above 25 ° C while not detrimental , should be avoided .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from light and moisture .
Manufactured by : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Rx only S - 7050 R7 Distributed by : Mylan Institutional Inc .
Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A .
This unit dose package is not child resistant .
For institutional use only .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
This container provides light - resistance .
See window for lot number and expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
