Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Fexofenadine HCI 30 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring .
Warnings Severe Allergy Warning Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • swelling of tongue • trouble swallowing • swelling in or around mouth • trouble speaking • wheezing or problems breathing • drooling • dizziness or loss of consciousness These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for " anaphylaxis " or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use • to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insect stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
• if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • hives that do not itch When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before using • use only with enclosed dosing cup Note : mL = milliliters adults and children 12 years of age and over take 10 mL every 12 hours ; do not take more than 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 5 mL every 12 hours ; do not take more than 10 mL in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 9 mg • safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if foil inner seal on bottle is torn or missing • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients artificial raspberry flavor , butylparaben , edetate disodium , maltitol solution , poloxamer 407 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate , sucralose , titanium dioxide and xanthan gum Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mL Bottle Carton Compare to the active ingredient in Children ' s Allegra ® Hives * NDC 51672 - 2121 - 8 Children ' s Fexofenadine HCI Oral Suspension , 30 mg / 5 mL Antihistamine HIVES NON - DROWSY Berry Flavor Ages 6 Years & Older 12 Hour RELIEF OF ITCHING DUE TO HIVES Dye free / Alcohol free / Sugar free LIQUID Oral Suspension 4 fl .
oz .
( 120 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
