Main ingredient Effective Chlorine 90 - 110 mg / L Properties This product is colorless transparent liquid Categories of microorganism to be killed This product kills the enteric pathogenic bacteria , pyococcus , pathogenic saccharomycetes and common bacteria in nosocomial infection .
Application scope Suitable for disinfecting hygienic hand , Air , Object surface , Fabric , Fruit and vegetable Indication for use 1 .
Disinfection of hand : Spray the original solution once , take effect for 5 minutes .
2 .
Disinfection of air : Spray the original solution once , take effect for 20 minutes .
3 .
Disinfection of fabric : Spray the original solution once , take effect for 5 minutes .
4 .
Disinfection of surface of object : Spray the original solution once , take effect for 5 minutes .
5 .
Disinfection of fruit or vegetable : Spray the original solution , take effect for 5 minutes .
Notices Use by children must be under tutelage of adult .
Keep out of reach of children and abnormal people .
Avoid high temperature or open fire This product is acid substance and avoid using together with alkaline substance .
After the product is opened , the service life is two weeks .
This product is prohibited using together with products containing hydrochloric acid .
Function mechanism HCLO is a kind of strong oxidant and it is decomposed into nascent oxygen which is strong oxidability to makes proteins and other substances of bacteria or virus denatured and play a bactericidal effect .
HCLO infiltrates into the bacteria or virus and oxidizes with organic macromolecules such as protein , nucleic acid and enzyme , and enzymes to kill the pathogenic microorganisms .
The chloride ion generated from HCLO can also significantly change the osmotic pressure of bacteria or virus , making their cells lose viability and die .
Storage Seal and store away from light at cool temperature Shelf life : 24 months Inactive ingredients Water , Sodium chloride , Sodium silicate Purpose Disinfect hand , air , surface of object , fabric , fruit and vegetable Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
