Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Bacitracin Zinc 500 Units Neomycin Sulfate 3 . 5 mg Polymyxin B Sulfate 10 , 000 Units Pramoxine Hydrochloride 10 mg Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Pain reliever Uses : Helps prevent infection in and temporarily relieves pain due to minor : • cuts • scrapes • burns Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • symptoms persist for more than 1 week , or clear up and occur again within a few days • rash or other allergic reaction develops .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions : • Adults and children 2 years and older : • clean affected area • apply a small amount ( equal to the surface area of tip of finger ) on area 1 to 3 times daily .
• may be covered with a sterile bandage .
• Children under 2 years : ask a doctor .
Other information : Store at a controlled room temperature 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) Inactive Ingredient : Petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 833 - BE - WELLY TRIPLE ANTIBIOTIC + PAIN RELIEF & STANDARD BANDAGES Triple Antibiotic Ointment Plus Pain Relief First Aid Kit • Triple Antibiotic + Pain relief ointment to help prevent infection .
• Flexible Fabric bandages included in a few designs to cover cuts and scrapes .
• Durable tin for portability and easy storage .
Product not made with natural rubber latex .
Bandages are sterile unless individual wrapper opened .
Bravery First Aid Kit 1 TUBE - TRIPLE ANTIBIOTIC + PAIN RELIEF 0 . 5 OZ ( 14 g ) 12 BANDAGES - 3 / 4 x 3 IN ( 1 . 9 x 7 . 6 CM ) Distributed by : Welly Health PBC Minneapolis , MN 55402 1 - 833 - BE - WELLY Recycle me !
WellyTM www . GetWelly . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
