Forr IM , IV or SC Use Rx only DESCRIPTION Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile solutionn of 50 mg ephedrine sulfate in Water for Injection .
Ephedrine ooccurs as fine , white , oodorless crystals or powder and darkens on exposure to light .
It is freely soluble in water and sparingly soluble in alcohol .
The chemical name of ephedrine sulfate is ( C10H15NO ) 2 • H2SO4 benzenemethanol α - [ l - ( methylamino ) ethyl ] - sufate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Its molecular weight is 428 . 54 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ephedrine sulfate is a potent sympathomimetic that stimulates both α and β receptors and has clinical uses related to both actions .
Its peripheral actions , which it owes in part to the release of norepinephrine , simulate responses that are obtained when adrenegenic nerves are stimulated .
These include an increase in blood pressure , stimulation of heart muscle , constriction of arterioles , relaxation of the smooth muscle of the bronchi and gastrointestinal tract , and dilation of the pupils .
In the bladder , relaxation of the detrusor muscle is not prominent , but the tone of the trigone and vesicle sphincter is increased .
Ephedrine sulfate also has a potent effect on the CNS .
It stimulates the cerebral cortex and sub - cortical centers , which accounts for its use in narcolepsy .
The cardiovascular responses reported in man include moderate tachycardia , unchanged or augmened stroke volume , enhanced cardiac output , variable alterations in peripheral resistance and usually a rise in blood pressure .
The action of ephedrine is more prominent on the heart than on the blood vessels .
Ephedrine sulfate increases the flow of coronary , cerebral and muscle blood .
In patients with myasthenia gravis , administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP produces a real but modest increase in motor power .
The exact mechanism by which ephedrine sulfate affects skeletal muscle contractions is unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ephedrine Sulfate Injectionn , USP is indicated in the treatment of allergic disorders , such as bronchial asthma The drug has long been used as a pressor agent , particularly during spinal anesthesia when hypotensionn frequently ooccurs .
In Stokes - Adams syndromeme with complete heart block , ephedrine has a value similar to that of epinephrine .
It is indicated as a central nervous system stimulant in narcolepsy and depressive states .
It is also used in myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to ephedrine sulfate are rare .
The hypersensitivity , if known , is a specific contraindication .
Patients hypersensitive to other sympathomimetics may also be hypersensitive to ephedrine sulfate .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL - Special care should be used when administering Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP to patients with heart disease , angina pectoris , diabetes , hyperthyroidism , prostatic hypertrophy or hypertension and to patients receiving digitalis .
Prolonged use may produce a syndrome resembling an anxiety state .
Tolerance to ephedrine sulfate may develop , but temporary discontinuance to the drug restores its original effectiveness .
DRUG INTERACTIONS - Concurrent use of ephedrine sulfate with general anesthetics , especially cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbons or digitalis glycosides may cause cardiac arrhythmias , since these medications may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of ephedrine sulfate .
Therapeutic doses of ephedrine sulfate can inhibit the hypotensive effect of guanethidine , bethanidine , and debrisoquin by displacing the adrenergic blockers from their site of action in the sympathetic neurons .
The effect in man is seen as a relative or a complete blockade of the antihypertensive drug by a sudden rise in blood pressure .
Concomitant use of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP and oxytocics may cause severe hypotension .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may potentiate the pressor effect of ephedrine sulfate , possibly resulting in a hypertensive crisis .
Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP should not be administered during or within 14 days following the administration of MAO inhibitors .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C - Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP .
Also , it is not known whether the drug can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
It is not known what effect Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP may have on the newborn or on the child ' s later growth and development when the drug is administered to the mother just before or during labor .
NURSING MOTHERS - Ephedrine sulfate is excreted in breast milk .
Use by nursing mothers is not recommended because of the higher than usual risks for infants .
ADVERSE REACTIONS With large doses of ephedrine sulfate most patients will experience nervousness , insomnia , vertigo , headache , tachycardia , palpitation and sweating .
Some patients have nausea , vomiting and anorexia .
Vesical sphincter spasm may occur and result in difficult and painful urination .
Urinary retention may develop in males with prostatism .
Primordial pain and cardiac arrhythmias may occur following administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Prolonged abuse of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP can lead to symptoms of paranoid schizophrenia .
When this occurs , patients exhibit such physical signs as tachycardia , poor nutrition and hygiene , fever , cold sweat and dilated pupils .
Some measure of tolerance may develop with prolonged or excessive use but addiction does not occur .
Temporary cessation of medication and subsequent readministration restores its effectiveness .
OVERDOSAGE SYMPTOMS - The principal manifestation of ephedrine sulfate poisoning is convulsions .
In acute poisoning the following signs and symptoms may occur : nausea , vomiting , chills , cyanosis , irritability , nervousness , fever , suicidal behavior , tachycardia , dilated pupils , blurred vision , opisthotonos , spasms , convulsions , pulmonary edema , gasping respirations , coma and respiratory failure .
Initially , the patient may have hypertension , followed later by hypotension accompanied by anuria .
TREATMENT - If respirations are shallow or cyanosis is present , artificial respiration should be administered .
Vasopressors are contraindicated .
In cardiovascular collapse blood pressure should be maintained .
ANTIDOTE - For hypertension , 5 mg phentolamine mesylate diluted in saline may be administered slowly intravenously , or 100 mg may be given orally .
Convulsions may be controlled by diazepam or paraldehyde .
Cool applications and dexamethasone 1 mg / kg , administered slowly intravenously , may control pyrexia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS - T he usual parenteral dose is 25 to 50 mg given subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Intravenously , 5 to 25 mg may be administered slowly , repeated in 5 to 10 minutes , if necessary .
CHILDREN - The usual subcutaneous or intramuscular dose is 0 . 5 mg / kg of body weight or 16 . 7 mg / square meter of body surface every 4 to 6 hours .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Ephedrine Sulfate Injection USP , 50 mg / mL 1 mL vial in packs of 10 , NDC 14789 - 014 - 01 STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Principal Display Panel - Carton Label NEXUS PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
10 x 2 mL Vials NDC 14789 - 014 - 01 Ephedrine Sulfate Injection , USP 50 mg / mL 1 mL fill in a 2 mL Vial Single Dose Vial Preservative Free For subcutaneous , intramuscular or intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
