1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ecoza ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % , is indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum in patients 12 years of age and older .
Ecoza is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum in patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is for topical use only .
Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Ecoza topical foam , 1 % should be applied to cover affected areas once daily for 4 weeks .
• For topical use only ; not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Apply once daily for 4 weeks .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Foam , 1 % .
Each gram of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % , contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate in a white to off - white foam .
Foam , 1 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Contents are flammable .
Instruct the patient to avoid heat , flame , and / or smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Flammability Ecoza topical foam is flammable .
Avoid heat , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) even when empty .
Do not store in direct sunlight .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Ecoza topical foam , the most common adverse reactions were application site reactions which occurred in less than 1 % of subjects in both the Ecoza and vehicle arms .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Quinnova Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 660 - 6263 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials , 495 subjects were exposed to Ecoza topical foam or vehicle ( 246 subjects were exposed to Ecoza topical foam , 1 % and 249 were exposed to vehicle ) .
Subjects with interdigital tinea pedis applied foam or vehicle once daily for approximately 28 days .
During clinical trials with Ecoza topical foam , the most common adverse reactions were application site reactions which occurred in less than 1 % of subjects in both the Ecoza and vehicle arms .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Warfarin Concomitant administration of econazole and warfarin has resulted in enhancement of anticoagulant effect .
Most cases reported product application with use under occlusion , genital application , or application to a large body surface area which may increase the systemic absorption of econazole nitrate .
Monitoring of International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) and / or prothrombin time may be indicated especially for patients who apply econazole to large body surface areas , in the genital area , or under occlusion .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled trials with Ecoza topical foam in pregnant women .
Ecoza topical foam should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Econazole nitrate has not been shown to be teratogenic when administered orally to mice , rabbits or rats .
Fetotoxic or embryotoxic effects were observed in Segment I oral studies with rats receiving 10 to 40 times the human dermal dose .
Similar effects were observed in Segment II or Segment III studies with mice , rabbits and / or rats receiving oral doses 80 or 40 times the human dermal dose .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether econazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when econazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Following oral administration of econazole nitrate to lactating rats , econazole and / or metabolites were excreted in milk and were found in nursing pups .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Of the 173 subjects treated with Ecoza topical foam , 1 % in the clinical trials , 2 subjects were 12 to 17 years old .
In a pediatric maximal use trial , Ecoza topical foam , 1 % was applied once daily to eighteen subjects aged 12 to 17 years with interdigital tinea pedis for 28 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The safety findings for subjects 12 to 17 years were similar to those in adult population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 173 subjects treated with Ecoza topical foam , 1 % in the adult clinical trials , 6 subjects were 65 years or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Ecoza ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % contains the azole antifungal agent , econazole nitrate in an oil - in - water emulsion base consisting of the following inactive ingredients : dimethicone , glycerin , polysorbate 20 , povidone , propylene glycol , stearic acid , trolamine , purified water and butane as a propellant .
Each gram of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate , USP , in a white to off - white foam .
Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is alcohol ( ethanol ) - free and for topical use only .
Chemically , econazole nitrate is 1 - [ 2 - { ( 4 - chloro - phenyl ) methoxy } - 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - imidazole mononitrate .
Econazole nitrate has the molecular formula C 18 H 15 Cl 3 N 2 O .
HNO 3 and a molecular weight of 444 . 70 .
Its molecular structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ecoza topical foam is an azole antifungal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % have not been established .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic absorption of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % following topical application was studied in one clinical trial in adults and one clinical study in pediatric subjects .
In the adult trial , 19 subjects ( male and female ) with tinea pedis applied Ecoza topical foam , 1 % once daily for 29 days .
Subjects applied a mean daily amount of 2 . 4 g of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % to soles , toes , interdigital spaces and tops of both feet up to the ankles .
Blood samples were obtained on Day 29 at pre - dose and 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , and 12 hours after application .
Results ( mean ± SD ) showed the time to reach peak plasma concentrations ( T max ) was 6 . 8 ± 5 . 1 h with maximum concentration ( C max ) of 417 ± 218 pg / ml .
The area under the concentration time curve for the first 12 hours post application on Day 29 ( AUC ( 0 - 12 ) ) was 3440 ± 1920 pg - h / ml .
In the pediatric trial , 18 subjects ( male and female ages 12 - 17 ) with interdigital tinea pedis and positive fungal cultures were treated with Ecoza topical foam , 1 % once daily for 4 weeks .
Subjects applied a mean daily amount of 3 . 2 g of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % to soles , toes , interdigital spaces and tops of both feet up to the ankles .
Blood samples were obtained on Day 28 at pre - dose and 7 h and 11 h post - dose .
The mean ± SD econazole plasma concentration was 397 ± 289 , 534 ± 745 and 575 ± 638 pg / mL at pre - dose and 7 h and 11 h post - dose , respectively .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Econazole nitrate , an azole antifungal agent , inhibits fungal cytochrome P - 450 - mediated 14 alpha - lanosterol demethylase enzyme .
This enzyme functions to convert lanosterol to ergosterol .
The accumulation of 14 alpha - methyl sterols correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol in the fungal cell wall and may be responsible for the fungistatic activity of econazole .
Mammalian cell demethylation is less sensitive to econazole inhibition .
Activity in vitro and in clinical infections Econazole nitrate has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Trichophyton rubrum Epidermophyton floccosum Trichophyton mentagrophytes 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to determine the carcinogenic potential of Ecoza topical foam have not been performed .
Oral administration of econazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two multi - center , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials a total of 505 subjects with interdigital tinea pedis were randomized 1 : 1 to Ecoza topical foam or vehicle ; subjects applied the assigned medication once daily for 4 weeks .
The severity of erythema , scaling , fissuring , maceration , vesiculation , and pruritus were graded using a 4 - point scale ( none , mild , moderate , severe ) .
Subjects had KOH examination and fungal cultures taken to confirm eligibility .
A total of 339 subjects with positive fungal cultures were evaluated for efficacy .
Efficacy was evaluated on Day 43 , 2 weeks post - treatment with treatment success being defined as complete cure ( negative KOH and fungal culture and no evidence of clinical disease ) .
The study population ranged in age from 12 to 71 years with 5 subjects less than 18 years of age at baseline .
The subjects were 71 % male and 51 % Caucasian .
Table 1 presents the efficacy results for each trial .
Table 1 : Efficacy Results at Two Weeks Post - treatment ( Day 43 ) Complete Cure , Effective Treatment and Mycological Cure Trial 1 Trial 2 Ecoza topical foam , 1 % N = 82 n ( % ) Foam Vehicle N = 83 n ( % ) Ecoza topical foam , 1 % N = 91 n ( % ) Foam Vehicle N = 83 n ( % ) Complete cure [ 1 ] 19 ( 23 . 2 % ) 2 ( 2 . 4 % ) 23 ( 25 . 3 % ) 4 ( 4 . 8 % ) Effective treatment [ 2 ] 40 ( 48 . 8 % ) 9 ( 10 . 8 % ) 44 ( 48 . 4 % ) 9 ( 10 . 8 % ) Mycological cure [ 3 ] 56 ( 68 . 3 % ) 13 ( 15 . 7 % ) 61 ( 67 . 0 % ) 15 ( 18 . 1 % ) [ 1 ] Mycological cure and an absence of clinical signs and symptoms ( erythema , scaling , fissuring , maceration , vesiculation , or pruritus ) .
[ 2 ] Mycological cure and no or mild erythema and / or scaling with all other signs and symptoms absent .
[ 3 ] Negative KOH and fungal culture .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is white to off - white foam supplied in 10 g ( NDC 23710 - 100 - 10 ) and 70 g ( NDC 23710 - 100 - 75 ) aluminum pressurized canister .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or freeze .
Ecoza topical foam is flammable .
Avoid heat , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture and / or incinerate the containers .
Do not expose containers to heat and / or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) even when empty .
Do not store in direct sunlight .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) The patient should be instructed as follows : • Inform patients that Ecoza ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % is for topical use only .
Ecoza ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % is not intended for oral , intravaginal , or ophthalmic use .
• Ecoza topical foam , 1 % is flammable ; avoid heat , flame , and smoking during and immediately following application .
• If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation develops with the use of Ecoza topical foam , 1 % , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Manufactured in the USA for Exeltis USA Dermatology , LLC Florham Park , NJ 07932 PRODERM TECHNOLOGY ® U . S , Patent 5 , 993 , 830 1007501 - 02 Issued : 07 / 2016 Patient Information ECOZA ® ( ee - ko - zah ) ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % Important information : Ecoza topical foam is for use on skin only .
Do not use Ecoza topical foam in your eyes or vagina .
What is Ecoza topical foam ? Ecoza topical foam is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat athlete ' s foot that is between the toes ( interdigital tinea pedis ) in people 12 years of age and older .
What should I tell my doctor before using Ecoza topical foam ? Before using Ecoza topical foam , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Ecoza topical foam will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Ecoza topical foam passes into your breast milk .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use Ecoza topical foam ? See the detailed Instructions for Use for information about how to use Ecoza topical foam .
• Use Ecoza topical foam exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks .
• If Ecoza topical foam gets in or near your eyes , rinse them well with water .
• Wash your hands after you apply Ecoza topical foam .
What should I avoid while using Ecoza topical foam ?
• Ecoza topical foam is flammable .
Avoid heat , flame and smoking while applying and right after you apply Ecoza topical foam to your skin .
What are the possible side effects of Ecoza topical foam ? Ecoza topical foam may cause skin reactions at the treatment site .
Tell your doctor if you have any skin reactions on the areas of your skin treated with Ecoza topical foam .
These are not all the possible side effects of Ecoza topical foam .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Ecoza topical foam ?
• Store Ecoza topical foam at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not refrigerate or freeze Ecoza topical foam .
• Do not store Ecoza topical foam in direct sunlight .
• Ecoza topical foam is flammable .
Keep the Ecoza topical foam canister away from heat and temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) , even if the canister is empty .
• Do not puncture or burn the Ecoza topical foam canister .
Keep Ecoza topical foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Ecoza topical foamMedicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Ecoza topical foam that is written for health professionals .
Do not use Ecoza topical foam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Ecoza topical foam to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
What are the ingredients in Ecoza topical foam ? Active ingredient : econazole nitrate USP Inactive Ingredients : dimethicone , glycerin , polysorbate 20 , povidone , propylene glycol , stearic acid , trolamine , purified water and butane as a propellant .
Manufactured for Exeltis USA Dermatology , LLC Florham Park , NJ 07932 For more information call Exeltis USA , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 07 / 2016 1007501 - 02 Instructions for Use ECOZA ® ( ee - ko - zah ) ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % Important information : Ecoza topical foam is for use on skin only . Do not use Ecoza topical foam in your eyes or vagina .
Parts of Ecoza topical foam Canister .
( See Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A How to apply Ecoza topical foam : Step 1 : Before you apply Ecoza topical foam , shake the Ecoza topical foam canister for about 5 seconds .
Step 2 : Remove the cap and turn the Ecoza topical foam canister upside down over the palm of your hand .
Step 3 : Press down firmly on the actuator until there is a small amount of foam about the size of a golf ball in the palm of your hand .
( See Figures B and C ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Figure C Step 4 : Use your finger - tips to scoop up small amounts of Ecoza topical foam and apply to the affected skin areas on your feet .
Gently rub the foam into the skin .
( See Figure D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 5 : You should apply Ecoza topical foam to your toes , to the spaces between your toes , and to the surrounding areas 1 time a day for 4 weeks or as prescribed by your doctor .
Step 6 : Replace the cap .
Wash your hands after applying Ecoza topical foam .
How should I store Ecoza topical foam ?
• Store Ecoza topical foam at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not refrigerate or freeze Ecoza topical foam .
• Do not store Ecoza topical foam in direct sunlight .
• Ecoza topical foam is flammable .
Keep the Ecoza topical foam canister away from heat and temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) , even if the canister is empty .
• Do not puncture or burn the Ecoza topical foam canister .
Keep Ecoza topical foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for Exeltis USA Dermatology , LLC Florham Park , NJ 07932 Issued : 07 / 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 g Canister Label NDC 23710 - 100 - 70 ecoza ™ ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % For Topical Use Only Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Rx Only Net Wt 70 g Exeltis Rethinking healthcare [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 70 g Canister Carton NDC 23710 - 100 - 70 ecoza ™ ( econazole nitrate ) topical foam , 1 % For Topical Use Only Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Rx Only Net Wt 70 g Exeltis Rethinking healthcare [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
