Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Acetaminophen 160 mg Purpose Pain reliever - Fever reducer Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to : • the common cold • flu • headache • sore throat • toothache Temporarily reduces fever Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes : • more than 5 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen Allergy alert : acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
Do not use • with any other product containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist • if your child is allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if your child has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if your child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product , do not exceed recommended dose ( see overdose warning ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or last for more than 5 days • fever gets worse or last for more than 3 days • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • find right dose on chart .
If possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise , use age • mL = milliliter • if needed , repeat dose every 4 hours • do not use more than 5 doses in 24 hours • use enclosed dosing cup only .
Do not use any other device Weight Age Dose under 24 lbs Under 2 years ask a doctor 24 to 35 lbs 2 to 3 years 5 mL 36 to 47 lbs 4 to 5 years 7 . 5 mL 48 to 59 lbs 6 to 8 years 10 mL 60 to 71 lbs 9 to 10 years 12 . 5 mL 72 to 95 lbs 11 years 15 mL Inactive ingredients artificial flavour , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Potassium sorbate , Citric Acid Monohydrate , Sorbitol , Propylene glycol , Sucralose , Povidone K30 , Glycerin , FD & C Red # 40 , D & C Red # 33 & Purified water .
Other information • TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use this product if inner foil seal over mouth of the bottle is cut , torn , broken , or missing .
• store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • this product is not the same concentration as Infants ' Drops .
For accurate dosing , follow the dosing instructions on this label .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 866 - 826 - 1306 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Fast , Effective Relief of Children ' s Fever and Pain • Alcohol Free • Aspirin Free • Cherry Flavor DOSAGE CUP ENCLOSED COMPARE TO the active ingredient of TYLENOL ® * LIQUID TAMPER EVIDENT Child - Resistant Safety Cap Unbreakable Bottle * Delsam Pharma Llc is not affiliated with the owner of the registered trademark Tylenol ® Distributed by Delsam Pharma Llc Bronx , Newyork 10467 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
