ACTIVE INGREDIENT Benzalkonium chloride , 0 . 13 % PURPOSE Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment ; Topical Antiseptic USES • Treat cold sores / fever blisters • Help guard against infection WARNINGS For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any ingredient in the product • more than 3 times per day • longer than one week unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition persists or worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days Ask a doctor if • used to treat deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns • you are pregnant or nursing a baby When using this product you may feel a brief stinging sensation when applying it .
The sting should go away in a short time .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Adults and children over 2 years of age : • Clean the lip area of any lip preparations , lotions , ointments , residual beverages , or cosmetics including lipstick using warm water and a washcloth • Remove the cardboard top from applicator and place onto the glass / plastic vial end - opposite the brush end of the product • Squeeze the cardboard to break the inner glass vial open • Saturate the applicator end with solution by holding the brush end down and squeezing the container until you can see liquid on the brush applicator • For best results , massage the solution into the cold sore by rubbing .
Rub firmly , but take care not to damage the tissue .
The purpose of the rubbing is to deliver the drug to the infection site .
Hold the vial so the solution flows to the sore .
• To treat most cold sores , usually one treatment is enough .
• If your symptoms go away and then return later , apply another dose .
• Do not use more than 3 times per day • Discard after use .
Children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION • Store at room temperature : 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • The ingredients in toothpaste , softdrinks , and some fruit juices can de - activate the active ingredient .
For best results , avoid brushing your teeth with toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for one hour after applying .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS isopropyl alcohol ( 70 % v / v ) , water PACKAGE INFORMATION - TRIFOLD INNER HERPES IS HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS .
A well - intentioned kiss can transfer the virus to another individual .
Children are highly at risk .
After touching a cold sore : • Wash your hands immediately with warm water and soap • Do not touch your eyes • Do not touch your genitals or other parts of the body .
It is possible to transfer the virus to other parts of the body ( autoinoculation ) .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE 1 .
CLEAN IT Prior to treatment , clean the area to be treated preferably with a washcloth and warm water .
A dry wipe may be sufficient .
Do not use soap or other cleansers .
2 .
BREAK IT Remove paper cap from vial , exposing applicator tip .
Replace cap on other end of vial , leaving applicator tip exposed .
Firmly pinch center of vial , close to edge of paper cap , until inner ampoule breaks .
Hold with the white applicator tip down , allowing medication to saturate the applicator .
If necessary : pinch vial gently until a drop of medication appears .
3 .
RUB IT The key is to rub on the sore and the surrounding area .
Gently dabbing is not effective .
Do not rub so hard that you cause damage to the skin .
Keep the applicator saturated at all times .
If necessary , pause and hold the vial to allow more medication to flow into the applicator tip .
Use all the medication in the vial .
Dispose of when finished , recap the vial and dispose of immediately .
Do not disassemble ; keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE INFORMATION - TRIFOLD OUTER CVS pharmacy NEW !
NDC 50730 - 2001 - 1 Compare to VIROXYN ® COLD SORE TREATMENT SINGLE APPLICATION * Cold sore / fever blister treatment and topical antiseptic * Unique patented applicator eliminates the need to touch the sore with your fingers * Instrucciones en espanol incluido Contains 1 vial ( 0 . 6 mL ) 1 Vial per treatment CVS Quality Money Back Guarantee US Patent No ' s 6 , 211 , 243B1 and 6 , 322 , 243 and 6 , 410 , 599 and 6 , 414 , 032 and 6 , 423 , 750 and 6 , 759 , 434 CVS / Pharmacy single application cold sore treatment uses a patented new approach to treating cold sores - rubbing the cold sore with the applicator tip delivers the germicidal medicine directly to the site of the infection .
Cold Sores and Fever Blisters are both caused by the Herpes Simples virus ( typically HSV - 1 ) and are just different popular names for the HSV - caused lesions .
Occasionally an additional treatment may be required .
In some people , a lesion may appear to start healing and recur a day or more later .
This will require an additional treatment .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2009 CVS / pharmacy www . cvs . com 1 - 800 - shop - CVS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
