Drug Facts Active Ingredient Clotrimazole USP 1 % ( w / w ) Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product aovid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improverment within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot or ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot , pay special sttention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition persists longer , ask a doctor • this prodcut is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • Store at room temprature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° ) .
Close cap tightly after use .
Inactive Ingredients ceteth 20 , cetyl alcohol , methylparaben , mineral oil , petrolatum , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 877 - 255 - 6999 .
Akron Pharma Manufactured for : Akron Pharma , Inc .
Fairfiled , NJ 07004 www . akronpharma . com * This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Lotrimin ® .
Akron Pharma NDC 71399 - 0501 - 1 * Compare to the active ingredients in Lotrimin ® AF Cures Most Athlete ' s Foot Clotrimazole USP , 1 % Antifungal Cream Relieves Itching , Burning , Cracking & Scaling Made in the USA NET WT .
1 oz ( 15 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
