DENTA GEL 1 . 1 % SODIUM FLUORIDE BRUSH - ON GEL DESCRIPTION : Self - topical neutral fluoride gel containing 1 . 1 % ( w / v ) sodium fluoride for use as a dental caries preventative in pediatric patients and adults .
This prescription product is not a dentifrice .
Active Ingredient : Sodium Fluoride 1 . 1 % ( w / v ) .
Inactive Ingredients : Water ( purified ) , Sorbitol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Flavor , Poloxamer 407 , Sodium Saccharin , Methylparaben , Proplyparaben , FD & C Blue No . 1 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Frequent topical applications to the teeth with preparations having a relatively high fluoride content increase tooth resistance to acid dissolution and enhance penetration of the fluoride ion into tooth enamel .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : A dental caries preventive ; for once daily self - applied topical use .
It is well established that 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators . 1 - 4 DentaGel 1 . 1 % Brush - On Gel in a squeeze - tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush as well as a mouthpiece tray .
This prescription dental gel should be used once daily following use of a regular toothpaste unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional .
May be used whether or not drinking water is fluoridated , since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis .
( See WARNINGS for exception . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Do not use in pediatric patients under age 6 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
WARNINGS : Prolonged daily ingestion may result in various degrees of dental fluorosis in pediatric patients under age 6 years , especially if the water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm , since younger pediatric patients frequently cannot perform the brushing process without significant swallowing .
Use in pediatric patients under age 6 years requires special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of gel , which could cause dental fluorosis .
Read directions carefully before using .
Keep out of reach of infants and children .
PRECAUTIONS : Not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats , males or females , treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological data provide no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water , and risk of human cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shown that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those to which humans are exposed .
In vivo data are conflicting .
Some studies report chromosome damage in rodents , while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans has not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category B .
It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis , which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when products containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use : The use of DentaGel 1 . 1 % Brush - On Gel in pediatric age groups 6 to 16 years as a caries preventive is supported by pioneering clinical studies with 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride gels in mouth trays in students age 11 - 14 years conducted by Englander et al . 2 , 3 , 4 Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Please refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis , and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , give calcium ( e . g . , milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . , more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , induce vomiting , give orally soluble calcium ( e . g . , milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . , more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( a thin ribbon ) of DentaGel 1 . 1 % Brush - On gel contains 2 mg fluoride .
A 2 oz .
tube contains 255 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional : • Adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age or older , apply a thin ribbon of gel to the teeth with a toothbrush or mouth trays once daily for at least one minute , preferably at bedtime .
• After use , adults expectorate gel .
For best results , do not eat , drink , or rinse for 30 minutes .
Pediatric patients , ages 6 - 16 , expectorate gel after use and rinse mouth thoroughly .
Rx only HOW SUPPLIED : Fresh Mint 2 oz .
( 56 g ) net wt .
plastic tube NDC # 64980 - 307 - 60 .
STORAGE : Store at Controlled Room Temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
REFERENCES : • American Dental Association , Council on Dental Therapeutics , Fluoride compounds , In : Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed .
40 , Chicago , ADA , 405 - 407 ( 1984 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , Clinical Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , JADA , 75 , 638 - 644 ( 1967 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , Residual Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , JADA 78 , 783 - 787 ( 1969 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , Incremental Rates of Dental Caries After Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications in Children with Lifelong Consumption of Fluoridated Water , JADA 82 , 354 - 358 ( 1971 ) .
Distributed by : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Manufactured by : Sheffield Pharmaceuticals , LLC Saddle Brook , NJ 07663 New London , CT 06320 Revision Date : 9 / 18 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 g Tube Rising NDC 64980 - 307 - 60 DentaGel1 . 1 % 1 . 1 % SODIUM FLUORIDE PRESCRIPTION GEL Brush - on Gel ( non - abrasive formula ) Fresh Mint NET WT .
2 OZ .
( 56 g ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
