[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active Ingredient Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 7 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use ■ on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product ■ keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Sun protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sun glasses .
• Children under 6 months ; Ask a doctor .
Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• May stain some fabrics .
Inactive Ingredients water , isopropyl lauroyl sarcosinate , glycerin , dimethicone , diisopropyl sebacate , polymethyl methacrylate , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , sucrose tristearate , silica , pentylene glycol , polysorbate 61 , dimethiconol , sodium stearoyl glutamate , phenoxyethanol , caprylyl glycol , tocopheryl acetate , glycyrrhetinic acid , panthenol , triethanolamine , allantoin , carbomer , potassium sorbate , zinc gluconate , xanthan gum , disodium EDTA , hydroxypalmitoyl sphinganine Questions ?
1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 Distributed by Alchemee LLC Santa Monica , CA 90401 Made in Canada of foreign and domestic components Proactiv is a trademark of The Proactiv Company Sàrl .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 ML Tube Box [ MULTIMEDIA ] proactiv ® CLEAR SKIN SPF 30 Broad - spectrum SPF30 sunscreen 1 . 5 FL OZ 45 ML
