Drug facts Active Ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 25 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • Arthritis • Simple backache • Muscle strains • Bruises • Sprains Warnings For external use only When using this product • Use only as directed • Do not bandage tightly or cover treated area • Do not use with heating pad • Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • Do not apply to wounds , damaged , broken or irritated skin • Do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight • If using before exercise , showering or swimming , apply , wait 30 minutes , then wash off before participating • A temporary burning sensation and / or redness may occur upon application .
This is normal and generally stops after a few days of use Stop use and ask a doctor if • Severe burning sensation occurs • You experience difficulty breathing or swallowing • Condition worsens • Redness persists , spreads or becomes tender • Irritation develops • Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults over 18 years : • Apply to affected area using roller ball until visibly moist • Allow to dry • Repeat application , as needed , every 12 to 24 hours • Do not use more than a twice a day • Wash hands with soap and water after each application • May take several days to reach full effect Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Diethylene Glycol Monoethyl Ether , Hyaluronate Sodium , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , Water Questions Call 855 - 438 - 3944 Distributed by Vizuri Consumer Healthcare Fairfax , VA 22033 U . S . A . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 mL Bottle Carton Vizuri PAIN BLOC ® 24 24 HOURS OF ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEF * CAPSAICIN Capsaicin 0 . 25 % Topical Analgesic • MAX DOSE WITHOUT A PRESCRIPTION • ODOR FREE † Arthritis Foundation ® Let ' s get a grip on arthritis .
0 . 5 fl oz ( 14 mL ) NDC : 71226 - 001 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
