Drug Facts Active Ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 4 . 6 % Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply • After 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua / Eau ) , Propylene Glycol , Glyceryl Sterate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Caprylic / Capric triglyceride , STearic Acid , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Sodium Hyaluronate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Allantoin , Panthenol , Sodium PCA , Ceramide 2 , Acrylates / C - 10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Triethanolamine , Disodium EDTA , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Chlorphenesin Hydra Day SPF 20 Water - based Sunscreen A multi - tasking moisturizer to guard against environmental damage .
Provide luxurious hydration , and give skin a silky finish for flawless makeup application .
Fortified with 3 LAB ' s exclusive proprietary complex .
a synergistic blend of powerful natural polyphenol antioxidants , and advanced moisturizers : it acts as a superior anti - aging product , with broad - spectrum sunscreen protection .
Light , luminous and quickly absorbed .
Just Perfect !
3 LAB Hydra Day SPF 20 BROAD SPECTRUM Water - based Sunscreen NET WT .
2 OZ .
/ 60 mL e Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
