Active Ingredients Methyl Salicylate 14 . 0 % .............. Menthol 7 . 0 % ............................. Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily receives the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : - simple backache - anthrics - strains - oruises - screms Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert : If proris to allergic reaction to aspirin or salicylate , please consult a physician before use .
Do not use - on wounds or damaged skin - with a heating pad - on a child under 12 years of age with artricithtice conditions .
Ask a physician before use if you have rechess over the affected area .
When using this product - avoid contact with eyes cremuccus remembranes - do not bandage highly .
Stop use and ask a physician if - condition worsons of symptoms persist for more than 7 days - symptons clear up and occur again within a few days - excessive skin irritation occurs .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Use only as directed - Adults and children over 12 years of ager .
apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
- children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other information Store at 20 degree to 25 degree Centigrade ( 68 degree to 77 degree F ) .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Glyceryl Stearate , Butylene Glycol , Glycerin , Polysorbate 80 , Stearic Acid , Bezenyl Alcohol , dimethyl bullione ( MSW ) , gluccsarmine silica , chondroitin sulfate , amica montena extract , allantain , caprylyl glycol , acrylated 10 - 80 alvon acrylate copolymer , smincernellyl proprol , phenoxyethanol , disodium EDTA .
Ageless Pain Relief when applied topically provides temporary relef from joint pain associated with arthrits .
Non - Allergenic Non - Sensinizing Non - Greasy , Stainless No Added Fragrance Quick Absorption Move Freely Ageless Pain Relief is a safe and effective non - narcotic topical pain relieving cream that can add in a wide variety of pain conditions including targeted .
long - lastings relief from : - Joint pain - Muscle Pain - Simple Backache - Strains - Bruises exclusively formulated for and distributed by : Isagenix International , LLC 2225 S . Price Rd . , Chandier . AZ 85286 3900956762 - 00 Item # 20056 REJUVITY ISAGENIX Ageless Pain Relief CREAM A Menthol and methyl salicylate pain relieving cream with a Triple Combo Blend of natural ingredients : MSM , Glucosaming and Chondroitin .
Deep Penetrating Topical Analgesic 2 OZ LA12 EXP07 / 2012 exclusively formulated for and distributed by : Isagenix International , LLC 2225 S . Price Rd . , Chandier . AZ 85286 3900956762 - 00 Item # 20056 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
