INTELLIGENT BEAUTY LABS Age Defying Day Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 20 Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 4 . 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) .
Decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Use a water to resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a .
m - 2 p .
m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Propylene Glycol , Glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Stearic Acid , Allantoin , Ceramide 2 , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Panthenol , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Sodium PCA , Sodium Hyaluronate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Triethanolamine , Caprylyl Glycol , Chlorphenesin , Disodium EDTA , Phenoxyethanol .
Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sunlight .
Questions ?
1 - 866 - 808 - 1283 Age Defying Day Cream with Broad Spectrum SPF 20 is a multitasking anti - aging formula featuring a rich blend of nourishing antioxidants and broad - spectrum sun protection .
This dynamic set of ingredients promotes healthy skin renewal and protection from environmental elements , while hydra - shield complex locks in moisture to help restore skin ' s elasticity and radiance .
Skin is left appearing richly moisturized , protected and bursting with youthful radiance and vitality .
Distributed by Intelligent Beauty Labs Manhattan Beach , CA 90245 - 4967 www . intelligentbeautylabs . com - Made in USA INTELLIGENT BEAUTY / LABS Age Defying Day Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 20 58 ML / 2 FL OZ INTELLIGENT BEAUTY LABS Age Defying Day Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 20 58 ml ( 24559 - 001 - 00 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
