Active Ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 5 mg Guaifenesin , 100 mg Phenylephrine HCl , 2 . 5 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses ■ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive ■ temporarily relieves : ■ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants ■ the intensity of coughing ■ the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep ■ nasal congestion due to a cold ■ stuffy nose Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor if your child has ■ heart disease ■ high blood pressure ■ thyroid disease ■ diabetes ■ cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) ■ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if your child is taking any other decongestant or stimulant .
When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage ( see overdose warning ) Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur ■ symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever ■ cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions ■ this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use ■ do not give more than 6 times in 24 hours ■ give the recommended number of vials below following the instructions under “ Easy to Use ” on the side panel .
■ empty all liquid in each Single - Use Vial when dosing ■ use the chart below to confirm the dose Dosing chart Age ( years ) Dose ( mL ) under 4 years Do not use 4 to 5 years 1 Single - Use Vial ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours .
Do not give more than 6 times in 24 hours 6 to 11 years 2 Single - Use Vials ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours .
Do not give more than 6 times in 24 hours Other information ■ each Single - Use vial contains 5 mg of sodium ■ store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ■ tamper - evident : do not use if the top flap of the box is open .
Do not use if any vial is open or broken .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , edetate disodium , glycerin , mixed berry flavor , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium metabisulfite , sorbitol , sucralose , trisodium citrate , xanthan gum .
Questions or Comments ?
941 - 202 - 3270 or visit www . DrKids . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
