Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 9 / 2021 Contraindications ( 4 ) 9 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 9 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 10 % Dextrose Injection is indicated as source of water and calories .
Dextrose Injection is indicated as a source of water and calories .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Only for intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation , administration , dosing considerations and instructions for use .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • 10 % Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous use .
• Peripheral administration of 5 % dextrose is generally acceptable , however , consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of at least 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Do not administer 10 % Dextrose Injection simultaneously with blood products through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
• To prevent air embolism , use a non - vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set , avoid multiple connections , do not connect flexible containers in series , fully evacuate residual gas in the container prior to administration , do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates , and if administration is controlled by a pumping device , turn off pump before the container runs dry .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect the diluted dextrose solution for particulate matter .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
• Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of parenteral solutions , where possible .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The choice of dextrose concentration , rate and volume depends on the age , weight , clinical and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy .
Electrolyte supplementation may be indicated according to the clinical needs of the patient .
The administration rate should be governed , especially for premature infants with low birth weight , during the first few days of therapy , by the patient ' s tolerance to dextrose .
Increase the infusion rate gradually as indicated by frequent monitoring of blood glucose concentrations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Prior to administration , visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration .
The intact port caps provides visual tamper evidence .
Do not use if a port cap is prematurely removed .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
To Open • Place the solution container on a clean , flat surface .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
To Add Medication • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Insert needle ( 18 to 23 gauge ) horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted .
• Suspend solution container from hanger hole • For Single Use Only .
Discard unused portion .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a clear , sterile , non - pyrogenic solution of dextrose in single - dose flexible plastic containers • 10 % ( 0 . 1 grams / mL ) : 10 grams of dextrose hydrous per 100 mL in flexible plastic containers : 250 mL , 500 mL , and 1000 mL Injection : • 10 % ( 0 . 1 grams / mL ) : 10 grams of dextrose hydrous per 100 mL in flexible containers : 250 mL , 500 mL , and 1000 mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Clinically significant hyperglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to dextrose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Clinically significant hyperglycemia .
( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperglycemia or Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State : Monitor blood glucose and administer insulin as needed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Monitor for signs and symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Vein Damage and Thrombosis : Consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of at least 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Hyponatremia : Avoid in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
( 5 . 4 ) • Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload : Avoid in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor daily fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use .
( 5 . 5 ) • Refeeding Syndrome : Monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase nutrient intake .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hyperglycemia and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State The use of dextrose infusions in patients with impaired glucose tolerance may worsen hyperglycemia .
Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient ' s utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia , coma , and death .
Hyperglycemia is associated with an increase in serum osmolality , resulting in osmotic diuresis , dehydration and electrolyte losses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Patients with underlying CNS disease and renal impairment who receive dextrose infusions , may be at greater risk of developing hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state .
Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain levels within normal limits while administering 10 % Dextrose Injection .
Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during 10 % Dextrose Injection administration .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with 10 % Dextrose Injection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction develop .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Vein Damage and Thrombosis Peripheral administration of 5 % Dextrose Injection is generally acceptable , however , consider central vein when administering more than 5 % dextrose or with an osmolarity of ≥ at least 900 mOsm / L or when there is peripheral vein irritation , phlebitis , and / or associated pain [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The infusion of hypertonic solutions into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis , which manifests as pain , erythema , tenderness or a palpable cord .
Remove the catheter as soon as possible , if thrombophlebitis develops .
5 . 4 Hyponatremia 10 % Dextrose Injection is a hypertonic solution [ see Description , Table 1 ( 11 ) ] .
In the body , however , glucose containing fluids can become extremely physiologically hypotonic due to rapid glucose metabolization .
Monitoring of serum sodium is particularly important for hypotonic fluids .
Depending on the tonicity of the solution , the volume and rate of infusion , and depending on a patient ' s underlying clinical condition and capability to metabolize glucose , intravenous administration of glucose can cause electrolyte disturbances , most importantly hypo - or hyperosmotic hyponatremia .
Monitor serum sodium to minimize the risk of hyponatremia .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , those with psychogenic polydipsia , and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as diuretics , certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) .
Close clinical monitoring may be warranted .
Acute hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia , such as hyponatremic encephalopathy include pediatric patients ; women , in particular , premenopausal women ; patients with hypoxemia ; and in patients with underlying central nervous system disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
Avoid Dextrose Injection in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Brain adaptations reducing risk of cerebral edema make the brain vulnerable to injury when chronic hyponatremia is too rapidly corrected , which is known as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
High volume infusion must be used with close monitoring in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) , due to the risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia .
5 . 5 Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , the patient ' s underlying clinical condition and capability to metabolize dextrose , intravenous administration of 10 % Dextrose Injection can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , ( including hypoosmotic hyponatremia ) , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations in the administered solution .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations in the solution .
Avoid Dextrose Injection in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , blood electrolyte levels , concentration of glucose , acid - base balance , correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient or the rate of administration warrants such evaluation and acid - base balance as needed and especially during prolonged use .
Additional monitoring is recommended for patients with water and electrolyte disturbances that could be aggravated by increased glucose , insulin administration and / or free water load .
Patients at increased risk for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy include pediatric patients ; elderly patients , women , in particular premenopausal women ; patients with hypoxemia ; and patients with underlying CNS disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 6 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients may result in refeeding syndrome , characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
To prevent these complications , monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase nutrient intake .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of dextrose injection were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions : anaphylaxis , pruritus , bronchospasm , cyanosis , angioedema , hypotension , pyrexia , chills , and rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Infusion Site Reactions : infusion site phlebitis , infusion site erythema , vein damage and thrombosis , and infusion site thrombophlebitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hyponatremia and hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Electrolyte imbalance , fluid overload and hypervolemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Pulmonary vascular precipitates The most common adverse reactions are , hyperglycemia , hypersensitivity reactions , hyponatremia , infection both systemic and at the injection site , vein thrombosis or phlebitis , and electrolyte imbalance .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control , Vasopressin or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance , serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control , Vasopressin or Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Dextrose Injection can affect glycemic control , vasopressin and fluid and / or electrolyte balance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor blood glucose concentrations , fluid balance , serum electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance when using Dextrose Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control , vasopressin or fluid and / or electrolyte balance .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : Increased risk of hypoglycemia / hyperglycemia ; monitor serum glucose concentrations .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Appropriate administration of 10 % Dextrose Injection during pregnancy is not expected to cause adverse developmental outcomes , including congenital malformations .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with injectable dextrose solutions .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dextrose in human milk , the effects on a breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of 10 % Dextrose Injection to an infant during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for 10 % Dextrose Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from 10 % Dextrose Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety profile of 10 % Dextrose Injection in pediatric patients is similar to adults .
Neonates , especially premature infants with low birth weight , are at increased risk of developing hypo - or hyperglycemia and therefore need close monitoring during treatment with intravenous glucose infusions to ensure adequate glycemic control in order to avoid potential long - term adverse effects .
Closely monitor plasma electrolyte concentrations in pediatric patients who may have impaired ability to regulate fluids and electrolytes .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of 10 % Dextrose Injection may result in increased serum osmolality and risk of intracerebral hemorrhage .
Children ( including neonates and older children ) are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 10 % Dextrose Injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Elderly patients are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Dextrose is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
10 OVERDOSAGE An increased infusion rate of 10 % Dextrose Injection or administration of dextrose solutions can cause hyperglycemia , hyperosmolality , and adverse effects on water and electrolyte balance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Severe hyperglycemia and severe dilutional hyponatremia , and their complications , can be fatal .
Discontinue infusion , reduce dose and institute appropriate corrective measures such as administration of exogenous insulin .
Discontinue infusion and institute appropriate corrective measures in the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , with particular attention to CNS , respiratory and cardiovascular systems .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile , non - pyrogenic solution for fluid replenishment and caloric supply in single dose containers for intravenous administration .
The solution contains no bacteriostatic , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
The pH range is 4 . 0 ( 3 . 2 to 6 . 5 ) Table 1 .
Contents and Characteristics of Dextrose Injection 10 % , USP * Caloric value calculated on the basis of 3 . 4 kcal / g of dextrose , hydrous Strength Fill Volume Amount of Dextrose Hydrous per Container kcal * per Container Osmolarity ( mOsmol per liter ) Dextrose Injection 10 % , USP ( 0 . 1 grams / mL ) 250 mL 25 grams 85 505 500 mL 50 grams 170 505 1000 mL 100 grams 340 505 Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
The molecular weight of dextrose ( D - glucose ) monohydrate is 198 . 17 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
Dextrose is derived from corn .
The flexible container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the flexible container can leach out certain of the container ' s chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period .
The suitability of the container material has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers .
The flexible container is a closed system , and air is prefilled in the container to facilitate drainage .
The container does not require entry of external air during administration .
The container has two ports : one is the administration outlet port for attachment of an intravenous administration set and the other port has a medication site for addition of supplemental medication ( [ see Instructions for Use ( 2 . 3 ) ] ) .
The primary function of the overwrap is to protect the container from the physical environment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dextrose is oxidized to carbon dioxide and water , yielding energy .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single dose flexible plastic containers as follows : Product Number Unit of Sale Strength Each 824174 63323 - 824 - 74 Package of 30 freeflex ® bag 25 grams per 250 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) NDC 63323 - 824 - 24 One 250 mL freeflex ® bag 824175 63323 - 824 - 75 Package of 20 freeflex ® bag 50 grams per 500 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) NDC 63323 - 824 - 25 One 500 mL freeflex ® bag 824176 63323 - 824 - 76 Package of 10 freeflex ® bag 100 grams per 1 , 000 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) NDC 63323 - 824 - 26 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C / 104 ° F does not adversely affect the product .
Keep from freezing .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , caregivers , or home healthcare providers of the following risks of 10 % Dextrose Injection : • Hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Vein damage and thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Electrolyte imbalance and fluid overload [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451516 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 % Dextrose Bag Label NDC 63323 - 824 - 24 free flex ® 250 mL 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 25 grams per 250 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 % Dextrose Bag Label NDC 63323 - 824 - 25 free flex ® 500 mL 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 50 grams per 500 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 % Dextrose Bag Label NDC 63323 - 824 - 26 free flex ® 1 , 000 mL 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 100 grams per 1 , 000 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) For intravenous use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
