1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitazoxanide Tablets are indicated for the treatment of diarrhea caused by Giardia lamblia or Cryptosporidium parvum in patients 12 years and older .
Limitations of Use Nitazoxanide Tablets have not been shown to be effective for the treatment of diarrhea caused by Cryptosporidium parvum in HIV - infected or immunodeficient patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Nitazoxanide Tablets is an antiprotozoal indicated for the treatment of diarrhea caused by Giardia lamblia or Cryptosporidium parvum in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use : Nitazoxanide Tablets has not been shown to be effective for the treatment of diarrhea caused by C . parvum in HIV - infected or immunodeficient patients ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Nitazoxanide Tablets in patient 12 years and older is 500 mg orally every 12 hours with food for 3 days .
Nitazoxanide Tablets should not be administered to pediatric patients 11 years of age or younger because a single tablet contains a greater amount of nitazoxanide than the recommended dosing in this pediatric age group .
Nitazoxanide Tablets are not interchangeable with Nitazoxanide for Oral Suspension [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] • The recommended dosage of Nitazoxanide Tablets in patients 12 years and older is 500 mg orally every 12 hours with food for 3 days .
• Nitazoxanide Tablets should not be administered to pediatric patient 11 years of age or younger ( 2 . 1 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Round , yellow , film - coated tablets debossed with 77 on one side and plain on the other side .
Each tablet contains 500 mg of nitazoxanide .
Tablets : 500 mg ( 3 . 1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Nitazoxanide Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a prior hypersensitivity to nitazoxanide or any other ingredient in the formulations .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in ≥ 2 % of patients were abdominal pain , headache , chromaturia , and nausea ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Romark at 813 - 282 - 8544 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of nitazoxanide was evaluated in 2177 HIV - uninfected subjects who received nitazoxanide at the recommended dose for at least three days .
In pooled controlled clinical trials involving 536 HIV - uninfected subjects treated with nitazoxanide , the most common adverse reactions were abdominal pain , headache , chromaturia and nausea ( ≥ 2 % ) .
Safety data were analyzed separately for 280 HIV - uninfected subjects ≥ 12 years of age receiving nitazoxanide at the recommended dose for at least three days in 5 placebo - controlled clinical trials .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of nitazoxanide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following is a list of adverse reactions spontaneously reported with Nitazoxanide Tablets which were not included in clinical trial listings : Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea , gastroesophageal reflux disease Nervous System disorders : dizziness Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash , urticaria 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Competition for binding sites may occur when administered concurrently with other highly plasma protein - bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices .
Monitor for adverse reactions ( 7 ) .
7 . 1 Highly Protein Bound Drugs with Narrow Therapeutic Indices Tizoxanide ( the active metabolite of nitazoxanide ) is highly bound to plasma protein ( > 99 . 9 % ) .
Therefore , monitor for adverse reactions when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein - bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices , as competition for binding sites may occur ( e . g . , warfarin ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data with nitazoxanide in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
No teratogenicity or fetotoxicity was observed in animal reproduction studies with administration of nitazoxanide to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at exposure 30 and 2 times , respectively , the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose of 500 mg twice daily based on body surface area ( BSA ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Nitazoxanide was administered orally to pregnant rats at doses of 0 , 200 , 800 or 3200 mg / kg / day on gestation days 6 to 15 .
Nitazoxanide produced no evidence of systemic maternal toxicity when administer once daily via oral gavage to pregnant female rats at levels up to 3200 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis .
In rabbits , nitazoxanide was administered at doses of 0 , 25 , 50 , or 100 mg / kg / day on gestation days 7 to 20 .
Oral treatment of pregnant rabbits with nitazoxanide during organogenesis resulted in minimal maternal toxicity and no external fetal anomalies .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary No information regarding the presence of nitazoxanide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production is available .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for nitazoxanide and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from nitazoxanide or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Nitazoxanide Tablets for the treatment of diarrhea caused by G . lamblia or C . parvum in pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age has been established based on three ( 3 ) randomized , controlled studies with 47 pediatric subjects treated with Nitazoxanide Tablets [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
A single Nitazoxanide Tablet contains a greater amount of nitazoxanide than is recommended for use in pediatric patients 11 years or younger .
Therefore , Nitazoxanide Tablets should not be administered to peridatric patients 11 years of age or younger [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Nitazoxanide Tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients should be considered when prescribing Nitazoxanide Tablets .
8 . 6 Renal and Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of nitazoxanide in patients with compromised renal or hepatic function has not been studied .
8 . 7 HIV - Infected or Immunodeficient Patients Nitazoxanide Tablets have not been studied for the treatment of diarrhea caused by G . lamblia in HIV - infected or immunodeficient patients .
Nitazoxanide Tablets have not been shown to be superior to placebo for the treatment of diarrhea caused by C . parvum in HIV - infected or immunodeficient patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited information on nitazoxanide overdosage is available .
In the event of overdose , gastric lavage may be appropriate soon after oral administration .
Patients should be observed and given symptomatic and supportive treatment .
There is no specific antidote for overdose with nitazoxanide .
Because tizoxanide is highly protein bound ( > 99 . 9 % ) , dialysis is unlikely to significantly reduce plasma concentrations of the drug .
11 DESCRIPTION Nitazoxanide Tablets contain the active ingredient , nitazoxanide , a synthetic antiprotozoal for oral administration .
Nitazoxanide is a light yellow crystalline powder .
It is poorly soluble in ethanol and practically insoluble in water .
Chemically , nitazoxanide is 2 - acetyloxy - N - ( 5 - nitro - 2 - thiazolyl ) benzamide .
The molecular formula is C 12 H 9 N 3 O 5 S and the molecular weight is 307 . 3 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitazoxanide Tablets contain 500 mg of nitazoxanide and the following inactive ingredients : maize starch , pregelatinized corn starch , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , sucrose , sodium starch glycollate , talc , magnesium stearate , soy lecithin , polyvinyl alcohol , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake , and FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitazoxanide is an antiprotozoal [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Single Dosing : Following oral administration of Nitazoxanide Tablet , the parent drug , nitazoxanide , is not detected in plasma .
The pharmacokinetic parameters of the metabolites , tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide are shown in Table 1 below .
Table 1 .
Mean ( + / - SD ) plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide following administration of a single dose of one 500 mg Nitazoxanide Tablet with food to subjects ≥ 12 years of age Tizoxanide Tizoxanide Glucuronide Age C max ( µg / mL ) T max ( hr ) * AUC t ( µg • hr / mL ) C max ( µg / mL ) T max ( hr ) * AUC t ( µg • hr / mL ) 12 - 17 years 9 . 1 ( 6 . 1 ) 4 . 0 ( 1 - 4 ) 39 . 5 ( 24 . 2 ) 7 . 3 ( 1 . 9 ) 4 . 0 ( 2 - 8 ) 46 . 5 ( 18 . 2 ) > 18 years 10 . 6 ( 2 . 0 ) 3 . 0 ( 2 - 4 ) 41 . 9 ( 6 . 0 ) 10 . 5 ( 1 . 4 ) 4 . 5 ( 4 - 6 ) 63 . 0 ( 12 . 3 ) * T max is given as a Mean ( Range ) Multiple dosing : Following oral administration of a single Nitazoxanide Tablet every 12 hours for 7 consecutive days , there was no significant accumulation of nitazoxanide metabolites tizoxanide or tizoxanide glucuronide detected in plasma .
Bioavailability : Nitazoxanide for oral suspension is not bioequivalent to Nitazoxanide Tablets .
The relative bioavailability of the suspension compared to the tablet was 70 % .
When Nitazoxanide Tablets are administered with food , the AUC t of tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide in plasma is increased almost two - fold and the C max is increased by almost 50 % .
Nitazoxanide Tablets were administered with food in clinical trials and hence they are recomended to be administered with food [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] Distribution In plasma , more than 99 % of tizoxanide is bound to proteins .
Elimination Metabolism Following oral administration in humans , nitazoxanide is rapidly hydrolyzed to an active metabolite , tizoxanide ( desacetyl - nitazoxanide ) .
Tizoxanide then undergoes conjugation , primarily by glucuronidation .
Excretion Tizoxanide is excreted in the urine , bile and feces , and tizoxanide glucuronide is excreted in urine and bile .
Approximately two - thirds of the oral dose of nitazoxanide is excreted in the feces and one - third in the urine .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetics of tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide following administration of Nitazoxanide Tablets in pediatric patients 12 - 17 years of age are provided above in Table 1 .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies have demonstrated that tizoxanide has no significant inhibitory effect on cytochrome P450 enzymes .
12 . 4 MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action The antiprotozoal activity of nitazoxanide is believed to be due to interference with the pyruvate : ferredoxin oxidoreductase ( PFOR ) enzyme - dependent electron transfer reaction which is essential to anaerobic energy metabolism .
Studies have shown that the PFOR enzyme from G . lamblia directly reduces nitazoxanide by transfer of electrons in the absence of ferredoxin .
The DNA - derived PFOR protein sequence of C . parvum appears to be similar to that of G . lamblia .
Interference with the PFOR enzyme - dependent electron transfer reaction may not be the only pathway by which nitazoxanide exhibits antiprotozoal activity .
Resistance A potential for development of resistance by C . parvum or G . lamblia to nitazoxanide has not been examined .
Antimicrobial Activity Nitazoxanide and its metabolite , tizoxanide , are active in vitro in inhibiting the growth of ( i ) sporozoites and oocysts of C . parvum and ( ii ) trophozoites of G . lamblia .
Susceptibility Test Methods For protozoa such as C . parvum and G . lamblia , standardized tests for use in clinical microbiology laboratories are not available .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Nitazoxanide was not genotoxic in the Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosomal aberration assay or the mouse micronucleus assay .
Nitazoxanide was genotoxic in one tester strain ( TA 100 ) in the Ames bacterial mutation assay .
Impairment of Fertility Nitazoxanide did not adversely affect male or female fertility in the rat at 2400 mg / kg / day ( approximately 20 times the clinical adult dose adjusted for body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Diarrhea Caused by G . lamblia Diarrhea caused by G . lamblia in adults and adolescents 12 years of age or older : In a double - blind , controlled trial ( Study 1 ) conducted in Peru and Egypt in adults and adolescents with diarrhea and with one or more enteric symptoms ( e . g . , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , fever , abdominal distention , loss of appetite , flatulence ) caused by G . lamblia , a three - day course of treatment with Nitazoxanide Tablets administered 500 mg BID was compared with a placebo tablet for 3 days .
A second double - blind , controlled trial ( Study 2 ) conducted in Egypt in adults and adolescents with diarrhea and with or without enteric symptoms ( e . g . , abdominal colic , abdominal tenderness , abdominal cramps , abdominal distention , fever , bloody stool ) caused by G . lamblia compared Nitazoxanide Tablets administered 500 mg BID for 3 days to a placebo tablet .
For both of these studies , clinical response was evaluated 4 to 7 days following the end of treatment .
A clinical response of ‘ well ’ was defined as ‘ no symptoms , no watery stools and no more than 2 soft stools with no hematochezia within the past 24 hours ’ or ‘ no symptoms and no unformed stools within the past 48 hours . ’
The following clinical response rates were obtained : Table 2 .
Adult and Adolescent Patients with Diarrhea Caused by G . lamblia Clinical Response Rates * 4 to 7 Days Post - therapy % ( Number of Successes / Total ) Nitazoxanide Tablets Placebo Tablets Study 1 85 % ( 46 / 54 ) ¶ 44 % ( 12 / 27 ) Study 2 100 % ( 8 / 8 ) 30 % ( 3 / 10 ) * Includes all patients randomized with G . lamblia as the sole pathogen .
Patients failing to complete the studies were treated as failures .
¶ Clinical response rates statistically significantly higher when compared to placebo .
Some patients with ‘ well ’ clinical responses had G . lamblia cysts in their stool samples 4 to 7 days following the end of treatment .
The relevance of stool examination results in these patients is unknown .
Patients should be managed based upon clinical response to treatment .
14 . 2 Diarrhea Caused by C . parvum Diarrhea caused by C . parvum in adults and adolescents 12 years of age or older : In a double - blind , controlled trial conducted in Egypt in adults and adolescents with diarrhea and with or without enteric symptoms ( e . g . , abdominal pain / cramps , nausea , vomiting ) caused by C . parvum , a three - day course of treatment with Nitazoxanide Tablets administered 500 mg BID was compared with a placebo tablet for 3 days .
Clinical response was evaluated 4 to 7 days following the end of treatment .
A clinical response of ‘ well ’ was defined as ‘ no symptoms , no watery stools and no more than 2 soft stools within the past 24 hours ’ or ‘ no symptoms and no unformed stools within the past 48 hours . ’
The following clinical response rates were obtained : Table 3 .
Clinical Response Rates in Adult and Adolescent Patients 4 to 7 Days Post - therapy % ( Number of Successes / Total ) Nitazoxanide Tablets Placebo Tablets Intent - to - treat analysis * 96 % ( 27 / 28 ) ¶ 41 % ( 11 / 27 ) * Includes all patients randomized with C . parvum as the sole pathogen .
Patients failing to complete the study were treated as failures .
¶ Clinical response rates statistically significantly higher when compared to placebo .
In a second double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of Nitazoxanide Tablets conductd in Egypt in adults and adolescents with diarrhea and with or without enteric symptoms ( e . g . , addominal colic , abdominal cramps , epigastric pain ) caused by C . parvum as the sole pathogen , clinical and parasitological reponse rates showed a similar trend to the first study .
Clinical response rates , evaluted 2 to 6 days following the end of treatment , were 71 % ( 15 / 21 ) in the nitazoxanide group and 42 . 9 % ( 9 / 21 ) in the placebo group .
Some patients with ‘ well ’ clinical responses had C . parvum oocysts in their stool samples 4 to 7 days following the end of treatment .
The relevance of stool examination results in these patients is unknown .
Patients should be managed based upon clinical response to treatment .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Nitazoxanide Tablets are round , yellow , film - coated tablets debossed with 77 on one side and plain on the other side .
Each tablet contains 500 mg of nitazoxanide .
The tablets are packaged in HDPE bottles of 12 and 30 tablets .
Bottles of 12 tablets NDC 43386 - 405 - 12 Bottles of 30 tablets NDC 43386 - 405 - 03 Store the tablets at 25 oC ( 77 oF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 oC - 30 oC ( 59 oF - 86 oF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients and parents / caregivers of pediatric patients taking Nitazoxanide Tablets of the following information : Dosage and Administration : Nitazoxanide Tablets should be taken with food .
Drug - drug Interactions : Avoid concurrent warfarin use .
MANUFACTURER INFORMATION Manufactured By : Romark Laboratorties , L . C . Tampa , FL 33607 Telephone : 813 - 282 - 8544 , Fax : 813 - 282 - 1162 E - mail : customer . service @ romark . com Website : www . romark . com Distributed by : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , MD 21202 SAP code : 266925 Iss . : 12 / 2021 Nitazoxanide Tablets - 30 ct Label NDC 43386 - 405 - 03 Nitazoxanide Tablets 500 mg Rx Only LUPIN 30 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitazoxanide Tablets - 30 ct Carton NDC 43386 - 405 - 03 Nitazoxanide Tablets 500 mg Rx Only LUPIN 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitazoxanide Tablets - 12 ct Label NDC 43386 - 405 - 12 Nitazoxanide Tablets 500 mg Rx only LUPIN 12 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NitazoxanideTablets - 12 ct Carton NDC 43386 - 405 - 12 Nitazoxanide Tablets 500 mg Rx only LUPIN 12 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
