Rx only FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY WARNINGS WARNINGS 1 .
Idarubicin Hydrochloride Injection should be given slowly into a freely flowing intravenous infusion .
It must never be given intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
Severe local tissue necrosis can occur if there is extravasation during administration .
2 .
As is the case with other anthracyclines the use of idarubicin Hydrochloride can cause myocardial toxicity leading to congestive heart failure .
Cardiac toxicity is more common in patients who have received prior anthracyclines or who have pre - existing cardiac disease .
3 .
As is usual with antileukemic agents , severe myelosuppression occurs when idarubicin hydrochloride is used at effective therapeutic doses .
4 .
It is recommended that idarubicin hydrochloride be administered only under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in leukemia chemotherapy and in facilities with laboratory and supportive resources adequate to monitor drug tolerance and protect and maintain a patient compromised by drug toxicity .
The physician and institution must be capable of responding rapidly and completely to severe hemorrhagic conditions and / or overwhelming infection .
5 .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
DESCRIPTION Idarubicin Hydrochloride Injection , USP contains idarubicin hydrochloride and is a sterile , semi - synthetic , preservative - free solution ( PFS ) antineoplastic anthracycline for intravenous use .
Chemically , idarubicin hydrochloride is ( 1 S , 3 S ) - 3 - Acetyl - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 11 - hexahydro - 3 , 5 , 12 - trihydroxy - 6 , 11 - dioxo - 1 - naphthacenyl 3 - amino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - L - lyxo - hexopyranoside , hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C26H27NO9 • HCl M . W . 533 . 95 Idarubicin Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a sterile , red - orange , isotonic parenteral preservative - free solution , available in 5 mL ( 5 mg ) , 10 mL ( 10 mg ) and 20 mL ( 20 mg ) single - use - only vials .
Each mL contains idarubicin hydrochloride 1 mg and the following inactive ingredients : glycerin 25 mg and water for injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid is used to adjust the pH to a target of 3 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Idarubicin hydrochloride is a DNA - intercalating analog of daunorubicin which has an inhibitory effect on nucleic acid synthesis and interacts with the enzyme topoisomerase II .
The absence of a methoxy group at position 4 of the anthracycline structure gives the compound a high lipophilicity which results in an increased rate of cellular uptake compared with other anthracyclines .
Pharmacokinetics General Pharmacokinetics : Pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in adult leukemia patients with normal renal and hepatic function following intravenous administration of 10 to 12 mg / m2 of idarubicin daily for 3 to 4 days as a single agent or combined with cytarabine .
The plasma concentrations of idarubicin are best described by a two or three compartment open model .
The elimination rate of idarubicin from plasma is slow with an estimated mean terminal half - life of 22 hours ( range , 4 to 48 hours ) when used as a single agent and 20 hours ( range , 7 to 38 hours ) when used in combination with cytarabine .
The elimination of the primary active metabolite , idarubicinol , is considerably slower than that of the parent drug with an estimated mean terminal half - life that exceeds 45 hours ; hence , its plasma levels are sustained for a period greater than 8 days .
Distribution : The disposition profile shows a rapid distributive phase with a very high volume of distribution presumably reflecting extensive tissue binding .
Studies of cellular ( nucleated blood and bone marrow cells ) drug concentrations in leukemia patients have shown that peak cellular idarubicin concentrations are reached a few minutes after injection .
Concentrations of idarubicin and idarubicinol in nucleated blood and bone marrow cells are more than a hundred times the plasma concentrations .
Idarubicin disappearance rates in plasma and cells were comparable with a terminal half - life of about 15 hours .
The terminal half - life of idarubicinol in cells was about 72 hours .
The extent of drug and metabolite accumulation predicted in leukemia patients for Days 2 and 3 of dosing , based on the mean plasma levels and half - life obtained after the first dose , is 1 . 7 - and 2 . 3 - fold , respectively , and suggests no change in kinetics following a daily x 3 regimen .
The percentages of idarubicin and idarubicinol bound to human plasma proteins averaged 97 % and 94 % , respectively , at concentrations similar to maximum plasma levels obtained in the pharmacokinetic studies .
The binding is concentration independent .
The plasma clearance is twice the expected hepatic plasma flow indicating extensive extrahepatic metabolism .
Metabolism : The primary active metabolite formed is idarubicinol .
As idarubicinol has cytotoxic activity , it presumably contributes to the effects of idarubicin .
Elimination : The drug is eliminated predominately by biliary and to a lesser extent by renal excretion , mostly in the form of idarubicinol .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Pediatric Patients : Idarubicin studies in pediatric leukemia patients , at doses of 4 . 2 to 13 . 3 mg / m2 / day x 3 , suggest dose independent kinetics .
There is no difference between the half - lives of the drug following daily x 3 or weekly x 3 administration .
Cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) levels of idarubicin and idarubicinol were measured in pediatric leukemia patients treated intravenously .
Idarubicin was detected in 2 of 21 CSF samples ( 0 . 14 and 1 . 57 ng / mL ) , while idarubicinol was detected in 20 of these 21 CSF samples obtained 18 to 30 hours after dosing ( mean = 0 . 51 ng / mL ; range , 0 . 22 to 1 . 05 ng / mL ) .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Hepatic and Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of idarubicin have not been evaluated in leukemia patients with hepatic impairment .
It is expected that in patients with moderate or severe hepatic dysfunction , the metabolism of idarubicin may be impaired and lead to higher systemic drug levels .
The disposition of idarubicin may be also affected by renal impairment .
Therefore , a dose reduction should be considered in patients with hepatic and / or renal impairment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions No formal drug interaction studies have been performed .
CLINICAL STUDIES Four prospective randomized studies , three U . S . and one Italian , have been conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of idarubicin ( IDR ) to that of daunorubicin ( DNR ) , each in combination with cytarabine as induction therapy in previously untreated adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) .
These data are summarized in the following table and demonstrate significantly greater complete remission rates for the IDR regimen in two of the three U . S . studies and significantly longer overall survival for the IDR regimen in two of the three U . S . studies .
Inductiona Regimen Dose in mg / m2 – Daily x 3 Days Complete Remission Rate , All Pts Randomized Median Survival ( Days ) All Pts Randomized IDR DNR IDR DNR IDR DNR U . S . ( IND Studies ) 1 .
MSKCC * 12 b 50 b 51 / 65 + 38 / 65 508 + 435 ( Age ≤ 60 years ) ( 78 % ) ( 58 % ) 2 .
SEG ** 12 c 45 c 76 / 111 + 65 / 119 328 277 ( Age ≥ 15 years ) ( 69 % ) ( 55 % ) 3 .
U . S . Multicenter 13 c 45 c 68 / 101 66 / 113 393 + 281 ( Age ≥ 18 years ) ( 67 % ) ( 58 % ) Foreign ( non - IND study ) GIMEMA *** 12 c 45 c 49 / 124 49 / 125 87 169 ( Age ≥ 55 years ) ( 40 % ) ( 39 % ) * Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ** Southeastern Cancer Study Group *** Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche Maligne dell ' Adulto + Overall p < 0 . 05 , unadjusted for prognostic factors or multiple endpoints a Patients who had persistent leukemia after the first induction course received a second course b Cytarabine 25 mg / m2 bolus IV followed by 200 mg / m2 daily x 5 days by continuous infusion c Cytarabine 100 mg / m2 daily x 7 days by continuous infusion There is no consensus regarding optional regimens to be used for consolidation ; however , the following consolidation regimens were used in U . S . controlled trials .
Patients received the same anthracycline for consolidation as was used for induction .
Studies 1 and 3 utilized 2 courses of consolidation therapy consisting of idarubicin 12 or 13 mg / m2 daily for 2 days , respectively ( or DNR 50 or 45 mg / m2 daily for 2 days ) , and cytarabine , either 25 mg / m2 by IV bolus followed by 200 mg / m2 daily by continuous infusion for 4 days ( Study 1 ) , or 100 mg / m2 daily for 5 days by continuous infusion ( Study 3 ) .
A rest period of 4 to 6 weeks is recommended prior to initiation of consolidation and between the courses .
Hematologic recovery is mandatory prior to initiation of each consolidation course .
Study 2 utilized 3 consolidation courses , administered at intervals of 21 days or upon hematologic recovery .
Each course consisted of idarubicin 15 mg / m2 IV for 1 dose ( or DNR 50 mg / m2 IV for 1 dose ) , cytarabine 100 mg / m2 every 12 hours for 10 doses and 6 - thioguanine 100 mg / m2 orally for 10 doses .
If severe myelosuppression occurred , subsequent courses were given with 25 % reduction in the doses of all drugs .
In addition , this study included 4 courses of maintenance therapy ( 2 days of the same anthracycline as was used in induction and 5 days of cytarabine ) .
Toxicities and duration of aplasia were similar during induction on the 2 arms in the U . S . studies except for an increase in mucositis on the IDR arm in one study .
During consolidation , duration of aplasia on the IDR arm was longer in all three studies and mucositis was more frequent in two studies .
During consolidation , transfusion requirements were higher on the IDR arm in the two studies in which they were tabulated , and patients on the IDR arm in Study 3 spent more days on IV antibiotics ( Study 3 used a higher dose of idarubicin ) .
The benefit of consolidation and maintenance therapy in prolonging the duration of remission and survival is not proven .
Intensive maintenance with idarubicin is not recommended in view of the considerable toxicity ( including deaths in remission ) experienced by patients during the maintenance phase of Study 2 .
A higher induction death rate was noted in patients on the IDR arm in the Italian trial .
Since this was not noted in patients of similar age in the U . S . trials , one may speculate that it was due to a difference in the level of supportive care .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Idarubicin Hydrochloride injection , USP in combination with other approved antileukemic drugs is indicated for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) in adults .
This includes French - American - British ( FAB ) classifications M1 through M7 .
WARNINGS Idarubicin is intended for administration under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in leukemia chemotherapy .
Idarubicin is a potent bone marrow suppressant .
Idarubicin should not be given to patients with pre - existing bone marrow suppression induced by previous drug therapy or radiotherapy unless the benefit warrants the risk .
Severe myelosuppression will occur in all patients given a therapeutic dose of this agent for induction , consolidation or maintenance .
Careful hematologic monitoring is required .
Deaths due to infection and / or bleeding have been reported during the period of severe myelosuppression .
Facilities with laboratory and supportive resources adequate to monitor drug tolerability and protect and maintain a patient compromised by drug toxicity should be available .
It must be possible to treat rapidly and completely a severe hemorrhagic condition and / or a severe infection .
Pre - existing heart disease and previous therapy with anthracyclines at high cumulative doses or other potentially cardiotoxic agents are co - factors for increased risk of idarubicin - induced cardiac toxicity and the benefit to risk ratio of idarubicin therapy in such patients should be weighed before starting treatment with idarubicin .
Myocardial toxicity as manifested by potentially fatal congestive heart failure , acute life - threatening arrhythmias or other cardiomyopathies may occur following therapy with idarubicin .
Appropriate therapeutic measures for the management of congestive heart failure and / or arrhythmias are indicated .
Cardiac function should be carefully monitored during treatment in order to minimize the risk of cardiac toxicity of the type described for other anthracycline compounds .
The risk of such myocardial toxicity may be higher following concomitant or previous radiation to the mediastinal - pericardial area or in patients with anemia , bone marrow depression , infections , leukemic pericarditis and / or myocarditis , active or dormant cardiovascular disease , previous therapy with other anthracyclines or anthracenediones , and concomitant use of drugs with the ability to suppress cardiace contractility or cardiotoxic drugs ( e . g . , trastuzumab , cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel ) .
Do not administer idarubicin with other cardiotoxic agents unless the patient ’ s cardiac function is monitored frequently .
Patients receiving anthracyclines after stopping treatment with other cardiotoxic agents , especially those with long half - lives , may also be at an increased risk of developing cardiotoxicity .
Avoid the use of anthracycline - based therapy for at least 5 half - lives after discontinuation of the cardiotoxic agent .
If anthracyclines are used before this time , carefully monitor the cardiac function .
While there are no reliable means for predicting congestive heart failure , cardiomyopathy induced by anthracyclines is usually associated with a decrease of the left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) from pretreatment baseline values .
Since hepatic and / or renal function impairment can affect the disposition of idarubicin , liver and kidney function should be evaluated with conventional clinical laboratory tests ( using serum bilirubin and serum creatinine as indicators ) prior to and during treatment .
In a number of Phase III clinical trials , treatment was not given if bilirubin and / or creatinine serum levels exceeded 2 mg % .
However , in one Phase III trial , patients with bilirubin levels between 2 . 6 and 5 mg % received the anthracycline with a 50 % reduction in dose .
Dose reduction of idarubicin should be considered if the bilirubin and / or creatinine levels are above the normal range .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Pregnancy Category D - Idarubicin was embryotoxic and teratogenic in the rat at a dose of 1 . 2 mg / m2 / day or one tenth the human dose , which was nontoxic to dams .
Idarubicin was embryotoxic but not teratogenic in the rabbit even at a dose of 2 . 4 mg / m2 / day or two tenths the human dose , which was toxic to dams .
There is no conclusive information about idarubicin adversely affecting human fertility or causing teratogenesis .
There has been one report of a fetal fatality after maternal exposure to idarubicin during the second trimester .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If idarubicin is to be used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant during therapy , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid pregnancy .
PRECAUTIONS General Therapy with idarubicin requires close observation of the patient and careful laboratory monitoring .
Hyperuricemia secondary to rapid lysis of leukemic cells may be induced .
Appropriate measures must be taken to prevent hyperuricemia and to control any systemic infection before beginning therapy .
Extravasation of idarubicin can cause severe local tissue necrosis .
Extravasation may occur with or without an accompanying stinging or burning sensation even if blood returns well on aspiration of the infusion needle .
If signs or symptoms of extravasation occur the injection or infusion should be terminated immediately and restarted in another vein .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Laboratory tests Frequent complete blood counts and monitoring of hepatic and renal function tests are recommended .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Formal long - term carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with idarubicin .
Idarubicin and related compounds have been shown to have mutagenic and carcinogenic properties when tested in experimental models ( including bacterial systems , mammalian cells in culture and female Sprague - Dawley rats ) .
In male dogs given 1 . 8 mg / m2 / day 3 times / week ( about one seventh the weekly human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) for 13 weeks , or 3 times the human dose , testicular atrophy was observed with inhibition of spermatogenesis and sperm maturation with few or no mature sperm .
These effects were not readily reversed after a recovery of 8 weeks .
Pregnancy Category D ( See WARNINGS . )
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from idarubicin , mothers should discontinue nursing prior to taking this drug .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Patients over 60 years of age who were undergoing induction therapy experienced congestive heart failure , serious arrhythmias , chest pain , myocardial infarction , and asymptomatic declines in LVEF more frequently than younger patients ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Approximately 550 patients with AML have received idarubicin in combination with cytarabine in controlled clinical trials worldwide .
In addition , over 550 patients with acute leukemia have been treated in uncontrolled trials utilizing idarubicin as a single agent or in combination .
The table below lists the adverse experiences reported in U . S . Study 2 ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) and is representative of the experiences in other studies .
These adverse experiences constitute all reported or observed experiences , including those not considered to be drug related .
Patients undergoing induction therapy for AML are seriously ill due to their disease , are receiving multiple transfusions , and concomitant medications including potentially toxic antibiotics and antifungal agents .
The contribution of the study drug to the adverse experience profile is difficult to establish .
Induction Phase Percentage of Patients IDR DNR Adverse Experiences ( N = 110 ) ( N = 118 ) Infection 95 % 97 % Nausea & Vomiting 82 % 80 % Hair Loss 77 % 72 % Abdominal Cramps / Diarrhea 73 % 68 % Hemorrhage 63 % 65 % Mucositis 50 % 55 % Dermatologic 46 % 40 % Mental Status 41 % 34 % Pulmonary - Clinical 39 % 39 % Fever ( not elsewhere classified ) 26 % 28 % Headache 20 % 24 % Cardiac - Clinical 16 % 24 % Neurologic - Peripheral Nerves 7 % 9 % Pulmonary Allergy 2 % 4 % Seizure 4 % 5 % Cerebellar 4 % 4 % The duration of aplasia and incidence of mucositis were greater on the IDR arm than the DNR arm , especially during consolidation in some U . S . controlled trials ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
The following information reflects experience based on U . S . controlled clinical trials .
Myelosuppression Severe myelosuppression is the major toxicity associated with idarubicin therapy , but this effect of the drug is required in order to eradicate the leukemic clone .
During the period of myelosuppression , patients are at risk of developing infection and bleeding which may be life - threatening or fatal .
Gastrointestinal Nausea and / or vomiting , mucositis , abdominal pain and diarrhea were reported frequently , but were severe ( equivalent to WHO Grade 4 ) in less than 5 % of patients .
Severe enterocolitis with perforation has been reported rarely .
The risk of perforation may be increased by instrumental intervention .
The possibility of perforation should be considered in patients who develop severe abdominal pain and appropriate steps for diagnosis and management should be taken .
Dermatologic Alopecia was reported frequently and dermatologic reactions including generalized rash , urticaria and a bullous erythrodermatous rash of the palms and soles have occurred .
The dermatologic reactions were usually attributed to concomitant antibiotic therapy .
Local reactions including hives at the injection site have been reported .
Recall of skin reaction due to prior radiotherapy has occurred with idarubicin administration .
Hepatic and Renal Changes in hepatic and renal function tests have been observed .
These changes were usually transient and occurred in the setting of sepsis and while patients were receiving potentially hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic antibiotics and antifungal agents .
Severe changes in renal function ( equivalent to WHO Grade 4 ) occurred in no more than 1 % of patients , while severe changes in hepatic function ( equivalent to WHO Grade 4 ) occurred in less than 5 % of patients .
Cardiac Congestive heart failure ( frequently attributed to fluid overload ) , serious arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation , chest pain , myocardial infarction and asymptomatic declines in LVEF have been reported in patients undergoing induction therapy for AML .
Myocardial insufficiency and arrhythmias were usually reversible and occurred in the setting of sepsis , anemia and aggressive intravenous fluid administration .
The events were reported more frequently in patients over age 60 years and in those with pre - existing cardiac disease .
OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote to idarubicin .
Two cases of fatal overdosage in patients receiving therapy for AML have been reported .
The doses were 135 mg / m2over 3 days and 45 mg / m2 of idarubicin and 90 mg / m2 of daunorubicin over a three day period .
It is anticipated that overdosage with idarubicin will result in severe and prolonged myelosuppression and possibly in increased severity of gastrointestinal toxicity .
Adequate supportive care including platelet transfusions , antibiotics and symptomatic treatment of mucositis is required .
The effect of acute overdose on cardiac function is not fully known , but severe arrhythmia occurred in 1 of the 2 patients exposed .
It is anticipated that very high doses of idarubicin may cause acute cardiac toxicity and may be associated with a higher incidence of delayed cardiac failure .
Disposition studies with idarubicin in patients undergoing dialysis have not been carried out .
The profound multicompartment behavior , extensive extravascular distribution and tissue binding , coupled with the low unbound fraction available in the plasma pool make it unlikely that therapeutic efficacy or toxicity would be altered by conventional peritoneal or hemodialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( See WARNINGS ) For induction therapy in adult patients with AML the following dose schedule is recommended : Idarubicin hydrochloride injection 12 mg / m2 daily for 3 days by slow ( 10 to 15 min ) intravenous injection in combination with cytarabine .
The cytarabine may be given as 100 mg / m2 daily by continuous infusion for 7 days or as cytarabine 25 mg / m2 intravenous bolus followed by cytarabine 200 mg / m2 daily for 5 days continuous infusion .
In patients with unequivocal evidence of leukemia after the first induction course , a second course may be administered .
Administration of the second course should be delayed in patients who experience severe mucositis , until recovery from this toxicity has occurred , and a dose reduction of 25 % is recommended .
In patients with hepatic and / or renal impairment , a dose reduction of idarubicin hydrochloride should be considered .
Idarubicin hydrochloride should not be administered if the bilirubin level exceeds 5 mg % .
( See WARNINGS . )
The benefit of consolidation in prolonging the duration of remissions and survival is not proven .
There is no consensus regarding optional regimens to be used for consolidation .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES for doses used in U . S . clinical studies . )
Preparation and Administration Precautions Caution in handling the solution must be exercised as skin reactions associated with idarubicin hydrochloride may occur .
Skin accidentally exposed to idarubicin hydrochloride should be washed thoroughly with soap and water and if the eyes are involved , standard irrigation techniques should be used immediately .
The use of goggles , gloves , and protective gowns is recommended during preparation and administration of the drug .
Care in the administration of idarubicin hydrochloride will reduce the chance of perivenous infiltration .
It may also decrease the chance of local reactions such as urticaria and erythematous streaking .
During intravenous administration of idarubicin hydrochloride extravasation may occur with or without an accompanying stinging or burning sensation even if blood returns well on aspiration of the infusion needle .
If any signs or symptoms of extravasation have occurred , the injection or infusion should be immediately terminated and restarted in another vein .
If it is known or suspected that subcutaneous extravasation has occurred , it is recommended that intermittent ice packs ( 1 / 2 hour immediately , then 1 / 2 hour 4 times per day for 3 days ) be placed over the area of extravasation and that the affected extremity be elevated .
Because of the progressive nature of extravasation reactions , the area of injection should be frequently examined and plastic surgery consultation obtained early if there is any sign of a local reaction such as pain , erythema , edema or vesication .
If ulceration begins or there is severe persistent pain at the site of extravasation , early wide excision of the involved area should be considered .
Idarubicin hydrochloride should be administered slowly ( over 10 to 15 minutes ) into the tubing of a freely running intravenous infusion of Sodium Chloride Injection ( 0 . 9 % ) or 5 % Dextrose Injection .
The tubing should be attached to a butterfly needle or other suitable device and inserted preferably into a large vein .
Incompatibility Unless specific compatibility data are available , idarubicin hydrochloride should not be mixed with other drugs .
Precipitation occurs with heparin .
Prolonged contact with any solution of an alkaline pH will result in degradation of the drug .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and containers permit .
Handling and Disposal : Procedures for handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 8 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
HOW SUPPLIED Idarubicin Hydrochloride Injection , USP Single Dose Glass Vials : Sterile single use only , contains no preservative .
NDC 0143 - 9217 - 01 5 mg / 5 mL vial ( 1 mg / mL ) , individually boxed .
NDC 0143 - 9218 - 01 10 mg / 10 mL vial ( 1 mg / mL ) , individually boxed .
NDC 0143 - 9219 - 01 20 mg / 20 mL vial ( 1 mg / mL ) , individually boxed .
Store under refrigeration 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) , and protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
REFERENCES 1 .
ONS Clinical Practice Committee .
Cancer Chemotherapy Guidelines and Recommendations for Practice .
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society .
1999 : 32 - 41 .
2 .
Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs .
Washington , DC ; Division of Safety , Clinical Center Pharmacy Department and Cancer Nursing Services , National institutes of Health ; 1992 .
US Department of Health and Human Services , Public Health Service Publication NIH 92 - 2621 .
3 .
AMA Council on Scientific Affairs .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA .
1985 ; 253 : 1590 - 1591 .
4 .
National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure - Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
1987 Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Sc .
D . , Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , MA 02115 . 5 .
Clinical Oncological Society of Australia : Guidelines and Recommendations for Safe Handling of Antineoplastic Agents .
Med J Australia .
1983 ; 1 : 426 - 428 .
6 .
Jones RB , Frank R , Mass T . Safe Handling of Chemotherapeutic Agents : A Report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA Cancer J Clin .
1983 ; 33 : 258 - 263 .
7 .
American Society of Hospital Pharmacists .
ASHP Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
Am J Hosp Pharm .
1990 ; 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
8 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs ( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines ) .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
1996 ; 53 : 1669 - 1685 .
Manufactured by THYMOORGAN PHARMAZIE GmbH , Schiffgraben 23 , 38690 Goslar , Germany Distributed by West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised March 2016 127 . 207 . 018 / 00 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9217 - 01 Rx only Idarubicin Injection , USP 5 mg / 5 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) Sterile , Isotonic Solution FOR IV USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9218 - 01 Rx only Idarubicin Injection , USP 10 mg / 10 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) Sterile , Isotonic Solution FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9219 - 01 Rx only Idarubicin Hydrochloride Injection , USP 20 mg / 20 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) Sterile , Isotonic Solution FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE 5 ML AND 10 ML CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE 20 ML CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
