WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADHANSIA XR ® is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
ADHANSIA XR is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose for patients 6 years and older : 25 mg once daily in the morning .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage may be increased in increments of 10 to 15 mg at intervals of at least 5 days .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosages above 85 mg daily in adults and 70 mg and above daily in pediatric patients are associated with disproportionate increases in the incidence of certain adverse reactions .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer with or without food .
( 2 . 2 ) • Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto a tablespoon of applesauce or yogurt .
If sprinkled , take the contents without crushing or chewing .
( 2 . 2 ) • To avoid substitution errors and overdosage , do not substitute for other methylphenidate products on a milligram - per - milligram basis .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to initiating treatment with ADHANSIA XR , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , and periodically re - evaluate the need for ADHANSIA XR use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 General Dosing Information Administer ADHANSIA XR orally once daily in the morning with or without food .
The recommended starting dose of ADHANSIA XR for patients 6 years or older is 25 mg once daily .
Titrate the dose in increments of 10 to 15 mg at intervals of no less than 5 days .
Dosages higher than 100 mg daily in adults and 85 mg daily in pediatric patients have not been evaluated in clinical trials and are not recommended .
Although efficacy was demonstrated in short - term controlled trials in adults at dosages of 100 mg daily , dosages above 85 mg daily were associated with a disproportionate increase in the incidence of certain adverse reactions .
In short - term controlled trials in pediatric patients , efficacy was demonstrated at dosages of 70 mg daily , but dosages 70 mg daily and higher were associated with a disproportionate increase in the incidence of certain adverse reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Individualize dosage adjustments based upon assessment of clinical benefit and tolerability with careful consideration of the dose - related adverse reactions .
ADHANSIA XR may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto a tablespoon of applesauce or yogurt .
The entire mixture should be consumed immediately or within 10 minutes .
If the mixture is not consumed within 10 minutes after mixing , it should be discarded and not stored .
Patients should take the entire contents of the capsule sprinkled on the chosen food in its entirety , without chewing .
The dose of a single capsule should not be divided .
Patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day .
In the event of a missed dose , do not administer later in the day .
Do not administer additional medication to make up for the missed dose [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of ADHANSIA XR , and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur , reduce the dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue the drug .
ADHANSIA XR should be periodically discontinued to assess the patient ' s condition .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , discontinue ADHANSIA XR .
2 . 4 Switching from Other Methylphenidate Products If switching from other methylphenidate products , discontinue that treatment , and titrate with ADHANSIA XR using the titration schedule above .
Do not substitute ADHANSIA XR for other methylphenidate products on a milligram - per - milligram basis because of different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles [ see Description ( 11 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 25 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – blue capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 25 mg ” on the body ) Contains 25 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 21 . 6 mg of methylphenidate • 35 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – orange capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 35 mg ” on the body ) Contains 35 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 30 . 3 mg of methylphenidate • 45 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – yellow capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 45 mg ” on the body ) Contains 45 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 38 . 9 mg of methylphenidate • 55 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – light green capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 55 mg ” on the body ) Contains 55 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 47 . 6 mg of methylphenidate • 70 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – iron gray capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 70 mg ” on the body ) Contains 70 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 60 . 5 mg of methylphenidate • 85 mg ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) Extended - Release Capsules – white capsule ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” on cap and “ 85 mg ” on the body ) Contains 85 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride , equivalent to 73 . 5 mg of methylphenidate Extended - release Capsules : 25 mg , 35 mg , 45 mg , 55 mg , 70 mg and 85 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ADHANSIA XR is contraindicated in patients : • With a known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of ADHANSIA XR .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Receiving concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , and also within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a MAOI , because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or product components .
( 4 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Events : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulants at recommended doses in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of CNS stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to ADHANSIA XR use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) • Allergic - Type Reactions : FD & C Yellow No . 5 : ADHANSIA XR 45 mg capsules contain FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Events Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have occurred in adults treated with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses .
Sudden death has occurred in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious cardiac problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmia , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during ADHANSIA XR treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 bpm ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing ADHANSIA XR .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 % in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products , in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon CNS stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in pediatric patients ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated pediatric patients over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated pediatric patients ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
5 . 8 Allergic - Type Reactions : FD & C Yellow No . 5 ADHANSIA XR 45 mg capsules contain FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other ingredients of ADHANSIA XR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive crisis when used concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Drug dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Serious cardiovascular reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood pressure and heart rate increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - term suppression of growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Allergic Reactions FD & C Yellow No . 5 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] The most common ( ≥ 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) adverse reactions occurring with ADHANSIA XR in adults are insomnia , dry mouth , nausea , and decreased appetite .
The most common ( ≥ 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) adverse reactions occurring with ADHANSIA XR in pediatric patients are decreased appetite , insomnia , and weight decreased .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Purdue Pharma L . P . at 1 - 888 - 726 - 7535 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Other Methylphenidate Products in Children , Adolescents , and Adults with ADHD Commonly reported ( ≥ 2 % of the methylphenidate group and twice the rate of the placebo group ) adverse reactions from placebo - controlled trials of methylphenidate products include : appetite decreased , weight decreased , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , dry mouth , vomiting , insomnia , anxiety , nervousness , restlessness , affect lability , agitation , irritability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , blurred vision , blood pressure increased , heart rate increased , tachycardia , palpitations , hyperhidrosis , and pyrexia .
Clinical Trials Experience with ADHANSIA XR ADHANSIA XR was studied in adults ( 18 to 72 years ) and pediatric patients ( 6 to 17 years ) who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , 5 th edition ( DSM - 5 ) criteria for ADHD .
The safety data for adults is based on three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in doses of 25 mg to 100 mg per day .
The safety data for pediatric patients ( 6 to 17 years ) is based on two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in doses of 25 mg to 85 mg per day .
The total number of patients exposed to ADHANSIA XR during 1 to 4 - week long , controlled treatment periods is 1168 ; this included 719 adult patients and 449 pediatric patients [ 156 ( 6 to 12 years ) ; 293 ( 12 to 17 years ) ] , from two clinical trials in adults , one in pediatric patients ages 12 to 17 years , and one in pediatric patients ages 6 to 12 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment In controlled adult trials for Study 1 , 3 % of both of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients and placebo - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions .
In an adult workplace environment study ( Study 2 ) , 10 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
The following adverse reactions led to discontinuation at a frequency of 2 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients : nausea , bronchitis , gastroenteritis viral , viral infection , blood pressure increased , and hypomania .
In an adult laboratory classroom study ( Study 5 ) , 3 . 5 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions during the open - label titration period .
There were no discontinuations due to adverse reactions during the double - blind period of the study .
In a controlled trial ( Study 3 ) in pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) , 3 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most frequent adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in at least 1 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients and at a rate greater that placebo was irritability ( 1 % ) .
Two patients taking ADHANSIA XR 70 or 85 mg had delirium leading to discontinuation .
In a controlled trial ( Study 4 ) in pediatric patients ( 6 to 12 years ) , 1 % of ADHANSIA XR - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
Adult Patients with ADHD The most common adverse reactions ( incidence of ≥ 5 % and at least twice placebo ) of ADHANSIA XR occurring in controlled trials in adults ( Study 1 ) were insomnia , dry mouth , and decreased appetite .
Table 1 lists the adverse reactions that occurred ≥ 2 % of adult patients and greater than placebo among ADHANSIA XR - treated adult patients in Study 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Adult Patients with ADHD on ADHANSIA XR and Greater than Patients Taking Placebo in a 4 - week Clinical Trial ( Study 1 ) Adverse Reaction ADHANSIA XR All doses ADHANSIA XR Placebo 25 mg 45 mg 70 mg 100 mg N = 375 ( N = 77 ) ( N = 73 ) ( N = 73 ) ( N = 74 ) ( N = 297 ) ( N = 78 ) Initial Insomnia 4 % 8 % 6 % 7 % 6 % 1 % Insomnia 17 % 11 % 16 % 19 % 16 % 4 % Dry mouth 8 % 8 % 7 % 14 % 9 % 4 % Nausea 4 % 6 % 4 % 11 % 6 % 3 % Diarrhea 1 % 3 % 7 % 5 % 4 % 1 % Decreased appetite 4 % 7 % 15 % 19 % 11 % 3 % Feeling jittery 1 % 3 % 8 % 4 % 4 % 1 % Weight decreased 3 % 4 % 3 % 5 % 4 % 1 % Upper respiratory tract infection 0 % 4 % 3 % 3 % 2 % 1 % The most common adverse reactions ( incidence of ≥ 5 % ) of ADHANSIA XR occurring in adults in the open - label dose - optimization period of Study 5 were headache , decreased appetite , insomnia , irritability , upper respiratory tract infection , dry mouth , nausea , anxiety , and fatigue .
Table 2 lists adverse reactions that occurred ≥ 2 % of adult patients in the ADHANSIA XR - treated patients and greater than placebo - treated patients for the double - blind period of study 5 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Adult Patients with ADHD on ADHANSIA XR and Greater than Patients Taking Placebo in the Double - Blind Period ( Study 5 ) * Includes insomnia , initial insomnia , and delayed sleep phase Adverse Reaction ADHANSIA XR All doses ADHANSIA XR Placebo 25 mg 35 mg 45 mg 55 mg 70 mg 85 mg 100 mg N = 239 ( N = 3 ) ( N = 4 ) ( N = 15 ) ( N = 31 ) ( N = 30 ) ( N = 22 ) ( N = 16 ) ( N = 121 ) ( N = 118 ) Headache 0 % 0 % 7 % 0 % 3 % 5 % 13 % 4 % 3 % Fatigue 0 % 0 % 0 % 3 % 3 % 9 % 0 % 3 % 1 % Insomnia * 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 7 % 5 % 0 % 3 % 2 % Irritability 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 9 % 0 % 2 % 0 % Nausea 0 % 0 % 7 % 3 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 0 % Dysmenorrhea 0 % 25 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 5 % 0 % 2 % 0 % Pediatric Patients ( 12 to 17 years ) with ADHD The most common ( incidence ≥ 5 % and at least twice placebo ) adverse reactions reported in pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) were decreased appetite , insomnia , and weight decreased .
Table 3 lists the adverse reactions that occurred ≥ 2 % of pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) and greater than placebo among ADHANSIA XR - treated pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Pediatric Patients ( 12 to 17 years ) with ADHD Taking ADHANSIA XR and Greater than Placebo in a 4 - week Clinical TrialAdverse Reaction ADHANSIA XR All doses ADHANSIA XR Placebo 25 mg 45 mg 70 mg 85 mg ( N = 73 ) ( N = 72 ) ( N = 76 ) ( N = 72 ) ( N = 293 ) ( N = 74 ) Decreased appetite 7 % 19 % 28 % 26 % 20 % 0 % Insomnia 4 % 0 % 9 % 13 % 6 % 1 % Initial Insomnia 4 % 7 % 5 % 4 % 5 % 1 % Weight decreased 1 % 3 % 8 % 13 % 7 % 0 % Abdominal pain upper 5 % 1 % 5 % 4 % 4 % 1 % Nausea 3 % 6 % 7 % 8 % 6 % 4 % Dizziness 3 % 0 % 4 % 4 % 3 % 0 % Dry mouth 1 % 0 % 5 % 4 % 3 % 1 % Vomiting 1 % 1 % 3 % 6 % 3 % 0 % Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD Study 4 , conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age , was comprised of a 6 - week open - label dose - optimization phase in which all patients received ADHANSIA XR ( n = 156 ; mean dose 48 mg ) , followed by a 1 - week , double - blind controlled phase in which patients were randomized to continue ADHANSIA XR ( n = 75 ) or switch to placebo ( n = 73 ) .
During the open - label ADHANSIA XR treatment phase , adverse reactions reported in > 5 % of patients included : decreased appetite ( 35 % ) , upper abdominal pain ( 15 % ) , affect lability ( 13 % ) , nausea or vomiting ( 13 % ) , weight decreased ( 12 % ) , insomnia ( 10 % ) , irritability ( 10 % ) , headache ( 10 % ) , and heart rate increased ( 5 % ) .
Because of the trial design ( 6 - week open - label active treatment phase followed by a 1 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled withdrawal ) , the adverse reaction rates described in the double - blind phase are lower than expected in clinical practice .
No difference occurred in the incidence of adverse reactions between ADHANSIA XR and placebo during the 1 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled treatment phase .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of methylphenidate products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are as follows : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura Cardiac Disorders : angina pectoris , bradycardia , extrasystole , supraventricular tachycardia , ventricular extrasystole Eye Disorders : diplopia , mydriasis , visual impairment General Disorders : chest pain , chest discomfort , hyperpyrexia Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatocellular injury , acute hepatic failure Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema , anaphylactic reactions , auricular swelling , bullous conditions , exfoliative conditions , urticarias , pruritus , rashes , eruptions , and exanthemas Investigations : alkaline phosphatase increased , bilirubin increased , hepatic enzyme increased , platelet count decreased , white blood cell count abnormal Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : arthralgia , myalgia , muscle twitching , rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : convulsion , grand mal convulsion , dyskinesia , serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Psychiatric Disorders : disorientation , hallucination , hallucination auditory , hallucination visual , libido changes , logorrhea , mania Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : alopecia , erythema Urogenital System : priapism Vascular Disorders : Raynaud ’ s phenomenon 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed ( 7 . 1 ) .
7 . 1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions Table 3 presents clinically important drug interactions with ADHANSIA XR .
Table 3 : Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with ADHANSIA XRMonoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Intervention : Do not administer ADHANSIA XR concomitantly with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment .
Examples : selegiline , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , linezolid , methylene blue Gastric pH Modulators Clinical Impact : May change the release , PK profiles and alter the pharmacodynamics of ADHANSIA XR .
Intervention : Monitor patients for changes in clinical effect and use alternative therapy based on clinical response .
Examples : Omeprazole , esomeprazole , pantoprazole , famotidine , sodium bicarbonate Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact : ADHANSIA XR may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed .
Examples : Potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics , calcium channel blockers , angiotensin - converting - enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , beta blockers , centrally acting alpha - 2 receptor agonists Risperidone Clinical Impact : Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Intervention : Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHANSIA XR during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
Risk Summary Published studies and post - marketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the fetus associated with the use of central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulants during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
No effects on morphological development were observed in embryo - fetal studies with oral administration of methylphenidate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 7 and 11 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 85 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
However , fetal spina bifida was observed in rabbits at a dose 36 times the MRHD given to adolescents .
A decrease in pup body weight was observed in a pre - and post - natal development study with oral administration of methylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses 4 times the MRHD given to adolescents [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions CNS stimulants , such as ADHANSIA XR , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 75 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
Malformations ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) were observed in rabbits at the highest dose .
which is approximately 36 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 85 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rabbits was 60 mg / kg / day ( 11 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of morphological development effects in rats , although increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations were seen at the highest dose level ( 7 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) , which was also maternally toxic .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rats was 25 mg / kg / day .
( 2 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) .
When methylphenidate was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 45 mg / kg / day , offspring body weight gain was decreased at the highest dose ( 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , but no other effects on postnatal development were observed .
The no effect level for pre - and postnatal development in rats was 15 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature , based on breast milk sampling from five mothers , reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ADHANSIA XR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ADHANSIA XR or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ADHANSIA XR in pediatric patients under the age of 6 years have not been established .
The safety and effectiveness of ADHANSIA XR have been established in one adequate and well - controlled 6 - week study in pediatric patients ages 6 to 12 years , and in one adequate and well - controlled 4 - week study in pediatric patients ages 12 to 17 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established .
Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including ADHANSIA XR .
Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 85 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
In the study conducted in young rats , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal weeks 13 - 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the MRHD of 85 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females exposed to the highest dose ( 6 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 25 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use ADHANSIA XR has not been studied in the patients over the age of 72 years .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance ADHANSIA XR contains methylphenidate , a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants including ADHANSIA XR , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , to achieve a desired psychological or physiological effect .
Abuse is characterized by impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Abusers of CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of CNS stimulants including ADHANSIA XR , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for ADHANSIA XR use .
9 . 3 Dependence Dependence ADHANSIA XR may produce physical dependence from continued therapy .
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; depression ; fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
Tolerance ADHANSIA XR may produce tolerance from continued therapy .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ’ s desired and / or undesired effects over time .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsion ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring .
Treatment should consist of general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug .
Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdosage .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
Use supportive and symptomatic measures .
11 DESCRIPTION ADHANSIA XR extended - release capsules contain methylphenidate hydrochloride , a CNS stimulant .
The capsules contain multilayered beads , composed of an immediate - release ( IR ) layer which contains approximately 20 % of the methylphenidate dose , and a controlled release layer which contains approximately 80 % of the methylphenidate dose , for oral administration .
ADHANSIA XR is available in six capsule strengths .
ADHANSIA XR is intended for oral administration .
Each extended - release capsule contains 25 mg , 35 mg , 45 mg , 55 mg , 70 mg , or 85 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride ( HCl ) , which is equivalent to 21 . 6 mg , 30 . 3 mg , 38 . 9 , mg , 47 . 6 mg , 60 . 5 mg , and 73 . 5 mg of methylphenidate free base , respectively .
Chemically , methylphenidate HCl is d , l ( racemic ) methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidine acetate hydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C14H19NO2 ● HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate HCl is a white to off - white , odorless , fine crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Its molecular weight is 269 . 8 g / mol .
Inactive Ingredients : ammonio methacrylate copolymer dispersion ( type B ) , anionic copolymer ( consisting of methyl acrylate , methyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid ) , glyceryl monostearate , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , silicon dioxide , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sorbic acid , sugar spheres , triethyl citrate .
Each strength capsule also contains colorant ingredients in the capsule shell as follows : • 25 mgFD & C Blue No . 1 • 35 mgFD & C Yellow No . 6 , Titanium Dioxide • 45 mgFD & C Yellow No . 5 , Titanium Dioxide • 55 mgFD & C Blue No . 1 , Yellow Iron Oxide , Titanium Dioxide • 70 mgBlack Iron Oxide , Titanium Dioxide • 85 mgTitanium Dioxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and l - isomers .
The d - isomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - isomer .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption ADHANSIA XR contains a racemic mixture of d - and l - methylphenidate and produces two distinct peak concentrations ( Cmax ) .
The 1 st median ( range ) time to Cmax occurred at about 1 . 5 ( 1 - 2 . 5 ) hours and the 2 nd about 12 ( 8 . 5 - 16 . 0 ) hours after ADHANSIA XR administration .
Following administration of ADHANSIA XR ( 100 mg once daily ) and 60 mg of immediate - release ( IR ) methylphenidate ( administered as 20 mg three times daily 4 hours apart ) under fasted condition for 5 consecutive days to 21 healthy adult subjects , 1 std , l - methylphenidate mean Cmax was about 22 % higher but the 2 nd mean Cmax was similar for ADHANSIA XR compared to IR methylphenidate at steady state .
The mean extent of exposure ( AUC0 - 24 h ) and minimum concentration ( Cmin ) of d , l - methylphenidate were about 50 % and 288 % higher , respectively for ADHANSIA XR compared to IR methylphenidate at steady state .
( Figure 1 ) .
Following administration of ADHANSIA XR ( 100 mg once daily ) , the steady - state was reached from day 3 .
Figure 1 : Mean Concentration - Time Profiles for d , l - Methylphenidate on Day 5 After Daily Dosing [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect of Food High fat , high caloric meal ( 800 to 1000 calories ) does not affect Cmax and extent of absorption ( AUC ) of d , l - methylphenidate when taken with ADHANSIA XR .
The time to 1 st and 2 nd Cmax was increased by about 1 hour after administration with a high fat meal compared to under fasting condition .
The absorption and exposure to d , l - methylphenidate were similar when ADHANSIA XR ( 100 mg ) was administered following an overnight fast as an intact capsule or sprinkled on a tablespoonful of applesauce and yogurt in healthy adult subjects .
Effect of Alcohol In vitro studies were conducted to explore the effect of alcohol on the release characteristics of methylphenidate from ADHANSIA XR .
No increase in the rate of release of methylphenidate from ADHANSIA XR was observed with the alcohol concentrations of 5 % , 20 % , and 40 % at hour 1 and for 5 % and 20 % at hour 2 .
A faster release , 71 % and 61 % for 70 mg and 100 mg , respectively , was observed with the alcohol concentration of 40 % at hour 2 .
In an in vivo alcohol interaction study , in fasted healthy adults , ADHANSIA XR 70 mg extended - release capsules with 40 % alcohol concentration resulted in a 1 . 4 - fold increase in the peak plasma methylphenidate concentration and a 1 . 3 - fold increase in the extent of absorption .
Elimination The mean plasma elimination half - life for d , l - methylphenidate was about 7 hours in healthy volunteers .
Metabolism In humans , methylphenidate is metabolized primarily via de - esterification to alpha - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( PPAA ) .
The metabolite has little or no pharmacologic activity .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite was PPAA , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Specific Populations Male and Female Patients There is insufficient experience with the use of ADHANSIA XR to detect gender variations in pharmacokinetics .
Racial or Ethnic Groups There is insufficient experience with the use of ADHANSIA XR to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Pediatric Patients Results of the pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that the pharmacokinetic profile in pediatric patients ( 6 to 12 years ) is comparable to the pharmacokinetic profile in adults and pediatric patients ( 13 to 17 years ) based on adjustment for body - weight .
Pharmacokinetic studies of racemic methylphenidate after oral administration of ADHANSIA XR has been conducted in pediatric patients ( 6 to 17 years ) with ADHD .
Following administration of ADHANSIA XR , the median ( range ) 1 st and 2 nd peak plasma concentration for d , l - methylphenidate occurred in about 2 ( 1 - 4 ) and 10 ( 8 - 14 ) hours , respectively in pediatric patients ( 6 to 12 years ) and 2 ( 1 – 4 ) and 11 ( 8 – 14 ) hours , respectively in pediatric patients ( 13 to 17 years ) .
The mean plasma elimination half - life for d , l - methylphenidate was about 4 to 7 hours in pediatric patients ( 6 to 12 years ) and 5 hours in pediatric patients ( 13 to 17 years ) .
Patients with Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of ADHANSIA XR in patients with renal impairment .
After oral administration of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , methylphenidate was extensively metabolized and approximately 80 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in the form of ritalinic acid metabolite .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal insufficiency is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of ADHANSIA XR .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of ADHANSIA XR in patients with hepatic impairment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas , at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 85 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
In a 24 - week carcinogenicity study in the transgenic mouse strain p53 + / - , which is sensitive to genotoxic carcinogens , there was no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Male and female mice were fed diets containing the same concentration of methylphenidate as in the lifetime carcinogenicity study ; the high - dose groups were exposed to 60 to 74 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate .
Mutagenesis Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay or the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Methylphenidate was negative in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week Continuous Breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses of up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose of 85 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Adult Patients with ADHD The efficacy of ADHANSIA XR for the treatment of ADHD in adults was evaluated in three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
A 4 - week , randomized , double - blind , multi - center , placebo - controlled , safety and efficacy study ( Study 1 NCT02139124 ) involving adult patients aged 18 to 72 years ( n = 375 ) who met the DSM - 5 criteria for ADHD was conducted .
Patients were randomized to one of five treatment arms with ADHANSIA XR 25 , 45 , 70 , 100 mg , or placebo .
Doses were titrated to the randomized , fixed dose over a 2 - week period and then maintained at the assigned dose for an additional 2 weeks .
The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as the change from baseline ( Visit 2 , Week 1 ) of the adult ADHD - Rating Scale ( ADHD - 5 - RS ) with prompts total score at Visit 6 , Week 5 .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated a statistically significant improvement for 45 mg and 100 mg compared to placebo on change of ADHD - RS total score from baseline ( Visit 2 , Week 1 ) to Visit 6 , Week 5 ( Study 1 in Table 4 ) .
A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover design , adult workplace environment ( AWE ) study ( Study 2 NCT02225639 ) of ADHANSIA XR was conducted in adults ( 18 to 58 years ) who met the DSM - 5 criteria for ADHD .
Subjects were titrated to an optimal dose ( 25 mg , 35 mg , 45 mg , 55 mg , 70 mg , 85 mg or 100 mg ) of ADHANSIA XR in an open - label phase of between 2 and 7 weeks , familiarized with study procedures in a practice AWE session and then randomized to one of the two sequences : ( i ) ADHANSIA XR to PLACEBO or ( ii ) PLACEBO to ADHANSIA XR , and received one treatment for one week , followed by an AWE session , then crossed over to the other treatment for one week , followed by a second AWE session .
Efficacy assessments were conducted at pre - dose and 1 , 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , and 16 hours post - dose during the AWE sessions using the Permanent Product Measure of Performance Total ( PERMP - T ) score .
PERMP - T is the combined score obtained by adding PERMP - A ( number of math problems attempted ) and PERMP - C ( number of math problems answered correctly ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the comparison of the ADHANSIA XR with placebo in mean PERMP - T scores , averaged across all timepoints on the AWE days .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated a statistically significant improvement over placebo based on the primary efficacy endpoint ( Study 2 in Table 5 ) .
The secondary efficacy endpoints were onset and duration of clinical effect , as assessed by the treatment difference in PERMP - T scores at post - dose time points .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated statistically significant improvement over placebo at 1 , 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 and 16 hours post - dose , but not at 14 hours post - dose .
A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , adult laboratory classroom ( ALC ) study ( Study 5 NCT03618030 ) of ADHANSIA XR was conducted in adults ( 18 to 60 years ) who met the DSM - 5 criteria for ADHD .
Subjects were titrated to an optimal dose ( 25 mg , 35 mg , 45 mg , 55 mg , 70 mg , 85 mg or 100 mg , mean dose 67 . 5 mg ) of ADHANSIA XR in an open - label phase for up to 7 weeks , familiarized with study procedures in a practice ALC session , then randomized to their optimal dose of ADHANSIA XR or placebo .
At the end of 1 week of double - blind treatment , patients were evaluated at pre - dose and at 0 . 5 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 . 5 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 14 , 15 , and 16 hours post - dose during the ALC session using the Permanent Product Measure of Performance Total ( PERMP - T ) score .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the comparison of the ADHANSIA XR with placebo in mean PERMP - T scores , averaged across all timepoints on the ALC day .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated a statistically significant improvement over placebo based on the primary efficacy endpoint ( Study 5 in Table 5 ) .
The secondary efficacy endpoints were onset and duration of clinical effect , as assessed by the treatment difference in PERMP - T scores at post - dose time points .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated statistically significant improvement over placebo at 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 . 5 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 14 , 15 , and 16 hours post - dose .
Pediatric Patients ( 12 to 17 years ) with ADHD The efficacy of ADHANSIA XR for the treatment of ADHD was evaluated in a 4 - week randomized , double - blind , multi - center , placebo - controlled , safety and efficacy study ( Study 3 NCT02139111 ) involving pediatric patients ( 12 to 17 years ) ( n = 354 ) who met the DSM - 5 criteria for ADHD .
Patients were randomized to one of five treatment arms with ADHANSIA XR 25 , 45 , 70 , or 85 mg or placebo .
Doses were titrated over a 2 - week period and then maintained on the fixed dose for an additional 2 - weeks .
The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as the change from baseline of the pediatric ADHD - 5 - RS total score from baseline ( Week 1 ) to Visit 6 , Week 5 ( Study 3 in Table 4 ) .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated a statistically significant treatment effect compared with placebo at Visit 6 , Week 5 for the 45 and 70 mg dose groups .
Pediatric patients ( 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD The efficacy of ADHANSIA XR for the treatment of ADHD was evaluated in an analog classroom trial ( Study 4 NCT03172481 ) conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age ( n = 147 ) who met the DSM - 5 criteria for ADHD .
Patients received ADHANSIA XR 25 , 35 , 45 , 55 , 70 or 85 mg ( mean dose 48 mg ) during a 6 - week , open - label , dose - optimization period , followed by a 1 - week , randomized , placebo - con - trolled , double - blind treatment phase .
After 1 week of double - blind treatment , patients were evaluated at pre - dose and 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , and 13 hours post - dose on the analog classroom day using the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M - Flynn , and Pelham ( SKAMP ) rating scale , a 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the comparison of the ADHANSIA XR with placebo in mean SKAMP - Combined scores , averaged across 8 timepoints on the analog classroom day .
ADHANSIA XR demonstrated a statistically significant response over placebo ( Study 4 in Table 5 . )
.
The secondary efficacy endpoints were onset and duration of clinical effect , as assessed by the treatment difference in SKAMP - Combined scores at post - dose time points .
The SKAMP - Combined scores were statistically significantly lower ( improved ) at all time points ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 13 hours ) post - dose with ADHANSIA XR compared to placebo ( Figure 2 ) .
Table 4 : Summary of Primary Efficacy Results from Studies in Adults ( Study 1 ) and Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 years ( Study 3 ) with ADHDn : number of subjects included in the primary efficacy analysis set ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval , not adjusted for multiple comparisons .
a Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
* Doses that are statistically significantly different from placebo after adjusting for multiplicity .
Study Number Treatment Group ( ADHANSIA XR dose level ) Primary Efficacy Measure : Change from Baseline ( Week 1 , Visit 2 ) in ADHD - 5 - RS Total Score to Week 5 ( Visit 6 ) n Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 25 mg 75 36 . 1 ( 8 . 1 ) - 11 . 6 ( 1 . 31 ) - 1 . 9 ( - 5 . 6 , 1 . 7 ) 45 mg * 73 36 . 5 ( 7 . 2 ) - 16 . 8 ( 1 . 34 ) - 7 . 1 ( - 10 . 8 , - 3 . 4 ) 70 mg 71 35 . 4 ( 7 . 4 ) - 12 . 0 ( 1 . 37 ) - 2 . 3 ( - 6 . 0 , 1 . 4 ) 100 mg * 72 37 . 0 ( 7 . 9 ) - 17 . 6 ( 1 . 39 ) - 7 . 9 ( - 11 . 6 , - 4 . 1 ) Placebo 77 35 . 7 ( 8 . 4 ) - 9 . 7 ( 1 . 32 ) -- Study 3 25 mg 71 37 . 7 ( 8 . 7 ) - 12 . 8 ( 1 . 35 ) - 2 . 2 ( - 5 . 9 , 1 . 6 ) 45 mg * 68 36 . 4 ( 8 . 5 ) - 16 . 0 ( 1 . 39 ) - 5 . 4 ( - 9 . 2 , - 1 . 6 ) 70 mg * 72 35 . 9 ( 8 . 4 ) - 15 . 8 ( 1 . 35 ) - 5 . 2 ( - 9 . 0 , - 1 . 4 ) 85 mg 70 37 . 8 ( 8 . 1 ) - 15 . 0 ( 1 . 39 ) - 4 . 4 ( - 8 . 2 , - 0 . 6 ) Placebo 71 37 . 3 ( 8 . 4 ) - 10 . 6 ( 1 . 35 ) -- Table 5 : Summary of Primary Efficacy Results from Laboratory Classroom Studies in Adults ( Studies 2 and 5 ) and Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years ( Study 4 ) with ADHDn : number of subjects in the primary efficacy analysis set ; SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval , not adjusted for multiple comparisons .
a Difference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean of post - dose scores .
b In each treatment group , three subjects did not have a pre - dose score .
Hence , the actual numbers of patients included in the primary analysis were 113 and 110 respectively .
Study Number Primary Efficacy Measure Treatment Group n Pre - dose Mean Score ( SD ) Post - Dose LS Mean Score ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 2 Average PERMP - T ADHANSIA XR 45 225 . 1 ( 76 . 7 ) 281 . 3 ( 4 . 33 ) 26 . 80 ( 15 . 19 , 38 . 41 ) Placebo 45 235 . 7 ( 65 . 4 ) 254 . 5 ( 4 . 63 ) -- Study 5 Average PERMP - T ADHANSIA XR 116 b 258 . 2 ( 89 . 2 ) 302 . 9 ( 3 . 50 ) 16 . 3 ( 7 . 6 , 24 . 9 ) Placebo 113 b 275 . 2 ( 105 . 8 ) 286 . 6 ( 3 . 52 ) – Study 4 Average SKAMP - C ADHANSIA XR 74 14 . 4 ( 10 . 6 ) 10 . 3 ( 0 . 74 ) - 8 . 6 ( - 10 . 6 , - 6 . 6 ) Placebo 73 11 . 5 ( 7 . 1 ) 18 . 9 ( 0 . 73 ) Figure 2 : LS Mean SKAMP - Combined Score after Treatment with ADHANSIA XR or Placebo during Classroom Day in Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years with ADHD ( Study 4 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] LS = Least squares .
SE = Standard Error .
The raw mean and SE bars are presented at the pre - dose timepoint , rather than the LS mean and SE bars .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ADHANSIA XR ® ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) extended - release capsules are available as follows : • 25 mg Capsules – blue , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 25 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 525 - 30 • 35 mg Capsules – orange , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 35 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 535 - 30 • 45 mg Capsules – yellow , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 45 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 545 - 30 • 55 mg Capsules – light green , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 55 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 555 - 30 • 70 mg Capsules – iron gray , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 70 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 570 - 30 • 85 mg Capsules – white , ( imprinted with “ MLR - 02 ” and “ 85 mg ” ) Bottles of 30 .........................................
… … … … … … … … … … … … NDC 72912 - 585 - 30 Storage and Handling Store between 20º C to 25º C ( 68º F to 77º F ) ; excursions permitted from 15º C to 30º C ( 59º F to 86º F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired ADHANSIA XR by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix ADHANSIA XR with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard ADHANSIA XR in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / High Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients and their caregivers that ADHANSIA XR is a federally controlled substance , and it can be abused and lead to dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , and 9 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients that they should not give ADHANSIA XR to anyone else .
Advise patients to store ADHANSIA XR in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients and their caregivers to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients and their caregivers to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired ADHANSIA XR by a medicine take - back program if available [ Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients , caregivers , and their family members that there is a potential serious cardiovascular risk including sudden death , myocardial infarction , and stroke with ADHANSIA XR use .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Advise patients and their caregivers that ADHANSIA XR can cause elevations of their blood pressure and pulse rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients and their caregivers that ADHANSIA XR , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without prior history of psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients , caregivers , and family members of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct them to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes [ Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon ] • Instruct patients about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking ADHANSIA XR .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients , families and caregivers that ADHANSIA XR may cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients and their caregivers that ADHANSIA XR can be taken with or without food .
For patients who take ADHANSIA XR sprinkled over a tablespoon of applesauce or yogurt , the contents of the entire capsule should be consumed immediately or within 10 minutes of mixing ; it should not be stored .
Patients should take the applesauce or yogurt with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing .
When initiating treatment with ADHANSIA XR , provide dosage escalation and administration instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Alcohol Effect Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking ADHANSIA XR .
Consumption of alcohol while taking ADHANSIA XR may result in a more rapid release of the dose of methylphenidate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHANSIA XR during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Marketed by : Adlon Therapeutics L . P . Stamford , CT 06901 - 3431 A subsidiary of Purdue Pharma L . P . Manufactured by : Purdue Pharmaceuticals L . P . Wilson , NC 27893 ADHANSIA XR ® is a registered trademark of Purdue Pharma L . P . U . S . Patent Numbers : 9 , 974 , 752 ; 10 , 111 , 839 ; 10 , 292 , 938 ; 10 , 292 , 939 ; 10 , 449 , 159 ; 10 , 500 , 162 ; 10 , 507 , 186 ; 10 , 512 , 612 ; 10 , 512 , 613 ; 10 , 568 , 841 ; 10 , 688 , 060 and 10 , 722 , 473 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 6 / 2021 MEDICATION GUIDE ADHANSIA ( ad han ' see ah ) XR ® ( methylphenidate hydrochloride ) extended - release capsules , CII What is the most important information I should know about ADHANSIA XR ?
ADHANSIA XR can cause serious side effects , including : • Abuse and dependence .
ADHANSIA XR , other methylphenidate containing medicines , and amphetamines have a high chance for abuse and can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Your healthcare provider should check you or your child for signs of abuse and dependence before and during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
• Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Heart - related problems , including : • sudden death , stroke , and heart attack in adults • sudden death in children who have heart problems or heart defects • increased blood pressure and heart rate Your healthcare provider should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or have a family history of these problems .
Your healthcare provider should check your or your child ’ s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you or your child have any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
• Mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , or seeing or believing things that are not real ) or new manic symptoms Tell your healthcare provider about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems during treatment with ADHANSIA XR , especially hearing voices , seeing or believing things that are not real , or new manic symptoms .
What is ADHANSIA XR ?
ADHANSIA XR is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in people 6 years of age and older .
ADHANSIA XR may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in people with ADHD .
It is not known if ADHANSIA XR is safe and effective in children under 6 years of age .
ADHANSIA XR is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains methylphenidate that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep ADHANSIA XR in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your ADHANSIA XR to anyone else , because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away ADHANSIA XR may harm others and is against the law .
Do not take ADHANSIA XR if you or your child are : • allergic to methylphenidate hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in ADHANSIA XR .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ADHANSIA XR .
• taking , or have stopped taking within the past 14 days , a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Before taking ADHANSIA XR tell your healthcare provider about all medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have heart problems , heart defects , or high blood pressure • have mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression , or have a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression • have circulation problems in fingers and toes • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ADHANSIA XR will harm the unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to ADHANSIA XR during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to ADHANSIA XR and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with ADHANSIA XR , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
ADHANSIA XR passes into breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed the baby during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines that you or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
ADHANSIA XR and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be changed during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
Your healthcare provider will decide whether ADHANSIA XR can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child take a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Know the medicines that you or your child take .
Keep a list of the medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine during treatment with ADHANSIA XR without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should ADHANSIA XR be taken ?
• Take ADHANSIA XR exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose if needed .
• Take ADHANSIA XR by mouth 1 time each day in the morning .
• ADHANSIA XR can be taken with or without food , but take it the same way each time .
• Swallow ADHANSIA XR capsules whole .
If ADHANSIA XR capsules cannot be swallowed whole , the capsules may be opened and sprinkled onto a tablespoonful of applesauce or yogurt .
Make sure to sprinkle all the medicine onto the applesauce or yogurt .
The ADHANSIA XR dose should not be divided .
• swallow all the applesauce or yogurt and medicine mixture without chewing right away or within 10 minutes • do not chew the applesauce or yogurt • do not store applesauce or yogurt and medicine mixture • Your healthcare provider may sometimes stop ADHANSIA XR treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• If a dose of ADHANSIA XR is missed do not take the dose later in the day or take an extra dose to make up for the missed dose , wait until the next morning to take the next scheduled dose .
In case of poisoning call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should be avoided during treatment with ADHANSIA XR ?
Avoid drinking alcohol during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
This may cause a faster release of the ADHANSIA XR medicine .
What are possible side effects of ADHANSIA XR ?
ADHANSIA XR can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about ADHANSIA XR ? ”
• Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) .
Priapism has happened in males who take products that contain methylphenidate .
If you or your child develop priapism , get medical help right away .
• Circulation problems in fingers and toes ( peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon ) .
Signs and symptoms may include : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes .
Call your healthcare provider right away if your child have any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes during treatment with ADHANSIA XR .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children .
Children should have their height and weight checked often while taking ADHANSIA XR .
ADHANSIA XR treatment may be stopped if your child is not growing or gaining weight .
• FD & C Yellow No . 5 .
ADHANSIA XR 45 mg capsules contain FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain people , especially people who also have an allergy to aspirin .
The most common side effects in adults include trouble sleeping , dry mouth , nausea , and decreased appetite .
The most common side effects of ADHANSIA XR in children include decreased appetite , trouble sleeping , and decreased weight .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ADHANSIA XR ?
• Store ADHANSIA XR at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store ADHANSIA XR in a safe place , like a locked cabinet .
Protect from light and moisture .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired ADHANSIA XR by a medication take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix ADHANSIA XR with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away ADHANSIA XR in the household trash .
Keep ADHANSIA XR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ADHANSIA XR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ADHANSIA XR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ADHANSIA XR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ADHANSIA XR that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in ADHANSIA XR ?
Active Ingredient : methylphenidate hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : ammonio methacrylate copolymer dispersion ( type B ) , anionic copolymer ( consisting of methyl acrylate , methyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid ) , glyceryl monostearate , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , silicon dioxide , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sorbic acid , sugar spheres , triethyl citrate Manufactured by : Purdue Pharmaceuticals L . P . , Wilson , NC 27893 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Purdue Pharma L . P . at 1 - 888 - 726 - 7535 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
ADHANSIA XR 25 mg NDC : 72912 - 525 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADHANSIA XR 35 mg NDC : 72912 - 535 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADHANSIA XR 45 mg NDC : 72912 - 545 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADHANSIA XR 55 mg NDC : 72912 - 555 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADHANSIA XR 70 mg NDC : 72912 - 570 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADHANSIA XR 85 mg NDC : 72912 - 585 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
