1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GELNIQUE is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency and frequency [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
GELNIQUE is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The contents of one sachet or one actuation of the metered - dose pump of GELNIQUE should be applied once daily to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , upper arms / shoulders , or thighs .
Application sites should be rotated .
Application of GELNIQUE should not be made to the same site on consecutive days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
• Apply contents of one sachet or one actuation of the metered - dose pump of GELNIQUE once daily to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , upper arms / shoulders , or thighs .
( 2 ) • Rotate application sites , avoiding use of the same site on consecutive days .
( 2 ) • GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel : 10 % Gel : 10 % 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of GELNIQUE is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Urinary retention • Gastric retention • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma • Known serious hypersensitivity reaction to GELNIQUE , oxybutynin , or to any of the components of GELNIQUE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Urinary retention ( 4 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( 4 ) • Known serious hypersensitivity reaction to GELNIQUE , oxybutynin , or to any of the components of GELNIQUE ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Urinary Retention : Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Disorders : Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention .
Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and / or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
( 5 . 2 ) • Angioedema : Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use .
If symptoms of angioedema occur , discontinue GELNIQUE and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Skin Hypersensitivity : Discontinue GELNIQUE in patients with skin hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 4 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with GELNIQUE .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE affects them .
( 5 . 5 ) • Skin Transference : Advise patients to cover the application site with clothing if skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated .
Wash hands immediately after product application .
( 5 . 6 ) • Flammable Gel : Contains alcohol - based gel .
Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried .
( 5 . 7 ) • Myasthenia gravis : Avoid use in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Urinary Retention Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] 5 . 2 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer GELNIQUE with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] GELNIQUE , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony .
GELNIQUE should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
5 . 3 Angioedema Angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment has occurred with the first or subsequent doses of oral oxybutynin .
In the event of angioedema , oxybutynin - containing product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided .
5 . 4 Skin Hypersensitivity In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization , 1 of 200 patients ( 0 . 5 % ) demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE .
Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE should discontinue drug treatment .
5 . 5 Central Nervous System Effects GELNIQUE is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including headache , dizziness , somnolence , confusion and hallucinations .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE affects them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , drug discontinuation should be considered .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] 5 . 6 Skin Transference Transfer of oxybutynin to another person can occur when vigorous skin - to - skin contact is made with the application site .
To minimize the potential transfer of oxybutynin from GELNIQUE - treated skin to another person , patients should cover the application site with clothing after the gel has dried if direct skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should wash their hands immediately after application of GELNIQUE .
5 . 7 Flammable Gel GELNIQUE is an alcohol - based gel and is therefore flammable .
Avoid open fire or smoking until gel has dried .
5 . 8 Exacerbation of Symptoms of Myasthenia Gravis Avoid use of GELNIQUE in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
If experiencing exacerbation of symptoms of myasthenia gravis , oxybutynin - containing product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 5 % and > placebo ) were dry mouth , urinary tract infection , and application site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety of GELNIQUE was evaluated in 789 patients ( 389 randomized to GELNIQUE 1 g and 400 randomized to placebo ) during a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , 12 - week clinical efficacy and safety study .
A subset of these 789 patients ( N = 216 ) participated in the 14 - week open - label safety extension that followed the placebo - controlled study .
Of 216 patients in the safety extension , 107 were randomized to placebo gel during the double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study .
In the combined double - blind , placebo - controlled study and the open - label safety extension , a total of 496 patients were exposed to at least one dose of GELNIQUE .
Four hundred thirty - one ( 431 ) patients received at least 12 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment and 85 patients received 26 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment .
The study population primarily consisted of Caucasian women ( approximately 90 % ) with an average age of 59 years who had overactive bladder with urge urinary incontinence .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions that were reported in the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study in greater than 2 % of patients treated with GELNIQUE and at an incidence greater than placebo .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions in the Randomized , Double - blind , Placebo - controlled 12 - Week Study ( > 2 % and > placebo ) Adverse Reaction GELNIQUE 1 gram N = 389 n ( % ) Placebo N = 400 n ( % ) Dry mouth 29 ( 7 . 5 ) 11 ( 2 . 8 ) Urinary tract infection 27 ( 6 . 9 ) 17 ( 4 . 3 ) Application site reactions * 21 ( 5 . 4 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 21 ( 5 . 4 ) 20 ( 5 . 0 ) Dizziness 11 ( 2 . 8 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Nasopharyngitis 11 ( 2 . 8 ) 9 ( 2 . 3 ) Fatigue 8 ( 2 . 1 ) 4 ( 1 . 0 ) Gastroenteritis viral 8 ( 2 . 1 ) 7 ( 1 . 8 ) * Includes application site pruritus , dermatitis , papules , anesthesia , erythema , irritation , pain and papules Other common adverse reactions that were reported in ≥ 1 % of GELNIQUE - treated patients were headache ( 1 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 3 % ) , and pruritus ( 1 . 3 % ) .
Application site pruritus ( 2 . 1 % ) and application site dermatitis ( 1 . 8 % ) were the most commonly reported application site reactions .
A majority of adverse reactions were described as mild or moderate in intensity , except for two patients reporting severe headache .
The most common adverse reaction leading to drug discontinuation was application site reaction ( 0 . 8 % with GELNIQUE versus 0 . 3 % with placebo ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported during the 14 - week open - label extension study were application site reactions ( 6 . 0 % ) and dry mouth ( 1 . 9 % ) .
The most common reason for premature discontinuation was application site reactions ( 9 patients or 4 . 2 % ) .
Two of these 9 patients experienced application site reactions of severe intensity ( dermatitis , urticaria , and erythema ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of GELNIQUE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Nervous System Disorders : Memory impairment , dizziness , somnolence , confusion Psychiatric Disorders : Delirium , hallucinations 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug - drug interaction studies have been performed with GELNIQUE .
Other Anticholinergics ( muscarinic antagonists ) : Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of GELNIQUE with other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision , somnolence and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
7 . 2 Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors Pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with patients concomitantly receiving cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no studies with topical or oral oxybutynin use in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks of adverse development outcomes .
No adverse developmental outcomes were observed in animal reproduction studies when oxybutynin chloride was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at approximately 50 and 1 times , respectively , the maximum human dose based on body surface area ( see Data ) .
In the general U . S . population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % respectively .
Data Animal Data Subcutaneous administration of oxybutynin chloride to rats at doses up to 25 mg / kg ( approximately 50 times the human exposure based on body surface area ) and to rabbits at doses up to 0 . 4 mg / kg ( approximately 1 times the human exposure based on body surface area ) throughout the period of organogenesis revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of oxybutynin or its metabolites in human milk , its effects on milk production or on the breast fed child .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for GELNIQUE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from GELNIQUE or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of GELNIQUE 10 % have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 496 patients exposed to GELNIQUE in the randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 12 - week study and the 14 - week safety extension study , 188 patients ( 38 % ) were 65 years of age and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with oxybutynin has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Oral ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 - year - old boy who experienced memory loss , and in a 34 - year - old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients recovered fully with symptomatic treatment .
Plasma concentrations of oxybutynin begin to decline 24 hours after GELNIQUE application .
If overexposure occurs , monitor patients until symptoms resolve .
11 DESCRIPTION Oxybutynin is an antispasmodic , antimuscarinic agent .
GELNIQUE ( oxybutynin chloride ) is a clear and colorless hydroalcoholic gel containing 100 mg oxybutynin chloride per gram of gel .
GELNIQUE is available in a metered - dose pump that dispenses 30 metered 1 gram doses or in a 1 gram ( 1 . 14 mL ) unit dose .
Each dose contains 100 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Oxybutynin is delivered as a racemate of R - and S - isomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 - butynyl ( ± ) - α - phenylcyclohexaneglycolate hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin is C22H31NO3 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white powder with a molecular weight of 393 . 95 .
Inactive ingredients in GELNIQUE are alcohol , USP ; glycerin , USP ; hydroxypropyl cellulose , NF ; sodium hydroxide , NF ; and purified water , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxybutynin acts as a competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at postganglionic muscarinic receptors , resulting in relaxation of bladder smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin is a racemic ( 50 : 50 ) mixture of R - and S - isomers .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly with the R - isomer .
The active metabolite , N - desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity on the human detrusor muscle that is similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Oxybutynin is transported across intact skin and into the systemic circulation by passive diffusion across the stratum corneum .
Steady - state concentrations are achieved within 7 days of continuous dosing .
Absorption of oxybutynin is similar when GELNIQUE is applied to the abdomen , upper arm / shoulders or thighs .
Mean plasma concentrations during a randomized , crossover study of the three recommended application sites in 39 healthy men and women are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Average steady - state plasma oxybutynin concentrations were 4 . 7 , 5 . 2 , and 5 . 5 ng / mL for the abdomen , upper arm / shoulder and thigh application sites , respectively ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Mean ( SD ) steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters for oxybutynin following GELNIQUE application to the abdomen , upper arm / shoulder and thigh ( N = 39 ) .
Application Site AUC0 - 24 ( ng • hr / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Cavg ( ng / mL ) Abdomen 112 . 7 ( 58 . 00 ) 6 . 8 ( 3 . 93 ) 4 . 7 ( 2 . 39 ) Upper Arm / Shoulder 133 . 8 ( 81 . 58 ) 8 . 3 ( 5 . 97 ) 5 . 5 ( 3 . 37 ) Thigh 125 . 1 ( 84 . 67 ) 7 . 0 ( 4 . 95 ) 5 . 2 ( 3 . 50 ) Distribution Oxybutynin is widely distributed in body tissues following systemic absorption .
The volume of distribution was estimated to be 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 , found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Metabolites include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and N - desethyloxybutynin ( DEO ) , which is pharmacologically active .
Transdermal administration of oxybutynin bypasses the first - pass gastrointestinal and hepatic metabolism , reducing the formation of the N - desethyloxybutynin metabolite .
Only small amounts of CYP3A4 are found in skin , limiting pre - systemic metabolism during transdermal absorption .
The AUC ratio of N - desethyloxybutynin metabolite to parent compound following multiple transdermal applications is approximately 1 : 1 for GELNIQUE .
Following intravenous administration , the elimination half - life of oxybutynin is approximately 2 hours .
After the final steady - state dose of GELNIQUE , oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin demonstrated biphasic elimination with plasma concentrations beginning to decrease 24 hours after dosing .
Elimination was more rapid between 24 and 48 hours after dosing , during which time plasma concentrations of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin declined by about one - half .
This rapid elimination phase was followed by a more prolonged terminal elimination phase .
The apparent elimination half - lives including the terminal elimination phase were 64 hours and 82 hours for oxybutynin and DEO , respectively .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite N - desethyloxybutynin .
Person - to - Person Transference The potential for dermal transfer of oxybutynin from a treated person to an untreated person was evaluated in a single - dose study where subjects dosed with GELNIQUE engaged in vigorous contact with an untreated partner for 15 minutes , either with ( N = 14 couples ) or without ( N = 12 couples ) clothing covering the application area .
The untreated partners not protected by clothing demonstrated detectable plasma concentrations of oxybutynin ( mean Cmax = 0 . 94 ng / mL ) .
Two of the 14 untreated subjects participating in the clothing - to - skin contact regimen had measurable oxybutynin plasma concentrations ( Cmax ≤ 0 . 1 ng / mL ) during the 48 hours following contact with treated subjects ; oxybutynin was not detectable with the remaining 12 untreated subjects .
Use of Sunscreen The effect of sunscreen on the absorption of oxybutynin when applied 30 minutes before or 30 minutes after GELNIQUE application was evaluated in a single - dose randomized crossover study ( N = 16 ) .
Concomitant application of sunscreen , either before or after GELNIQUE application , had no effect on the systemic exposure of oxybutynin .
Showering The effect of showering on the absorption of oxybutynin was evaluated in a randomized , steady - state crossover study under conditions of no shower , or showering 1 , 2 or 6 hours after GELNIQUE application ( N = 20 ) .
The results of the study indicate that showering after one hour does not affect the overall systemic exposure to oxybutynin .
Race The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of GELNIQUE has not been studied .
Specific Populations : Geriatric : Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on geriatric status in patients following administration of GELNIQUE [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin have not been evaluated in individuals younger than 18 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Gender : Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on gender in healthy volunteers following administration of GELNIQUE .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 and 160 mg / kg showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 and 50 times the maximum exposure in humans taking an oral dose , based on body surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomycespompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of GELNIQUE were evaluated in a single randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group 12 - week study for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge incontinence , urgency and frequency .
Key entry criteria included adults with symptomatic overactive bladder with an average of ≥ 4 incontinence episodes in a 3 - day period and at least 8 micturitions per day .
Patients were randomized to daily applications of GELNIQUE 1 gram or matching placebo gel .
A total of 389 patients received GELNIQUE and 400 patients received placebo gel .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 86 . 3 % ) and female ( 89 . 2 % ) , with a mean age of 59 . 4 years ( range : 18 to 88 years ) .
The average duration of urinary incontinence was approximately 8 . 5 years and approximately 75 % of patients had no prior pharmacological treatment for urinary incontinence .
Patients treated with GELNIQUE experienced a statistically significant decrease in the number of urinary incontinence episodes per day from baseline to endpoint compared with placebo ( p < 0 . 0001 ) as well as a decrease in the average daily urinary frequency ( p = 0 . 0017 ) and an increase in the average urine volume per void ( p = 0 . 0018 ) .
Mean and median change from baseline in daily incontinence episodes ( primary endpoint ) , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume ( secondary endpoints ) between placebo and GELNIQUE are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean and median change from baseline for incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume at Week 12 ( LOCF * ) .
Parameter GELNIQUE 1 gram ( N = 389 ) Placebo ( N = 400 ) Mean ( SD ) Median Mean ( SD ) Median Daily Incontinence Episodes Baseline 5 . 4 ( 3 . 26 ) 4 . 7 5 . 4 ( 3 . 28 ) 4 . 7 Change from baseline - 3 . 0 ( 2 . 73 ) - 2 . 7 - 2 . 5 ( 3 . 06 ) - 2 . 0 Mean difference [ GELNIQUE – placebo ] ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 5 ( - 0 . 14 , - 0 . 87 ) P - value vs . placebo < 0 . 0001 Daily Urinary Frequency Baseline 12 . 4 ( 3 . 34 ) 11 . 7 12 . 2 ( 3 . 32 ) 11 . 3 Change from baseline - 2 . 7 ( 3 . 21 ) - 2 . 7 - 2 . 0 ( 2 . 82 ) - 1 . 7 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 0017 Urinary Void Volume ( mL ) Baseline 163 . 4 ( 65 . 85 ) 160 . 1 167 . 9 ( 68 . 40 ) 160 . 6 Change from Baseline 21 . 0 ( 65 . 33 ) 11 . 5 3 . 8 ( 53 . 79 ) 0 . 0 P - value vs . placebo 0 . 0018 * Last - Observation - Carried - Forward statistical imputation for missing data 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metered - Dose Pump : Metered - dose pump dispenser capable of delivering 30 metered 1 gram doses .
Carton of 1 metered - dose Pump ( NDC 0023 - 5812 - 30 ) Unit Dose : Heat - sealed sachet containing 1 gram ( 1 . 14 mL ) of GELNIQUE gel for topical use .
Carton of 30 Sachets ( NDC 0023 - 5861 - 11 ) Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from moisture and humidity .
Apply immediately after the sachets are opened and contents expelled or dose delivered from dispenser .
Discard used sachets and empty dispensers in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by children , pets , or others .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] ( Patient Information ) Instructions for Use GELNIQUE is for topical application only and should not be ingested .
GELNIQUE should not be applied to recently shaved skin surfaces .
Patients should wash hands immediately after product application .
Application sites should not be subject to showering or water immersion for 1 hour after product application .
Application sites should be covered with clothing if close skin - to - skin contact at the application site is anticipated .
Alcohol based gels are flammable .
Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried .
Important Anticholinergic Adverse Reactions Patients should be informed that anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , such as GELNIQUE , may produce clinically significant adverse reactions related to anticholinergic pharmacological activity including : • Urinary retention and constipation .
• Heat prostration ( due to decreased sweating ) when anticholinergics such as GELNIQUE are used in a hot environment .
• Dizziness or blurred vision .
Patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until GELNIQUE ’ s effects have been determined .
• Drowsiness that may be worsened by alcohol .
Distributed By : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2019 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Gelnique ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC .
v1 . 1USPI5812 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION GELNIQUE [ JEL NEEK ] ( oxybutynin chloride ) 10 % gel Topical IMPORTANT : For use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use GELNIQUE in or near your eyes , nose , or mouth .
What is GELNIQUE ?
GELNIQUE is a prescription medicine used to treat the symptoms of overactive bladder : • Urge urinary incontinence ( a strong need to urinate with leaking or wetting accidents ) .
• Urgency ( a strong need to urinate right away ) .
• Frequency ( need to urinate often ) .
Do not use GELNIQUE if : • your bladder does not empty or does not empty completely when you urinate ( urinary retention ) .
• your stomach empties slowly or incompletely after a meal ( gastric retention ) .
• you have uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( high pressure in your eye ) .
Tell your doctor if you have glaucoma or a family history of glaucoma .
• you are allergic to oxybutynin or any of the ingredients in GELNIQUE .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in GELNIQUE .
Before using GELNIQUE , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including , if you : • have problems emptying your bladder completely • have a gastrointestinal obstruction ( blockage in the digestive system ) • have constipation or difficulty emptying your bowels o have ulcerative colitis ( inflamed bowels ) o have gastroesophageal reflux disease or esophagitis ( inflamed esophagus , the tube between your mouth and stomach ) • have Myasthenia Gravis ( condition that causes muscle weakness ) • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed • medicines called “ bisphosphonates ” to treat osteoporosis • medicines called “ anticholinergics ” Especially tell your doctor if you take : Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if you take any of these medicines .
Know the medicines you take including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use GELNIQUE ?
• GELNIQUE is for skin use only .
• Use GELNIQUE exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• GELNIQUE should only be applied to dry intact skin on your stomach ( abdomen ) , upper arms , shoulders , or thighs .
• Do not put GELNIQUE on open sores , recently shaved skin , or skin with rashes .
• You should change your application site every day .
Do not use the same site 2 days in a row .
Changing application sites every day can help reduce your chance of getting skin irritation .
• GELNIQUE contains alcohol and is flammable .
Avoid fire , flames or smoking until GELNIQUE has dried .
• After applying GELNIQUE , wash your hands with soap and water right away .
• Cover the application site with clothing if skin - to - skin contact between another person and the application site is expected .
• If someone else is exposed to GELNIQUE by direct contact with the gel or at the application site , that person should wash the area of contact with soap and water as soon as possible .
• If you get GELNIQUE in your eyes , rinse your eyes right away with warm , clean water to flush out any GELNIQUE .
• GELNIQUE may be used with sunscreen .
Applying GELNIQUE : 1 .
Selecting your application site : Apply GELNIQUE only to 1 of the shaded areas shown in the figure below : ( See Figure A ) • stomach ( abdomen ) • upper arms • shoulder • thigh Figure A : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wash the area where GELNIQUE will be applied with mild soap and water .
Allow the area to dry completely .
• Wash your hands with soap and water .
2 .
How to use the GELNIQUE packets ( sachets ) : • Find the notch at the top of your GELNIQUE packet .
Tear off the top of the GELNIQUE packet at the notch ( See Figure B ) .
Figure B : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Squeeze all of the GELNIQUE out of the packet onto your hand ( palm or fingertips ) or you can squeeze all of the GELNIQUE from the packet right onto the application site ( See Figure C ) .
• Squeeze from the bottom of the packet toward the open end .
Repeat until the packet is empty .
The amount of GELNIQUE in each packet will be about the size of a nickel .
Apply GELNIQUE to your skin ( shown in Figure C ) .
Figure C : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wash your hands with soap and water right away .
• Throw away the packet in the trash out of the reach of children to avoid accidental exposure .
3 .
How to use the GELNIQUE pump : You must prime the GELNIQUE pump before you use it for the first time .
To prime the pump : • To prime GELNIQUE , hold the pump upright ( see Figure D ) and fully press down ( depress ) the pump several times with your thumb or index finger until you see gel come out ( typically , this will take four or more depressions ) .
After gel is observed , fully depress the pump one more time , and discard this portion of the product to assure precise dose delivery .
The pump is now primed and GELNIQUE is ready to use .
Figure D : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dispensing your dose of GELNIQUE : • Place your hand under the GELNIQUE pump ( see Figure E ) .
Press the pump all the way down 1 time .
You can also place the pump right over the application site then press the pump all the way down 1 time to dispense your dose .
The amount of gel dispensed with one full pump equals one daily dose of GELNIQUE .
• The amount of gel that equals your dose will be about the size of a nickel .
Figure E : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Apply the gel to your skin in the selected body area ( see Figure A ) and wash your hands with soap and water right away .
• After you have used GELNIQUE pump 30 times , throw it away .
What should I avoid while using GELNIQUE ?
• GELNIQUE can cause tiredness , drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how GELNIQUE affects you .
• Do not take a bath , swim , shower , exercise , or get the application site wet for at least 1 hour after you apply your dose .
What are the possible side effects of GELNIQUE ?
GELNIQUE can cause serious side effects including : • Allergic reactions , including allergic skin reactions The most common side effects of GELNIQUE include : • dry mouth • redness , rash , itching , pain at the application site • dizziness • headache • constipation • itching • tiredness • Other side effects that have been seen with drugs containing oxybutynin , like GELNIQUE , include : dizziness and blurred vision , drowsiness that may be increased with alcohol ( beer , wine , or hard liquor ) , and decreased sweating that may lead to overheating .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of GELNIQUE .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store GELNIQUE ?
• Store GELNIQUE at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away GELNIQUE in household trash .
Be careful to prevent accidental exposure to children or pets .
• Keep GELNIQUE metered - dose pump and sachets in a dry place .
Keep GELNIQUE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about GELNIQUE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use GELNIQUE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give GELNIQUE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about GELNIQUE that is written for health professionals .
For more information about GELNIQUE call 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or go to www . GELNIQUE . com What are the ingredients of GELNIQUE ?
Active Ingredient : oxybutynin chloride Inactive Ingredients : alcohol , USP ; glycerin , USP ; hydroxypropyl cellulose , NF ; sodium hydroxide , NF ; and purified water , USP .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed By : Allergan USA , Inc .
Madison , NJ 07940 © 2019 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Gelnique ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC .
Revised : 03 / 2019 v1 . 1PPI5812 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Gelnique ® ( oxybutynin chloride ) Gel , 10 % Carton 1 Pump NDC 0023 - 5812 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Gelnique ® ( oxybutynin chloride ) Gel , 10 % Carton 30 Sachets NDC 0023 - 5861 - 11 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
