DESCRIPTION Amlodipine besylate , USP is a long - acting calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine besylate , USP is chemically described as 3 - Ethyl - 5 - methyl ( ± ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - aminoethoxy ) methy l ] - 4 - ( 2 - c h l o r o p h e ny l ) - 1 , 4 - d i hydro - 6 - methy l - 3 , 5 - py r i d i n e d i c a r b ox y l a t e , monobenzenesulphonate .
Its molecular formula is C20H25CIN2O5 • C6H6O3S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amlodipine besylate , USP is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 567 . 1 .
It is slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Amlodipine besylate tablets are formulated as white tablets equivalent to 2 . 5 , 5 and 10 mg of amlodipine for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , amlodipine besylate , USP , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , sodium starch glycolate , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow - channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitrobut such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
The precise mechanisms by which amlodipine relieves angina have not been fully delineated , but are thought to include the following : Exertional Angina : In patients with exertional angina , amlodipine besylate reduces the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works and reduces the rate pressure product , and thus myocardial oxygen demand , at any given level of exercise .
Vasospastic Angina : Amlodipine besylate has been demonstrated to block constriction and restore blood flow in coronary arteries and arterioles in response to calcium , potassium epinephrine , serotonin , and thromboxane A2 analog in experimental animal models and in human coronary vessels in vitro .
This inhibition of coronary spasm is responsible for the effectiveness of amlodipine besylate in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ’ s or variant ) angina .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After oral administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine besylate , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 90 % .
The bioavailability of amlodipine besylate is not altered by the presence of food .
Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism with 10 % of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites excreted in the urine .
Ex vivostudies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 - 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with renal failure may therefore receive the usual initial dose .
Elderly patients and patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 - 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
A similar increase in AUC was observed in patients with moderate to severe heart failure .
Pediatric Patients Sixty - two hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years received doses of amlodipine besylate between 1 . 25 mg and 20 mg . Weight - adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values in adults .
Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamics Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine besylate produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
Although the acute intravenous administration of amlodipine decreases arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in hemodynamic studies of patients with chronic stable angina , chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical trials did not lead to clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressures in normotensive patients with angina .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine besylate is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 - 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 - 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / – 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine besylate resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine besylate have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine besylate has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when co - administered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normals or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Electrophysiologic Effects : Amlodipine besylate does not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In patients with chronic stable angina , intravenous administration of 10 mg did not significantly alter A - H and H - V conduction and sinus node recovery time after pacing .
Similar results were obtained in patients receiving amlodipine besylate and concomitant beta blockers .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine besylate was administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
In clinical trials with angina patients alone , amlodipine besylate therapy did not alter electrocardiographic intervals or produce higher degrees of AV blocks .
Clinical Studies Effects in Hypertension Adult Patients : The antihypertensive efficacy of amlodipine besylate has been demonstrated in a total of 15 double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies involving 800 patients on amlodipine besylate and 538 on placebo .
Once daily administration produced statistically significant placebocorrected reductions in supine and standing blood pressures at 24 hours postdose , averaging about 12 / 6 mmHg in the standing position and 13 / 7 mmHg in the supine position in patients with mild to moderate hypertension .
Maintenance of the blood pressure effect over the 24 - hour dosing interval was observed , with little difference in peak and trough effect .
Tolerance was not demonstrated in patients studied for up to 1 year .
The 3 parallel , fixed dose , dose response studies showed that the reduction in supine and standing blood pressures was dose - related within the recommended dosing range .
Effects on diastolic pressure were similar in young and older patients .
The effect on systolic pressure was greater in older patients , perhaps because of greater baseline systolic pressure .
Effects were similar in black patients and in white patients .
Pediatric Patients : Two - hundred sixty - eight hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years were randomized first to amlodipine besylate 2 . 5 or 5 mg once daily for 4 weeks and then randomized again to the same dose or to placebo for another 4 weeks .
Patients receiving 5 mg at the end of 8 weeks had lower blood pressure than those secondarily randomized to placebo .
The magnitude of the treatment effect is difficult to interpret , but it is probably less than 5 mmHg systolic on the 5 mg dose .
Adverse events were similar to those seen in adults .
Effects in Chronic Stable Angina : The effectiveness of 5 to 10 mg / day of amlodipine besylate in exercise - induced angina has been evaluated in 8 placebo - controlled , double - blind clinical trials of up to 6 weeks duration involving 1038 patients ( 684 amlodipine besylate , 354 placebo ) with chronic stable angina .
In 5 of the 8 studies significant increases in exercise time ( bicycle or treadmill ) were seen with the 10 mg dose .
Increases in symptom - limited exercise time averaged 12 . 8 % ( 63 sec ) for amlodipine besylate 10 mg , and averaged 7 . 9 % ( 38 sec ) for amlodipine besylate 5 mg .
Amlodipine besylate 10 mg also increased time to 1 mm ST segment deviation in several studies and decreased angina attack rate .
The sustained efficacy of amlodipine besylate in angina patients has been demonstrated over long - term dosing .
In patients with angina there were no clinically significant reductions in blood pressures ( 4 / 1 mmHg ) or changes in heart rate ( + 0 . 3 bpm ) .
Effects in Vasospastic Angina : In a double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 4 weeks duration in 50 patients , amlodipine besylate therapy decreased attacks by approximately 4 / week compared with a placebo decrease of approximately 1 / week ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Two of 23 amlodipine besylate and 7 of 27 placebo patients discontinued from the study due to lack of clinical improvement .
Studies in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure : Amlodipine besylate has been compared to placebo in four 8 - 12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II / III heart failure , involving a total of 697 patients .
In these studies , there was no evidence of worsened heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance , NYHA classification , symptoms , or left ventricular ejection fraction .
In a long - term ( follow - up at least 6 months , mean 13 . 8 months ) placebo - controlled mortality / morbidity study of amlodipine besylate 5 to 10 mg in 1153 patients with NYHA classes III ( n = 93 1 ) or IV ( n = 222 ) heart failure on stable doses of diuretics , digoxin , and ACE inhibitors , amlodipine besylate had no effect on the primary endpoint of the study which was the combined endpoint of all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity ( as defined by life - threatening arrhythmia , acute myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for worsened heart failure ) , or on NYHA classification , or symptoms of heart failure .
Total combined all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity events were 222 / 571 ( 39 % ) for patients on amlodipine besylate and 246 / 583 ( 42 % ) for patients on placebo ; the cardiac morbid events represented about 25 % of the endpoints in the study .
Another study ( PRAISE - 2 ) randomized patients with NYHA class III ( 80 % ) or IV ( 20 % ) heart failure without clinical symptoms or objective evidence of underlying ischemic disease , on stable doses of ACE inhibitor ( 99 % ) , digitalis ( 99 % ) and diuretics ( 99 % ) , to placebo ( n = 827 ) or amlodipine besylate ( n = 827 ) and followed them for a mean of 33 months .
There was no statistically significant difference between amlodipine besylate and placebo in the primary endpoint of all cause mortality ( 95 % confidence limits from 8 % reduction to 29 % increase on amlodipine besylate ) .
With amlodipine besylate there were more reports of pulmonary edema .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 .
Hypertension Amlodipine besylate is indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
2 .
Coronary Artery Disease Cronic Stable Angina Amlodipine besylate is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina .
Amlodipine besylate may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Vasospastic Angina ( Prinzmetal ’ s or Variant Angina ) Amlodipine besylate is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
Amlodipine besylate may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Amlodipine besylate is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine .
WARNINGS Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction : Rarely , patients , particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease , have developed documented increased frequency , duration and / or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated .
PRECAUTIONS General : Since the vasodilation induced by amlodipine besylate is gradual in onset , acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration .
Nonetheless , caution as with any other peripheral vasodilator , should be exercised when administering amlodipine besylate , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Use in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure : In general , calcium channel blockers should be used with caution in patients with heart failure .
Amlodipine besylate ( 5 to 10 mg per day ) has been studied in a placebo - controlled trial of 1153 patients with NYHA Class III or IV heart failure ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) on stable doses of ACE inhibitor , digoxin , and diuretics .
Follow - up was at least 6 months , with a mean of about 14 months .
There was no overall adverse effect on survival or cardiac morbidity ( as defined by life - threatening arrhythmia , acute myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for worsened heart failure ) .
Amlodipine besylate has been compared to placebo in four 8 - 12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II / III heart failure , involving a total of 697 patients .
In these studies , there was no evidence of worsened heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance , NYHA classification , symptoms , or LVEF .
Beta - Blocker Withdrawal : Amlodipine besylate is not a beta - blocker and therefore gives no protection against the dangers of abrupt beta - blocker withdrawal ; any such withdrawal should be by gradual reduction of the dose of beta - blocker .
Patients with Hepatic Failure : Since amlodipine besylate is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function , caution should be exercised when administering amlodipine besylate to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Drug Interactions : In vitro data indicate that amlodipine besylate has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
Effect of other agents on Amlodipine besylate .
CIMETIDINE : Co - administration of amlodipine besylate with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine besylate .
GRAPEFRUIT JUICE : Co - administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the C6H6O3S pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
MAALOX ( antacid ) : Co - administration of the antacid Maalox with a single dose of amlodipine besylate had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine besylate .
SILDENAFIL : A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil ( Viagra ® ) in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine besylate .
When amlodipine besylate and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
Effect of Amlodipine besylate on other agents .
ATORVASTATIN : Co - administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine besylate with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
DIGOXIN : Co - administration of amlodipine besylate with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
ETHANOL ( alcohol ) : Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine besylate had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
WARFARIN : Co - administration of amlodipine besylate with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
In clinical trials , amlodipine besylate has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics , betablockers , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , long - acting nitrates , sublingual nitroglycerin , digoxin , warfarin , non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , antibiotics , and oral hypoglycemic drugs .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : None known .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 amlodipine mg / kg / day showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine / day * ) .
For the rat , the highest dose , was on a mg / m2 basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dose * .
Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( 8 times * the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Category C : No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( respectively 8 times * and 23 times * the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
However , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Amlodipine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
* Based on patient weight of 50 kg .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether amlodipine is excreted in human milk .
In the absence of this information , it is recommended that nursing be discontinued while amlodipine besylate is administered .
Pediatric Use : The effect of amlodipine besylate on blood pressure in patients less than 6 years of age is not known .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of amlodipine besylate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase of AUC of approximately 40 - 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Amlodipine besylate has been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
In general , treatment with amlodipine besylate was well - tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily .
Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine besylate were of mild or moderate severity .
In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine besylate ( N = 1730 ) in doses up to 10 mg to placebo ( N = 1250 ) , discontinuation of amlodipine besylate due to adverse reactions was required in only about 1 . 5 % of patients and was not significantly different from placebo ( about 1 % ) .
The most common side effects are headache and edema .
The incidence ( % ) of side effects which occurred in a dose related manner are as follows : Adverse Event 2 . 5 mg N = 275 5 mg N = 296 10 mg N = 268 Placebo N = 520 Edema 1 . 8 3 10 . 8 0 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 1 3 . 4 3 . 4 1 . 5 Flushing 0 . 7 1 . 4 2 . 6 0 Palpitation 0 . 7 1 . 4 4 . 5 0 . 6 Other adverse experiences which were not clearly dose related but which were reported with an incidence greater than 1 % in placebo - controlled clinical trials include the following : Placebo - Controlled Studies AMLODIPINE BESYLATE ( % ) ( N = 1730 ) PLACEBO ( % ) ( N = 1250 ) Headache 7 . 3 7 . 8 Fatigue 4 . 5 2 . 8 Nausea 2 . 9 1 . 9 Abdominal Pain 1 . 6 0 . 3 Somnolence 1 . 4 0 . 6 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug and dose related , there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table : AMLODIPINE BESYLATE PLACEBO Adverse Event Male = % ( N = 1218 ) Female = % ( N = 512 ) Male = % ( N = 914 ) Female = % ( N = 336 ) Edema 5 . 6 14 . 6 1 . 4 5 . 1 Flushing 1 . 5 4 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 9 Palpitations 1 . 4 3 . 3 0 . 9 0 . 9 Somnolence 1 . 3 1 . 6 0 . 8 0 . 3 The following events occurred in less than 1 % but greater than 0 . 1 % of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : arrhythmia ( including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , chest pain , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , syncope , tachycardia , postural dizziness , postural hypotension , vasculitis .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dyspepsia , ** dysphagia , diarrhea , flatulence , pancreatitis , vomiting , gingival hyperplasia .
General : allergic reaction , asthenia , ** back pain , hot flushes , malaise , pain , rigors , weight gain , weight decrease .
Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , muscle cramps , ** myalgia .
Psychiatric : sexual dysfunction ( male ** and female ) , insomnia , nervousness , depression , abnormal dreams , anxiety , depersonalization .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , * * epistaxis .
Skin and Appendages : angioedema , erythema multiforme , pruritus , ** rash , ** rash erythematous , rash maculopapular .
* * These events occurred in less than 1 % in placebo - controlled trials , but the incidence of these side effects was between 1 % and 2 % in all multiple dose studies .
Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye pain , tinnitus .
Urinary System : micturition frequency , micturition disorder , nocturia .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Hemopoietic : leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
The following events occurred in less than 0 . 1 % of patients : cardiac failure , pulse irregularity , extrasystoles , skin discoloration , urticaria , skin dryness , alopecia , dermatitis , muscle weakness , twitching , ataxia , hypertonia , migraine , cold and clammy skin , apathy , agitation , amnesia , gastritis , increased appetite , loose stools , coughing , rhinitis , dysuria , polyuria , parosmia , taste perversion , abnormal visual accommodation , and xerophthalmia .
Other reactions occurred sporadically and cannot be distinguished from medications or concurrent disease states such as myocardial infarction and angina .
Amlodipine besylate therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in serum potassium , serum glucose , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Amlodipine besylate has been used safely in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , well - compensated congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , and abnormal lipid profiles .
OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of amlodipine maleate equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional overdosage of amlodipine besylate is limited .
Reports of intentional overdosage include a patient who ingested 250 mg and was asymptomatic and was not hospitalized ; another ( 120 mg ) was hospitalized , underwent gastric lavage and remained normotensive ; the third ( 105 mg ) was hospitalized and had hypotension ( 90 / 50 mmHg ) which normalized following plasma expansion .
A case of accidental drug overdose has been documented in a 19 - month - old male who ingested 30 mg amlodipine ( about 2 mg / kg ) .
During the emergency room presentation , vital signs were stable with no evidence of hypotension , but a heart rate of 180 bpm .
Ipecac was administered 3 . 5 hours after ingestion and on subsequent observation ( overnight ) no sequelae were noted .
If massive overdose should occur , active cardiac and respiratory monitoring should be instituted .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids should be initiated .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) should be considered with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
Intravenous calcium gluconate may help to reverse the effects of calcium entry blockade .
As amlodipine besylate is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine besylate is 5 mg once daily with a maximum dose of 10 mg once daily .
Small , fragile , or elderly individuals , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2 . 5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine besylate to other antihypertensive therapy .
Dosage should be adjusted according to each patient ’ s need .
In general , titration should proceed over 7 to 14 days so that the physician can fully assess the patient ’ s response to each dose level .
Titration may proceed more rapidly , however , if clinically warranted , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg , with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS section for information related to dosage and side effects .
The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 to 10 mg once daily .
In clinical studies the majority of patients required 10 mg ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical studies ) .
Children : The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 - 17 years is 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg once daily .
Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .
Co - administration with Other Antihypertensive and / or Antianginal Drugs : Amlodipine besylate has been safely administered with thiazides , ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers , long - acting nitrates , and / or sublingual nitroglycerin .
HOW SUPPLIED Amlodipine besylate 2 . 5 mg Tablets ( amlodipine besylate , USP equivalent to 2 . 5 mg of amlodipine per tablet ) are supplied as white , round , flat - faced , beveled edged tablets debossed with IG on one side and 237 on the other and supplied as follows : NDC 31722 - 237 - 90 Bottle of 90 NDC 31722 - 237 - 10 Bottle of 1000 Amlodipine besylate 5 mg Tablets ( amlodipine besylate , USP equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine per tablet ) are supplied as white , round , flat - faced , beveled edged tablets debossed with IG on one side and 238 on the other and supplied as follows : NDC 31722 - 238 - 90 Bottle of 90 NDC 31722 - 238 - 10 Bottle of 1000 Amlodipine besylate 10 mg Tablets ( amlodipine besylate , USP equivalent to 10 mg of amlodipine per tablet ) are supplied as white , round , flat - faced , beveled edged tablets debossed with IG on one side and 239 on the other and supplied as follows : NDC 31722 - 239 - 90 Bottle of 90 NDC 31722 - 239 - 10 Bottle of 1000 Manufactured by : InvaGen Pharmaceuticals , Inc Hauppauge , NY 11788 Manufactured for : Camber Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Piscataway , NJ 08854 Rev : 09 / 07 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Hypertensa ™ PRODUCT INFORMATION Hypertensa ( U . S . patent pending ) capsules by oral administration .
A specially formulated Medical Food product , consisting of a proprietary blend of amino acids and polyphenol ingredients in specific proportions , for the dietary management of the metabolic processes associated with hypertension ( HT ) .
Must be administered under physician supervision .
Medical Foods Medical Food products are often used in hospitals ( e . g . , for burn victims or kidney dialysis patients ) and outside of a hospital setting under a physician ’ s care ( e . g . , for PKU , AIDS patients , cardiovascular disease , sleep disorders ) for the dietary management of diseases in patients with particular medical or metabolic needs due to their disease or condition .
Congress defined " Medical Food " in the Orphan Drug Act and Amendments of 1988 as " a system which is formulated to be consumed or administered enterally [ or orally ] under the supervision of a physician and which is intended for the specific dietary management f a disease or condition for which distinctive nutritional requirements , based on recognized scientific principles , are established by medical evaluation . "
Medical Foods are complex formulated products , requiring sophisticated and exacting technology .
Hypertensa has been developed , manufactured , and labeled in accordance with both the statutory and the FDA regulatory definition of a Medical Food .
Hypertensa must be used while the patient is under the ongoing care of a physician .
HYPERTENSION ( HT ) HT as a Metabolic Deficiency Disease A critical component of the definition of a Medical Food is the requirement for a distinctive nutritional deficiency .
FDA scientists have proposed a physiologic definition of a distinctive nutritional deficiency as follows : “ the dietary management of patients with specific diseases requires , in some instances , the ability to meet nutritional requirements that differ substantially from the needs of healthy persons .
For example , in establishing the recommended dietary allowances f r general , healthy population , the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine National Academy of Sciences , recognized that different or distinctive physiologic requirements may exist for certain persons with " special nutritional needs arising from metabolic disorders , chronic diseases , injuries , premature birth , other medical conditions and drug therapies .
Thus , the distinctive nutritional needs associated with a disease reflect the total amount needed by a healthy person to support life or maintain homeostasis , adjusted for the distinctive changes in the nutritional needs of the patient as a result of the effects of the disease process on absorption , metabolism and excretion . ”
It was also proposed that in patients with certain disease states who respond to nutritional therapies , a physiologic deficiency of the nutrient is assumed to exist .
For example , if a patient with hypertension responds to an arginine formulation by decreasing the blood pressure , a deficiency of arginine is assumed to exist .
Patients with hypertension are known to have nutritional deficiencies of arginine , choline , flavonoids , and certain antioxidants .
Patients with hypertension frequently exhibit reduced plasma levels of arginine and have been shown to respond to oral administration of an arginine formulation .
Research has shown that arginine reduced diets result in a fall of circulating arginine .
Patients with hypertension have activation of the arginase pathway that diverts arginine from the production of nitric oxide to production of deleterious nitrogen molecules such as peroxynitrite leading to a reduced level of production of nitric oxide for a given arginine blood level .
Research has also shown that a genetic predisposition can lead to increased arginine requirements in certain patients with hypertension .
Arginine is required to fully potentiate nitric oxide synthesis by the arterioles .
A deficiency of arginine leads to reduced nitric oxide production by the arterioles .
Low fat diets , frequently used by patients with hypertension , are usually arginine deficient .
Flavonoids potentiate the production of nitric oxide by the arterioles thereby reducing blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Low fat diets and diets deficient in flavonoid rich foods result in inadequate arginine and flavonoid concentrations , impeding nitric oxide production in certain patients with hypertension .
Provision of arginine , choline , and flavonoids with antioxidants , in the correct proportions can restore the production of beneficial nitric oxide , thereby reducing blood pressure .
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION Primary Ingredients Hypertensa consists of a proprietary blend of amino acids , cocoa , cinnamon and flavonoids in specific proportions .
These ingredients fall into the category of Generally Regarded as Safe ” ( GRAS ) as defined by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) ( Sections 201 ( s ) and 409 of the Federal Food , Drug , and Cosmetic Act ) .
A GRAS substance is distinguished from a food additive on the basis of the common knowledge about the safety of the substance for its intended use .
The standard for an ingredient to achieve GRAS status requires not only technical demonstration of non - toxicity and safety , but also general recognition of safety through widespread usage and agreement of that safety by experts in the field .
Many ingredients have been determined by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to be GRAS , and are listed as such by regulation , in Volume 21 Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Sections 182 , 184 , and 186 .
Amino Acids Amino Acids are the building blocks of proteins .
All amino acids are GRAS listed as they have been ingested by humans for thousands of years .
The doses of the amino acids in Hypertensa are equivalent to those found in the usual human diet .
Patients with hypertension may require an increased amount of certain amino acids that cannot be obtained from normal diet alone .
Arginine , for example , is a conditional amino acid .
The body can make arginine in the liver , but the liver produced arginine can only be used in the liver itself .
Arginine is needed to produce nitric oxide ( NO ) .
NO is required to dilate the constricted blood vessels that are the cause of high blood pressure .
Patients with hypertension have an increase in the enzyme , arginase that degrades arginine before it can be used to produce NO .
Some patients with hypertension have a resistance to the use of arginine that is similar to the mechanism found in insulin resistance that is genetically determined .
Patients with hypertension cannot acquire sufficient arginine from the diet without ingesting a prohibitively large amount of calories , particularly calories from protein .
.
Flavonoids Flavonoids are a group of phytochemical compounds found in all vascular plants including fruits and vegetables .
They are a part of a larger class of compounds known as polyphenols .
Many of the therapeutic or health benefits of colored fruits and vegetables , cocoa , red wine , and green tea are directly related to their flavonoid content .
The specially formulated flavonoids found in Hypertensa cannot be obtained from conventional foods in the necessary proportions to elicit a therapeutic response .
Other Ingredients Hypertensa contains the following “ inactive ” or other ingredients , as fillers , excipients , and colorings : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , Maltodextrin NF , gelatin ( as the capsule material ) , Physical Description Hypertensa is a yellow to light brown powder .
Hypertensa contains L - Glutamine , L - Histadine , L - Arginine , L - Leucine , L - Cysteine , Whey Protein Hydrolysate , Choline Bitartrate , Cinnamon , Caffeine , Cocoa , Ginseng , and Grape Extract .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Hypertensa acts by restoring and maintaining the balance of NO in patients with hypertension .
Metabolism The amino acids in Hypertensa are primarily absorbed by the stomach and small intestines .
All cells metabolize the amino acids in Hypertensa .
Circulating arginine and choline blood levels determine the production of NO and acetylcholine .
Excretion Hypertensa is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A2 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 .
These isoenzymes are principally responsible for 95 % of all detoxification of drugs , with CYP3A4 being responsible for detoxification of roughly 50 % of drugs .
Amino acids do not appear to have an effect on drug metabolizing enzymes .
INDICATIONS FOR USE Hypertensa is intended for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes in patients with hypertension .
CLINICAL EXPERIENCE Administration of Hypertensa has demonstrated significant functional improvements in blood pressure when used for the dietary management of the metabolic processes associated with hypertension .
Administration of Hypertensa results in the reduction of blood pressure in hypertensive patients .
Hypertensa has no effect on normal blood pressure .
PRECAUTIONS AND CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypertensa is contraindicated in an extremely small number of patients with hypersensitivity to any of the nutritional components of Hypertensa .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Oral supplementation with L - arginine at high doses up to 15 grams daily is generally well tolerated .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions at higher doses — from 15 to 30 grams daily — are nausea , abdominal cramps , and diarrhea .
Some patients may experience these symptoms at lower doses .
The total combined amount of amino acids in each Hypertensa capsule does not exceed 400 mg .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Hypertensa does not directly influence the pharmacokinetics of prescription drugs .
Clinical experience has shown that administration of Hypertensa may allow for lowering the dose of co - administered drugs under physician supervision .
POST - MARKETING SURVEILLANCE Post - marketing surveillance has shown no serious adverse reactions .
Reported cases of mild rash and itching may have been associated with allergies to Hypertensa flavonoid ingredients , including cocoa and chocolate .
The reactions were transient in nature and subsided within 24 hours .
OVERDOSE There is a negligible risk of overdose with Hypertensa as the total dosage of amino acids in a one month supply ( 90 capsules ) is less than 36 grams .
Overdose symptoms may include diarrhea , weakness , and nausea .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Administration For the dietary management of the metabolic processes associated with hypertension .
Take ( 2 ) capsules once or twice daily , as directed by physician .
As with most amino acid formulations Hypertensa should be taken without food to increase the absorption of key ingredients .
How Supplied Hypertensa is supplied in green and white , size 0 capsules in bottles of 60 and 90 capsules .
Physician Supervision Hypertensa is a Medical Food product available by prescription only , and must be used while the patient is under ongoing physician supervision .
U . S . patent pending .
Manufactured by Arizona Nutritional Supplements , Inc .
Chandler AZ 85225 Distributed by Physician Therapeutics LLC , Los Angeles , CA 90077 .
www . ptlcentral . com © Copyright 2003 - 2006 , Physician Therapeutics LLC , all rights reserved NDC : 68405 - 1007 - 02 NDC : 68405 - 1007 - 03 Storage Store at room temperature , 59 - 86 OF ( 15 - 30 OC ) Protect from light and moisture .
Hypertensa is supplied to physicians in a recyclable plastic bottle with a child - resistant cap .
PHYSICIAN THERAPEUTICS HYPERTENSA Medical Food Rx only 90 Capsules Directions for use : Must be administered under physician supervision .
For adults only .
As a Medical Food , take two ( 2 ) capsules four times daily in between meals or as directed by physician .
For the dietary management of hypertension .
Contains no added sugar , starch , wheat , yeast , preservatives , artifical flavor .
Storage : Keep tightly closed in a cool dry place 8 - 320 C ( 45 - 900 F ) , relative humidity , below 50 % .
Warning : Keep this product out of the reach of children .
NDC # 68405 - 1007 - 03 Ingredients : Each serving ( per 2 capsules ) contains : Proprietary Amino Acid Blend L - Glutamine L - Histadine , L - Arginine , L - Leucine , L - Cysteine , Whey Protein Hydrolysate , Choline Bitatarate , Cinnamon ( bark ) , Caffeine , Cocoa ( 6 % Theobromine ) ( fruit ) , Ginseng , Grape Extract ( 20 % Polyphenol ) ( seed ) other indgredients : Tricalcium phosphate , gelatin , silicon dioxide , vegetable magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , chlorophyllin copper complex , titanium dioxide .
Distributed exclusive by : A Division of Targeted Medical Pharma , Inc Los Angeles , CA 90077 www . ptlcentral . com Patent Pending .
For the Dietary Management of Hypertension .
Two capsules twice daily or as directed by physician .
See product label and insert .
Hypertensa Medical Food PHYSICIAN THERAPEUTICS Hypertensa + Amlodipine 2 . 5 mg A Convenience Packed Medical Food and Drug Hypertenipine - 2 . 5 PHYSICIAN THERAPEUTICS > Hypertensa 90 Capsuled > Amlodipine 2 . 5 mg 30 Tablets No Refills Without Physician Authorization Rx Only NDC # 68405 - 037 - 36 of this co - pack As prescribed by physician .
See product label and product information insert .
Amlodipine 2 . 5 mg Rx Drug [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
