[ MULTIMEDIA ] CIV FOR IM OR SLOW IV ADMINISTRATION DO NOT USE IF SOLUTION IS DISCOLORED OR CONTAINS A PRECIPITATE Rx only DESCRIPTION The barbiturates are nonselective central nervous system ( CNS ) depressants which are primarily used as sedative hypnotics and also anticonvulsants in subhypnotic doses .
The barbiturates and their sodium salts are subject to control under the Federal Controlled Substances Act ( CIV ) .
Barbiturates are substituted pyrimidine derivatives in which the basic structure common to these drugs is barbituric acid , a substance which has no central nervous system activity .
CNS activity is obtained by substituting alkyl , alkenyl or aryl groups on the pyrimidine ring .
Phenobarbital Sodium Injection , USP is a sterile solution for intramuscular or slow intravenous administration as a long - acting barbiturate .
Each mL contains phenobarbital sodium either 65 mg or 130 mg , alcohol 0 . 1 mL , propylene glycol 0 . 678 mL and benzyl alcohol 0 . 015 mL in Water for Injection ; hydrochloric acid added , if needed , for pH adjustment .
The pH range is 9 . 2 - 10 . 2 .
Chemically , phenobarbital sodium is 2 , 4 , 6 ( 1 H , 3 H , 5 H ) - Pyrimidinetrione , 5 - ethyl - 5 - phenyl - , monosodium salt and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The sodium salt of phenobarbital occurs as a white , slightly bitter powder , crystalline granules or flaky crystals ; it is soluble in alcohol and practically insoluble in ether or chloroform .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barbiturates are capable of producing all levels of CNS mood alteration from excitation to mild sedation , to hypnosis , and deep coma .
Overdosage can produce death .
In high enough therapeutic doses , barbiturates induce anesthesia .
Barbiturates depress the sensory cortex , decrease motor activity , alter cerebellar function and produce drowsiness , sedation and hypnosis .
Barbiturate - induced sleep differs from physiological sleep .
Sleep laboratory studies have demonstrated that barbiturates reduce the amount of time spent in the rapid eye movement ( REM ) phase of sleep or dreaming stage .
Also , Stages III and IV sleep are decreased .
Following abrupt cessation of barbiturates used regularly , patients may experience markedly increased dreaming , nightmares and / or insomnia .
Therefore , withdrawal of a single therapeutic dose over 5 or 6 days has been recommended to lessen the REM rebound and disturbed sleep which contribute to drug withdrawal syndrome ( for example , decrease the dose from 3 to 2 doses a day for 1 week ) .
In studies , secobarbital sodium and pentobarbital sodium have been found to lose most of their effectiveness for both inducing and maintaining sleep by the end of 2 weeks of continued drug administration even with the use of multiple doses .
The short - , intermediate - and to a lesser degree , long - acting barbiturates have been widely prescribed for treating insomnia .
Although the clinical literature abounds with claims that the short - acting barbiturates are superior for producing sleep while the intermediate - acting compounds are more effective in maintaining sleep , controlled studies have failed to demonstrate these differential effects .
Therefore , as sleep medications , the barbiturates are of limited value beyond short - term use .
Barbiturates have little analgesic action at subanesthetic doses .
Rather , in subanesthetic doses these drugs may increase the reaction to painful stimuli .
All barbiturates exhibit anticonvulsant activity in anesthetic doses .
Barbiturates are respiratory depressants by virtue of their direct effect on the medullary respiratory center .
They diminish and , in high doses , may abolish the sensitivity of the respiratory center to its normal stimulus , carbon dioxide .
The degree of respiratory depression is dependent upon dose .
With hypnotic doses , respiratory depression produced by barbiturates is similar to that which occurs during physiologic sleep with slight decrease in blood pressure and heart rate .
Ordinary hypnotic doses of barbiturates have no significant effect on the cardiovascular system .
The barbiturates tend to decrease the tonus of the gastrointestinal musculature .
They have no direct injurious effect on the normal kidney .
Severe oliguria or anuria may occur in acute barbiturate poisoning , largely as a result of the marked hypotension .
Hypnotic doses tend to reduce slightly the metabolic rate in man .
Body temperature is reduced slightly , owing to lessened activity and to depression of the central temperature - regulatory mechanisms .
While anesthetic doses of all barbiturates exert an anticonvulsant effect , phenobarbital has a selective anticonvulsant activity independent of the degree of sedation produced .
Phenobarbital limits the spread of seizures and raises the seizure threshold in grand mal ( generalized tonic - clonic ) epilepsy .
Studies in laboratory animals have shown that barbiturates cause reduction in the tone and contractility of the uterus , ureters and urinary bladder .
However , concentrations of the drugs required to produce this effect in humans are not reached with sedative - hypnotic doses .
Barbiturates do not impair normal hepatic function , but have been shown to induce liver microsomal enzymes , thus increasing and / or altering the metabolism of barbiturates and other drugs .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Following IV administration , the onset of action is 5 minutes for phenobarbital sodium .
For IM administration , the onset of action is slightly slower .
Maximal CNS depression may not occur until 15 minutes or more after IV administration .
Duration of action , which is related to the rate at which the barbiturates are redistributed throughout the body , varies among persons and in the same person from time to time .
No studies have demonstrated that the different routes of administration are equivalent with respect to bioavailability .
Barbiturates are weak acids that are absorbed and rapidly distributed to all tissues and fluids with high concentrations in the brain , liver and kidneys .
Lipid solubility of the barbiturates is the dominant factor in their distribution within the body .
The more lipid soluble the barbiturate , the more rapidly it penetrates all tissues of the body .
Barbiturates are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree with the degree of binding increasing directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Phenobarbital has the lowest lipid solubility , lowest plasma binding , lowest brain protein binding , the longest delay in onset of activity and the longest duration of action .
Its diffusion across the blood - brain barrier and its distribution into other tissues occurs more slowly than with other short - acting barbiturates .
Fifteen minutes or more may be required for maximal central depression following intravenous administration of phenobarbital .
However , with time , phenobarbital distributes into all tissues and fluids .
Barbiturates are known to cross the placenta .
Phenobarbital is 20 - 45 % protein bound .
In adults , the plasma half - life of phenobarbital is 53 to 118 hours ( mean 79 hours ) and in children / newborns , the plasma half - life is 60 to 180 hours ( mean 110 hours ) .
Barbiturates are metabolized primarily by the hepatic microsomal enzyme system , and the metabolic products are excreted in the urine and , less commonly , in the feces .
Approximately 25 to 50 percent of a dose of phenobarbital is eliminated unchanged in the urine , whereas the amount of other barbiturates excreted unchanged in the urine is negligible .
Urinary pH and rate of urine flow affect the renal circulation of unchanged phenobarbital , a greater quantity being eliminated in alkaline urine and at increased flow rates .
The excretion of unmetabolized , barbiturate is one feature that distinguishes the long - acting category from those belonging to other categories which are almost entirely metabolized .
The inactive metabolites of the barbiturates are excreted as conjugates of glucuronic acid .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Parenteral • Sedative .
Sedation is obtainable within an hour , and in adequate dosage , the duration of action is more than six hours .
Included in the more common conditions in which the sedative action of this class of drugs is desired are anxiety - tension states , hyperthyroidism , essential hypertension , nausea and vomiting of functional origin , motion sickness , acute labyrinthitis , pylorospasm in infants , chorea and cardiac failure .
Phenobarbital is also a useful adjunct in treatment of hemorrhage from the respiratory or gastrointestinal tract .
Phenobarbital controls anxiety , decreases muscular activity and lessens nervous excitability in hyperthyroid patients .
However , thyrotoxic individuals occasionally react poorly to barbiturates .
• Hypnotic , for the short - term treatment of insomnia , since it appears to lose its effectiveness for sleep induction and sleep maintenance after 2 weeks ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
• Preanesthetic .
• Long - term anticonvulsant , ( phenobarbital , mephobarbital and metharbital ) for the treatment of generalized tonic - clonic and cortical focal seizures .
And , in the emergency control of certain acute convulsive episodes , e . g . , those associated with status epilepticus , cholera , eclampsia , cerebral hemorrhage , meningitis , tetanus , and toxic reactions to strychnine or local anesthetics .
Phenobarbital sodium may be administered intramuscularly or intravenously as an anticonvulsant for emergency use .
When administered intravenously , it may require 15 or more minutes before reaching peak concentrations in the brain .
Therefore , injecting phenobarbital sodium until the convulsions stop may cause the brain level to exceed that required to control the convulsions and lead to severe barbiturate - induced depression .
• Phenobarbital is indicated in pediatric patients as an anticonvulsant and as a sedative , including its preoperative and postoperative use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Barbiturates are contraindicated in patients with known barbiturate sensitivity .
Barbiturates are also contraindicated in patients with a history of manifest or latent porphyria , marked impairment of liver functions or with severe respiratory distress where dyspnea or obstruction is evident .
Large doses are contraindicated in nephritic subjects .
Barbiturates should not be administered to persons with known previous addiction to the sedative - hypnotic group since ordinary doses may be ineffectual and may contribute to further addiction .
Intraarterial administration is contraindicated .
Its consequences vary from transient pain to gangrene .
Subcutaneous administration produces tissue irritation , ranging from tenderness and redness to necrosis and is not recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Treatment of Adverse Effects Due to Inadvertent Error in Administration . )
WARNINGS Phenobarbital Sodium Injection contains the preservative benzyl alcohol and is not recommended for use in neonates .
There have been reports of fatal ' gasping syndrome ' in neonates ( children less than one month of age ) following the administration of intravenous solutions containing the preservative benzyl alcohol .
Symptoms include a striking onset of gasping respiration , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Habit Forming Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Patients who are psychologically dependent on barbiturates may increase the dosage or decrease the dosage interval without consulting a physician and may subsequently develop a physical dependence on barbiturates .
To minimize the possibility of overdosage or the development of dependence , the prescribing and dispensing of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates should be limited to the amount required for the interval until the next appointment .
Abrupt cessation after prolonged use in the dependent person may result in withdrawal symptoms , including delirium , convulsions and possibly death .
Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive dosage over long periods of time ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Dermatologic Reactions Exfoliative dermatitis and Stevens - Johnson syndrome , possibly fatal , are rare hypersensitivity reactions to phenobarbital .
Physicians should be alert to signs which may precede the onset of barbiturate - induced cutaneous lesions , and the drug should be discontinued whenever dermatological reactions occur .
Intravenous Administration Too rapid administration may cause severe respiratory depression , apnea , laryngospasm , hypertension or vasodilation with fall in blood pressure .
When administered intravenously , it may require 15 or more minutes before reaching peak concentrations in the brain .
Therefore , injecting phenobarbital sodium until the convulsions stop may cause brain levels to exceed that required to control the convulsions and lead to severe barbiturate - induced depression .
Acute or Chronic Pain Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain , because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked .
However , the use of barbiturates as sedatives in the postoperative surgical period and as adjuncts to cancer chemotherapy is well established .
Use in Pregnancy Barbiturates can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Retrospective , case - controlled studies have suggested a connection between the maternal consumption of barbiturates and a higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities .
Phenobarbital may cause major fetal malformations .
Following oral or parenteral administration , barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues with highest concentrations found in the placenta , fetal liver and brain .
Fetal blood levels approach maternal blood levels following parenteral administration .
Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to mothers who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Phenobarbital should be used during pregnancy only when clearly indicated .
If phenobarbital is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking the drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Use in Children Phenobarbital has been reported to be associated with cognitive defects in children taking it for complicated febrile seizures .
Synergistic Effects The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects .
PRECAUTIONS General Untoward reactions may occur in the presence of fever , hyperthyroidism , diabetes mellitus and severe anemia .
In cases of great debility , severely impaired liver function , pulmonary or cardiac disease , status asthmaticus , shock or uremia , phenobarbital sodium should be used with extreme caution .
Intramuscular injection should be confined to a total volume of 5 mL and made in a large muscle in order to avoid possible tissue irritation .
Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Barbiturates should be administered with caution , if at all , to patients who are mentally depressed , have suicidal tendencies or a history of drug abuse .
Elderly or debilitated patients may react to barbiturates with marked excitement , depression and confusion .
In some persons , barbiturates repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression .
In patients with hepatic damage , barbiturates should be administered with caution and initially in reduced doses .
Barbiturates should not be administered to patients showing the premonitory signs of hepatic coma .
Parenteral solutions of barbiturates are highly alkaline .
Therefore , extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular extravasation or intraarterial injection .
Extravascular injection may cause local tissue damage with subsequent necrosis ; consequences of intraarterial injection may vary from transient pain to gangrene of the limb .
Any complaint of pain in the limb warrants stopping the injection .
Information for the Patient Practitioners should give the following information and instructions to patients receiving barbiturates : • The use of barbiturates carries with it an associated risk of psychological and / or physical dependence .
The patient should be warned against increasing the dose of the drug without consulting a physician .
• Barbiturates may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks ( e . g . , driving , operating machinery , etc . ) .
• Alcohol should not be consumed while taking barbiturates .
Concurrent use of the barbiturates with other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , narcotics , tranquilizers and antihistamines ) may result in additional CNS depressant effects .
• If phenobarbital is used during pregnancy , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ( see WARNINGS ) .
Drug Interactions Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occuring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital .
However , the application of these data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies .
Anticoagulants Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol ( bishydroxycoumarin ) and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time .
Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants ( e . g . , warfarin , acenocoumarol , dicumarol and phenprocoumon ) .
Patients stabilized on anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen .
Corticosteroids Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes .
Patients stabilized on corticosteroid therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from thier dosage regimen .
Griseofulvin Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin , thus decreasing its blood level .
The effect of the resultant decreased blood levels of griseofulvin on therapeutic response has not been established .
However , it would be preferable to avoid concomitant administration of these drugs .
Doxycycline Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half - life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued .
This mechanism is probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes that metabolize the antibiotic .
If phenobarbital and doxycycline are administered concurrently , the clinical response to doxycycline should be monitored closely .
Phenytoin , Sodium Valproate , Valproic Acid The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable .
Some investigators report an accelerating effect , while others report no effect .
Because the effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin is not predictable , phenytoin and barbiturate blood levels should be monitored more frequently if these drugs are given concurrently .
Sodium valproate and valproic acid appear to decrease barbiturate metabolism ; therefore , barbiturate blood levels should be monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made as indicated .
Central Nervous System Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants , including other sedatives or hypnotics , antihistamines , tranquilizers or alcohol , may produce additive depressant effects .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited .
Estradiol , Estrone , Progesterone and Other Steroidal Hormones Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism .
There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs ( e . g . , phenobarbital ) who became pregnant while taking oral contraceptives .
An alternate contraceptive method might be suggested to women taking phenobarbital .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Prolonged therapy with barbiturates should be accompanied by periodic laboratory evaluation of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal and hepatic systems ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal Data Phenobarbital sodium is carcinogenic in mice and rats after lifetime administration .
In mice , it produced benign and malignant liver - cell tumors .
In rats , benign liver - cell tumors were observed very late in life .
Human Data In an epidemiological study of 9 , 136 patients who were treated on an anticonvulsant protocol which included phenobarbital , results indicated a higher than normal incidence of hepatic carcinoma .
Previously , some of these patients were treated with thorotrast , a drug which is known to produce hepatic carcinomas .
Thus , this study did not provide sufficient evidence that phenobarbital is carcinogenic in humans .
A retrospective study of 84 children with brain tumors matched to 73 normal controls and 78 cancer controls ( malignant disease other than brain tumors ) suggested an association between exposure to barbiturates prenatally and an increased incidence of brain tumors .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category D Phenobarbital may cause major fetal malformations .
( See WARNINGS , Use in Pregnancy . )
Nonteratogenic Effects Reports of infants suffering from long - term barbiturate exposure in utero included the acute withdrawal syndrome of seizures and hyperirritability from birth to a delayed onset of up to 14 days .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE . )
Labor And Delivery Hypnotic doses of barbiturates do not appear to significantly impair uterine activity during labor .
Full anesthetic doses of barbiturates decrease the force and frequency of uterine contractions .
Administration of sedative - hypnotic barbiturates to the mother during labor may result in respiratory depression in the newborn .
Premature infants are particularly susceptible to the depressant effects of barbiturates .
If barbiturates are used during labor and delivery , resuscitation equipment should be available .
Barbiturates are additive with other central nervous system depressants administered during labor and delivery .
Data are currently not available to evaluate the effect of barbiturates when forceps delivery or other intervention is necessary or to determine the long - term effects of obstetrically administered barbiturates on the later growth , development and functional maturation of the child .
While barbiturates are usually reported to have a minimal effect on neonatal behavior , a delayed interest in breastfeeding and a depressed response to auditory and visual stimuli have been noted .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when a barbiturate is administered to a nursing woman since small amounts of barbiturates are excreted in the milk .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions and their incidence were compiled from surveillance of thousands of hospitalized patients .
Because such patients may be less aware of certain of the milder adverse effects of barbiturates , the incidence of these reactions may be somewhat higher in fully ambulatory patients .
Nervous System Somnolence , agitation , confusion , hyperkinesia , ataxia , CNS depression , nightmares , nervousness , psychiatric disturbance , hallucinations , insomnia , anxiety , dizziness , thinking abnormality Respiratory System Hypoventilation , apnea Cardiovascular System Bradycardia , hypotension , syncope Digestive System Nausea , vomiting , constipation Dermatologic Reactions Exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermic necrolysis .
Other Reported Reactions Headache ; injection site reactions ; hypersensitivity reactions , including but not limited to angioedema and skin rashes ; fever ; liver damage and megaloblastic anemia following chronic phenobarbital use .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Phenobarbital Sodium Injection is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Barbiturates may be habit forming .
Tolerance and psychological dependence and physical dependence may occur especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than two - fold .
As this occurs , the margin between an intoxicating dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
Symptoms of acute intoxication with barbiturates include unsteady gait , slurred speech and sustained nystagmus .
Mental signs of chronic intoxication include confusion , poor judgment , irritability , insomnia and somatic complaints .
Symptoms of barbiturate dependence are similar to those of chronic alcoholism .
If an individual appears to be intoxicated with alcohol to a degree that is radically disproportionate to the amount of alcohol in his or her blood , the use of barbiturates should be suspected .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
The symptoms of barbiturate withdrawal can be severe and may cause death .
Minor withdrawal symptoms may appear 8 to 12 hours after the last dose of a barbiturate .
These symptoms usually appear in the following order : anxiety , muscle twitching , tremor of hands and fingers , progressive weakness , dizziness , distortion in visual perception , nausea , vomiting , insomnia and orthostatic hypotension .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of these drugs .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Individuals susceptible to barbiturate abuse and dependence include alcoholics and opiate abusers , as well as other sedative - hypnotic and amphetamine abusers .
Drug dependence to barbiturates arises from repeated administration of a barbiturate or agent with barbiturate - like effect on a continuous basis , generally in amounts exceeding therapeutic dose levels .
The characteristics of drug dependence to barbiturates include : ( a ) a strong desire or need to continue taking the drug , ( b ) a tendency to increase the dose , ( c ) a psychic dependence on the effects of the drug related to subjective and individual appreciation of those effects and ( d ) a physical dependence on the effects of the drug requiring its presence for maintenance of homeostasis and resulting in a definite , characteristic and self - limited abstinence syndrome when the drug is withdrawn .
Individuals subject to barbiturate abuse and dependence include alcoholics and opiate abusers as well as other sedative - hypnotics and amphetamine abusers .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
In all cases , withdrawal takes an extended period of time .
One method involves substituting a 30 mg dose of phenobarbital for each 100 to 200 mg dose of barbiturate that the patient has been taking .
The total daily amount of phenobarbital is then administered in 3 to 4 divided doses , not to exceed 600 mg daily .
Should signs of withdrawal occur on the first day of treatment , a loading dose of 100 to 200 mg of phenobarbital may be administered IM in addition to the oral dose .
After stabilization on phenobarbital , the total daily dose is decreased by 30 mg a day as long as withdrawal is proceeding smoothly .
If withdrawal symptoms appear , dosage is maintained at that level or increased slightly until symptoms disappear .
A modification of this regimen involves initiating treatment at the patient ' s regular dosage level and decreasing the daily dosage by 10 percent if tolerated by the patient .
The symptoms of withdrawal can be severe and may cause death .
Minor withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , anxiety , muscle twitching , tremors , nausea , etc . ) may appear 8 - 12 hours after the last dose of a barbiturate .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to five days after abrupt cessation of the barbiturate .
The intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of two weeks .
Infants physically dependent on barbiturates may be given phenobarbital 3 to 10 mg / kg / day .
After withdrawal symptoms ( hyperactivity , disturbed sleep , tremors , hyperreflexia ) are relieved , the dosage of phenobarbital should be gradually decreased and completely withdrawn over a 2 - week period .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic dose of barbiturates varies considerably .
Barbiturate intoxication may be confused with alcoholism , bromide intoxication and various neurological disorders .
For sedation , therapeutic blood levels of phenobarbital range from 5 - 40 μg / mL ; the lethal blood level is greater than 80 μg / mL and usually ranges from 100 - 200 μg / mL .
Acute overdosage with barbiturates is manifested by CNS and respiratory depression which may progress to Cheyne - Stokes respiration , areflexia , constriction of the pupils to a slight degree ( though in severe poisoning , they may show paralytic dilation ) , oliguria , tachycardia , hypotension , lowered body temperature and coma .
Typical shock syndrome ( apnea , circulatory collapse , respiratory arrest and death ) may occur .
In extreme overdose , all electrical activity in the brain may cease , in which case a " flat " EEG normally equated with clinical death cannot be accepted .
This effect is fully reversible unless hypoxic damage occurs .
Consideration should be given to the possibility of barbiturate intoxication even in situations that appear to involve trauma .
Complications such as pneumonia , pulmonary edema , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure and renal failure may occur .
Uremia may increase CNS sensitivity to barbiturates if renal function is impaired .
Differential diagnosis should include hypoglycemia , head trauma , cerebrovascular accidents , convulsive states and diabetic coma .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdosage , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdose , interaction among drugs and the unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
Treatment of overdosage is mainly supportive and consists of the following : • Maintenance of an adequate airway , with assisted respiration and oxygen administration as necessary .
• Monitoring of vital signs and fluid balance .
• Fluid therapy and other standard treatment for shock , if needed .
• If renal function is normal , forced diuresis may aid in the elimination of the barbiturate .
Alkalinization of the urine increases renal excretion of phenobarbital .
• Although not recommended as a routine procedure , hemodialysis may be used in severe barbiturate intoxication or if the patient is anuric or in shock .
Hemoperfusion through an anion - exchange resin or activated charcoal has been successful .
Peritoneal dialysis is significantly less effective in removing barbiturates .
• Patient should be rolled from side to side every 30 minutes .
• Antibiotics should be given if pneumonia is suspected .
• Appropriate nursing care to prevent hypostatic pneumonia , decubiti , aspiration and other complications of patients with altered states of consciousness .
• The use of analeptic agents is not recommended .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosages of barbiturates must be individualized with full knowledge of their particular characteristics and recommended rates of administration .
Factors to consider are the patient ' s age , weight and condition .
Suggested doses of phenobarbital sodium for specific indications follow : Pediatric Dosage Recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics ( intended as a guide ) Preoperative Sedation : 1 to 3 mg / kg IM or IV Anticonvulsant : 4 to 6 mg / kg / day for 7 to 10 days to blood level of 10 to 15 mcg / mL or 10 to 15 mg / kg / day IM or IV Status Epilepticus : 15 to 20 mg / kg over 10 to 15 minutes IV Adult Dosage ( intended as a guide ) Daytime Sedation : 30 to 120 mg daily in 2 to 3 divided doses IM or IV Bedtime Hypnosis : 100 to 320 mg IM or IV Preoperative Sedation : IM only — 100 to 200 mg 60 to 90 minutes before surgery Acute Convulsions : 20 to 320 mg IM or IV , repeated in 6 hours as necessary Parenteral routes should be used only when oral administration is impossible or impractical .
Intramuscular injection of the sodium salts of barbiturates should be made deeply into a large muscle and a volume of 5 mL should not be exceeded at any one site because of possible tissue irritation .
Injection into or near peripheral nerves may result in permanent neurological deficit .
After intramuscular injection of a hypnotic dose , the patient ' s vital signs should be monitored .
Subcutaneous administration is not recommended ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Intravenous Administration Intravenous injection is restricted to conditions in which other routes are not feasible , either because the patient is unconscious ( as in cerebral hemorrhage , eclampsia or status epilepticus ) , or because the patient resists ( as in delirium ) or because prompt action is imperative .
Slow IV injection is essential , and patients should be carefully observed during administration .
This requires that blood pressure , respiration and cardiac function be maintained , vital signs be recorded and equipment for resuscitation and artificial ventilation be available .
The rate of intravenous injection for adults should not exceed 60 mg / min for phenobarbital sodium .
When given intravenously , do not use small veins , such as those on the dorsum of the hand or wrist .
Preference should be given to a larger vein to minimize the risk of irritation with the possibility of resultant thrombosis .
Avoid administration into varicose veins because circulation there is retarded .
Inadvertent injection into or adjacent to an artery has resulted in gangrene requiring amputation of an extremity or a portion thereof .
Careful technique , including aspiration , is necessary to avoid inadvertent intraarterial injection .
( See below . )
Treatment of Adverse Effects Due to Inadvertent Error in Administration Extravasation into subcutaneous tissues causes tissue irritation .
This may vary from slight tenderness and redness to necrosis .
Recommended treatment includes the application of moist heat and the injection of 0 . 5 % procaine solution into the affected area .
Intraarterial injection of any barbiturate must be avoided .
The accidental intraarterial injection of a small amount of the solution may cause spasm and severe pain along the course of the artery .
The injection should be terminated if the patient complains of pain or if other indications of accidental intraarterial injection occur , such as a white hand with cyanosed skin or patches of discolored skin and delayed onset of hypnosis .
The consequences of intraarterial injection of phenobarbital can vary from transient pain to gangrene .
It is not possible to formulate strict rules for management of such accidents .
The following procedures have been suggested : 1 ) release of the tourniquet or restrictive garments to permit dilution of injected drug , 2 ) relief of arterial spasm by injecting 10 mL of a 1 % procaine solution into the artery and , if considered necessary , brachial plexus block , 3 ) prevention of thrombosis by early anticoagulant therapy and 4 ) supportive treatment .
Anticonvulsant Use A therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum is 10 to 25 μg / mL .
To achieve the blood levels considered therapeutic in children , higher per - kilogram dosages are generally necessary for phenobarbital and most other anticonvulsants .
In children and infants , phenobarbital at loading doses of 15 to 20 mg / kg produces blood levels of about 20 μg / mL shortly after administration .
In status epilepticus , it is imperative to achieve therapeutic blood levels of a barbiturate ( or other anticonvulsants ) as rapidly as possible .
When administered intravenously , phenobarbital sodium may require 15 minutes or more to attain peak concentrations in the brain .
If phenobarbital sodium is injected continuously until the convulsions stop , the brain concentration will continue to rise and can eventually exceed that required to control the seizures .
Because a barbiturate - induced depression may occur along with a postictal depression once the seizures are controlled , it is important , therefore , to use the minimal amount required and to wait for the anticonvulsant effect to develop before administering a second dose .
Phenobarbital has been used in the treatment and prophylaxis of febrile seizures .
However , it has not been established that prevention of febrile seizures influences the subsequent development of epilepsy .
Special Patient Population Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates .
Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Phenobarbital Sodium Injection , USP is available in the following : 65 mg / mL , 1 mL vials packaged in 25 s ( NDC : 63629 - 1998 - 1 ) Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Manufactured for : Cameron Pharmaceuticals , LLC CIV Rev 12 / 2019 Phenobarbital Sodium 65 mg / ml Inj ( 25x1ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
