Drug Facts Active ingredients ( To Deliver ) Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 9 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 9 % Purpose Sunscreen Use ■ helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product ■ keep away from face to avoid breathing it ■ keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
■ use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
■ do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ˚ F .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ shake well before each use ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other information ■ protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun ■ store between 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) ■ may stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients water , dimethyl ether , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , neopentyl glycol diheptanoate , butylene glycol , styrene / acrylates copolymer , VP / eicosene copolymer , 1 , 2 - hexanediol , hydroxyacetophenone , fragrance , tocopherol , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , potassium hydroxide , disodium EDTA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 288 - 3330 Coppertone ® Sunscreen Lotion Spray # 1 Pediatrician Recommended Sunscreen Brand water babies 50 Hypoallergenic With Aloe and Nourishing Vitamin E Free of Oxybenzone , Octinoxate , Dyes & PABA Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Broad Specturm SPF 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
