Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION Tricitrates SF Oral Solution is a stable and pleasant - tasting oral systemic alkalizer containing potassium citrate , sodium citrate , and citric acid in a sugar - free , non - alcoholic base .
Tricitrates SF Oral Solution contains in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) : POTASSIUM CITRATE Monohydrate 550 mg SODIUM CITRATE Dihydrate 500 mg CITRIC ACID Monohydrate 334 mg Each mL contains 1 mEq potassium ion and 1 mEq sodium ion and is equivalent to 2 mEq bicarbonate ( HCO 3 ) .
Inactive Ingredients : FD & C Yellow No . 6 , flavoring , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , and sorbitol solution .
ACTIONS Potassium citrate and sodium citrate are absorbed and metabolized to potassium bicarbonate and sodium bicarbonate , thus acting as systemic alkalizers .
The effects are essentially those of chlorides before absorption and those of bicarbonates subsequently .
Oxidation is virtually complete so that less than 5 % of the citrates are excreted in the urine unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND ADVANTAGES Tricitrates SF Oral Solution is an effective alkalinizing agent useful in those conditions where long - term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable , such as in patients with uric acid and cystine calculi of the urinary tract .
In addition , it is a valuable adjuvant when administered with uricosuric agents in gout therapy , since urates tend to crystallize out of an acid urine .
It is also effective in correcting the acidosis of certain renal tubular disorders .
This product is highly concentrated , and when administered after meals and before bedtime , allows one to maintain an alkaline urine pH around the clock , usually without the necessity of a 2 A . M . dose .
This product alkalinizes the urine without producing a systemic alkalosis in recommended dosage .
It is highly palatable , pleasant tasting , and tolerable , even when administered for long periods .
Potassium citrate and sodium citrate do not neutralize the gastric juice or disturb digestion .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Severe renal impairment with oliguria or azotemia , untreated Addison ' s disease , or severe myocardial damage .
In certain situations , when patients are on a sodium - restricted diet , the use of potassium citrate may be preferable ; or , when patients are on a potassium - restricted diet , the use of sodium citrate may be preferable .
PRECAUTIONS AND WARNINGS Should be used with caution by patients with low urinary output or reduced glomerular filtration rates unless under the supervision of a physician .
Aluminum - based antacids should be avoided in these patients .
Patients should be directed to dilute adequately with water and , preferably , to take each dose after meals , to minimize the possibility of gastrointestinal injury associated with oral ingestion of potassium salt preparations and to avoid saline laxative effect .
Sodium salts should be used cautiously in patients with cardiac failure , hypertension , peripheral and pulmonary edema , and toxemia of pregnancy .
Concurrent administration of potassium - containing medication , potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , or cardiac glycosides may lead to toxicity .
Periodic examination and determinations of serum electrolytes , particularly serum bicarbonate level , should be carried out in those patients with renal disease in order to avoid these complications .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Tricitrates SF Oral Solution is generally well tolerated without any unpleasant side effects when given in recommended doses to patients with normal renal function and urinary output .
However , as with any alkalinizing agent , caution must be used in certain patients with abnormal renal mechanisms to avoid development of hyperkalemia or alkalosis , especially in the presence of hypocalcemia .
Potassium intoxication causes listlessness , weakness , mental confusion , and tingling of extremities .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tricitrates SF Oral Solution should be taken diluted in water , followed by additional water , if desired .
Palatability is enhanced if chilled before taking .
Usual Adult Dose 3 to 6 teaspoonfuls ( 15 to 30 mL ) , diluted in water , four times a day , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
Usual Pediatric Dose 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls ( 5 to 15 mL ) , diluted in water , four times a day , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
Usual Dosage Range 2 to 3 teaspoonfuls ( 10 to 15 mL ) , diluted with water , taken four times a day , will usually maintain a urinary pH of 6 . 5 - 7 . 4 .
3 to 4 teaspoonfuls ( 15 to 20 mL ) , diluted with water , taken four times a day , will usually maintain a urinary pH of 7 . 0 - 7 . 6 throughout most of the 24 hours without unpleasant side effects .
To check urine pH , HYDRION Paper ( pH 6 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) or NITRAZINE Paper ( pH 4 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) are available and easy to use .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with sodium salts may cause diarrhea , nausea and vomiting , hypernoia , and convulsions .
Overdosage with potassium salts may cause hyperkalemia and alkalosis , especially in the presence of renal disease .
HOW SUPPLIED Tricitrates SF Oral Solution ( orange colored , raspberry flavored ) is supplied in the following oral dosage form : NDC 0121 - 0677 - 16 : 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) bottles STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Protect from excessive heat and freezing .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
Manufactured By pai Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 R02 / 18 I06770218 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 473 mL Bottle Label NDC 0121 - 0677 - 16 Tricitrates SF Oral Solution 550 mg / 500 mg / 334 mg per 5 mL A SUGAR - FREE SYSTEMIC ALKALIZER Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains : Potassium Citrate Monohydrate 550 mg Sodium Citrate Dihydrate 500 mg Citric Acid Monohydrate 334 mg Each mL contains 1 mEq Potassium Ion and 1 mEq Sodium Ion , and is equivalent to 2 mEq Bicarbonate ( HCO 3 ) .
May not meet USP monograph requirements for pH . 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) Pharmaceutical Associates , Inc .
Greenville , SC 29605 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
