Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 2 % Purpose Antibacterial Use To clean and decrease bacteria and germs .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children and pets . Keep container tightly sealed , avoid to contact with eyes , not for use on broken or sensitive skin , stop use if skin irritation develops , flush eyes immediately if product enters eyes . Keep awayfrom heat and flame . Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice . Have the product container label with you when calling a poison control center or doctor , or going for treatment .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact the poison control center immediately .
Directions Remove cover . Pull up wipe corner from center of roll . Thread through hole in the cover . Replace cover .
Open center cap on cover to remove wipe .
When not using , close center cap securely to prevent moisture loss .
Unfold wipe to wipe down . Dispose wipe after each use . Let air dry . If area is extremely dirty , clean first with another wipe for best results .
Do not flush .
Rinse toys or food with clean water after cleaning .
Do not use as a diaper wipe or on sensitive skin .
Do not use on unpainted wood .
Do not use to clean dishes , glassware or utensils .
Storage and disposal : Store in original container in areas inaccessible to children . Keep securely closed . Do not reuse or refill this container . Discard empty container in trash or recycle .
Perfect to wipe away tough messes while leaving a refreshing scent behind .
Our antibacterial wipes get rid of dirt and grime while wiping away 99 . 9 % of germs and bacteria .
Formulated to be gentle on skin without alcohol , dyes , parabens or harsh chemicals , they can be used safely on your skin .
Thoroughly clean by wiping areas until visibly wet , allow to remain wet for 10 minutes , then air dry .
Keep a container of wipes in your closet for daily messes , keep some in your car for emergency clean up and when washning your hands with soap and water is not an option .
233 Imperial Hwy , Ste 115 , Fullerton , CA 92835 www . disinpro . com Inactive Ingredients Water ， Propylene Glycol ， DidecyldimoniumChloride ， Phenoxyethanol ， Chlorphenesin ， Parfum Package Label NDC : 76635 - 008 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 76635 - 008 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 76635 - 008 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 76635 - 008 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
