Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 3 % Purpose Antiseptic Use To clean and decrease bacteria and germs on skin and surfaces .
Warnings Keep container tightly sealed , avoid contact with eyes , wash hands after handing , not for use on broken or sensitive skin , stop use if skin irritation develops , flush eyes immediately if product enters eyes . Keep away from heat and flame . Call a poison control center or doctor for treatment advice . Have the product container label with you when calling a poison control center or doctor , or going for treatment .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Directions Remove cover . Pull up wipe corner from center of roll . Thread through hole in the cover . Replace cover .
Open center cap on cover to remove wipe .
When not using , close center cap securely to prevent moisture loss .
Unfold wipe to wipe down surface or hands . Dispose wipe after each use . Let air dry . If surfaces are extremely dirty , clean first with another wipe before disinfecting .
Other information Do not flush .
Rinse toys or food with clean water after disinfecting .
Do not use as a diaper wipe or on sensitive skin .
Do not use on unpainted wood .
Do not use to disinfect dishes , glassware or utensils .
Storage and disposal : Store in original container in areas inaccessible to children . Keep securely closed . Do not reuse or refill this container . Discard empty container in trash or recycle .
Perfect to wipe away tough messes while leaving a refreshing scent behind .
Our disinfecting wipes get rid of dirt and grime on hand , arms , legs , and most surfaces in your home or office while wiping away 99 . 9 % of germs and bacteria .
Formulated to be gentle on skin without alcohol , dyes , parabens or harsh chemicals , they can be used safely on your skin and most washable non - porous surfaces such as bathroom fixtures , countertops , doorknobs , electronics and appliances .
Thoroughly clean and disinfect by wiping areas until visibly wet , allow to remain wet for 10 minutes , then air dry .
Keep a container of wipes in your closet for daily household messes , keep some in your car for emergency clean up and when washning your hands with soap and water is not an option .
Inactive ingredients Water ， Phenoxyethanol ， Propylene Glycol ， Chlorphenesin ， Didecyldimonium Chloride ， Parfum ( Fragrance ) Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
