ACTIVE INGREDIENT Epinephrine , USP 0 . 22 mg per capsule / dose PURPOSE Bronchodilator USE For temporary relief of mild symptoms of intermittent asthma : • wheezing • tightness of chest • shortness of breath WARNINGS Asthma Alert : Because asthma may be life threatening , see a doctor if you : • are not better in 20 minutes • get worse • need more than 6 inhalations in 24 hours • use more than 4 inhalations in 24 hours for 3 or more days a week • have more than 2 asthma attacks in a week These may be signs that your asthma is getting worse Do not use • unless a doctor said you have asthma • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs taken for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • ever been hospitalized for asthma • heart disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • thyroid disease • seizures • narrow angle glaucoma • a psychiatric or emotional condition • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking prescription drugs for asthma , obesity , weight control , depression , or psychiatric or emotional conditions • taking any drug that contains phenylephrine , pseudoephedrine , ephedrine , or caffeine ( such as for allergy , cough - cold , or pain ) When using this product • your blood pressure or heart rate may go up .
This could increase your risk of heart attack or stroke , which may cause death .
• Your risk of heart attack or stroke increases if you : • have a history of high blood pressure or heart disease • take this product more frequently or take more than the recommended dose • avoid foods or beverages that contain caffeine • avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients reported or claimed to have a stimulant effect Stop use and ask doctor if • your asthma is getting worse ( see Asthma alert ) • you have difficulty sleeping • you have a rapid heartbeat • you have tremors , nervousness , or seizure PREGNANCY OR BREAST FEEDING If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : • do not use more than directed • adults and children 4 years of age and over : 1 capsule is for one inhalation at one time • inhalation not more often than every 3 hours • do not use more than 12 inhalations in 24 hours • the use of this product by children should be supervised by an adult • children under 4 years of age : ask a doctor 1 ) The active ingredient in a dry powder is 0 . 22 mg per capsule ( the concentration is 1 % epinephrine in the total weight of the dry powder ) 2 ) For use in a dry powder inhaler for holding the No . 3 capsule .
3 ) Should orally inhale at least two times after the capsule is pierced to make sure all dry powder is inhaled into the lung 4 ) Instructions for Inhalation : A . Inhaler parts : [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Instructions for using the dry powder inhaler : Wash and dry your hands completely before touching the inhaler and capsule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 1 ) Remove the cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 2 ) Hold the inhaler at base and turn the mouthpiece in direction of the arrow .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 3 ) Obtain 1 capsule from the blister package just prior to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 4 ) Open inhaler by turning mouthpiece as indicated .
Load 1 capsule in the capsule - chamber of the inhaler .
Do not put the capsule directly into the top of the mouthpiece .
Twist the mouthpiece to the closed position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 5 ) Hold the inhaler upright , push / click two blue buttons inwards all the way .
Let go of the blue buttons .
Do not press the blue buttons more than 1 time .
The chances of the capsule breaking into pieces will be increased if the capsule is accidentally pierced more than once .
( 6 ) With the inhaler away from your mouth , prepare by breathing out ( exhaling ) all the way .
Do not blow or exhale into the mouthpiece .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( 7 ) Hold the inhaler horizontally .
Place your mouth over the mouthpiece and close your lips tightly around it .
Inhale quickly and deeply .
( 8 ) Hold your breath for count of ten , or as long as is comfortable .
Breathe out gently .
You will need to inhale at least twice from one capsule in order to get the full dose .
( 9 ) After the dose , open the mouthpiece , remove the used capsule , and take a look at the used capsule .
It should be pierced and empty .
If so , dispose of it properly .
If the capsule does not look pierced , put the capsule back into the device capsule - chamber , repeat steps 7 , 8 and 9 .
( 10 ) Cover the mouthpiece and dust cap for storage .
( 11 ) After your Inhalation , throw away the empty capsule properly as it is bio - degradable .
Do not store the capsule in the inhaler .
Put the mouthpiece back to your inhaler device and twist the mouthpiece in a clockwise direction until it is tight .
Do not over - tighten .
HOW SUPPLIED • Epinephrine Inhalation is a dry powder , USP 0 . 22 mg , in one number 3 capsule .
• NDC 15343 - 104 - 20 , each dose is in an individual capsule .
Twenty capsules are packed in one blister .
The dry powder in the capsule is in a ready - to - inhale form .
STORAGE AND HANDLING • Protect from light • Place in a dry area • Avoid excessive heat • Store between 2 ° C and 24 ° C ( 36 ° F and 75 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENT Lactose REGULATORY STATUS OTC Monograph 2013 , 21 CFR Part 341 . 16 and 341 . 76 Bronchodilator COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS 1 - 888 - 658 - 8108 Monday through Friday , 8 : 00 a . m . to 5 : 00 p . m . ( Eastern Standard Time ) Manufactured for : DrNaturalHealing , Inc . 111 McCoy Street Milford , DE 19963 , USA Info @ DrNaturalHealing . com Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
