Sodium Bicarbonate 100 % Skin Protectant and Antacid Uses Uses • temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to : poison ivy , oak , sumac and insect bites Uses relieves : • heartburn • acid indigestion • sour stomach • and upset stomach due to these symptoms Warnings Warnings When using this product • do not get in eyes • in some cases , soaking too long may overdry skin Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have a sodium - restricted diet .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks .
Directions Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : For use as a paste • add enough water to the sodium bicarbonate to form a paste • apply to the affected area of the skin as needed , or as directed by a doctor • children under 2 years : ask a doctor For use as a soak in the bath • dissolve 1 to 2 cups in a tub of warm water • soak for 10 to 30 minutes as needed , or as directed by a doctor • pat dry ( do not rub ) to keep a thin layer on the skin • children under 2 years : ask a doctor For use as a compress or wet dressing • add sodium bicarbonate to water to make a mixture in a container • soak a clean , soft cloth in the mixture • apply cloth loosely to affected area for 15 - 30 minutes • repeat as needed or as directed by a doctor • discard mixture after each use • children under 2 years : ask a doctor Directions • add 1 / 2 teaspoon to 1 / 2 glass ( 4 fl .
oz . )
of water every 2 hours , or as directed by physician .
Dissolve completely in water .
Accurately measure 1 / 2 teaspoon .
• do not take more than the following amounts in 24 hours : seven 1 / 2 teaspoons or three 1 / 2 teaspoons if you are over 60 years • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Other information • each 1 / 2 teaspoon contains 616 mg sodium .
VALUE SIZE !
ARM & HAMMER THE STANDARD OF PURITY TM Pure Baking Soda America ' s # 1 Trusted Baking Soda Brand ONE BOX .
COUNTLESS USES .
Cleaning Laundry Deodorizing NET WT .
4 LB .
( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
