This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 2 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 13 % v / v ) .
• Dipropylene Glycol / Fragrance - ( 0 . 1 % v / v ) .
• Tert - Butyl Alcohol / thickener ( 0 . 04 % v / v ) .
• Water ( agua ) .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antibacterial Agent Purpose Antibacterial Agent Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water ( agua ) , glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , Fragrance , Thickener Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Net Contents : 1 gallon ( 3 . 785 L ) , Reorder PN 18303 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
