DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes ● external feminine , genital and anal itching Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Do Not Use • For the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
• With any other Hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • If you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor Warnings For external use only When using this product • Avoid Contact with the eyes • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop using this product and ask a doctor if • conditions worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or symptoms clear up and reappear again within a few days and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product .
• Rectal bleeding occurs Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : do not use and ask a doctor .
For External and anal itching in adults : When practical , clean affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying For External anal and genital itching in children under 12 years of age : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Benzoic Acid , Chlorphenesin , citric acid , glycerin , glycerol monostearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , petrolatum , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , purified water , titanium dioxide , trisodium citrate Other information ● store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Tamper evident , do not use if packet is torn , cut or opened .
Avoid excessive heat and humidity .
Distributed by : Trifecta Pharmaceuticals USA ™ Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33301 USA Online : www . trifecta - pharma . com Reorder No . 1016 SL To reorder call : 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Fax : 888 - 878 - 3609 Questions Call 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
