Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Drug Facts This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient Purpose Ethyl Alcohol 62 % Antiseptic Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that can potentially cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
| Flammable .
| Keep away from heat or flame .
| Contents under pressure .
Do not use on children less than 2 months of age .
Do not use on open skin wounds .
Stop using and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs . These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Supervise children under 6 years of age to avoid swallowing .
Other information Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Fragrance , Glycerin , Purified Water , Tocopheryl Acetate Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 250 - 4643 Package Label - Principal Display Panel Net Wt 2 . 2 FL OZ ( 62 . 4 g ) NDC : 80464 - 1006 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
