Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 1 % Zinc Chloride 0 . 15 % Oral pain reliever and Oral astringent Use for the temporary relief of pain associated with canker sores , cold sores , fever blisters , minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) , headache , rapid heart rate , shortness of breath , dizziness or lightheadedness , fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens In case of overdose or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and over Apply to affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children between 2 and 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Do not use Other information do not use if Tamper - Evident Tab is open before first use allantoin , carbomer , disodium EDTA , flavor , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , pvp , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid , stearyl alcohol , water Questions or comments ?
call us at 1 - 800 - 952 - 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm ET or visit our website at www . orajel . com # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIEF BRAND FOR ADULTS EXTRA STRENGTH Orajel ™ 3 X MOUTH SORES MEDICATED IMMEDIATE PAIN RELIEF ORAL PAIN RELIEVER / ASTRINGENT Provides Long - Lasting Pain Relief * Helps Protect Sores from Irritation Delivers Targeted Pain Relief GEL NET WT 0 . 18 OZ ( 5 . 1 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
