Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and jock itch ( tinea cruris ) .
• For effective relief of itching , burning and cracking skin .
Warnings For external use only When using this product When using this product avoid contact with the eye Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks for jock itch or within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm .
Do not use Do Not use on children under 2 under of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wash affected area well and let product sit 1 - 2 minutes before rinsing .
• Make sure to dry affected area thoroughly .
• Supervise children in the use of this product .
• For Athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• Use 1 - 2 times daily .
Use daily for 4 weeks ; if condition persists longer , ask a doctor .
• This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Inactive ingredients Sodium Palmate , Sodium Palm Kernelate , Water , Glycerin , Sodium Gluconate , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Oil , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Palm Acid , Sodium Chloride , Palm Kernel Acid , Charcoal Powder Principal Display Panel Tolnaftate 1 % Antifungal Medicated Bar Soap Cures and Prevents Most Fungal Skin Infections , Including Athlete ’ s Foot , Ringworm and Jock Itch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] DEFENSE SOAP Products are tested everyday in the toughest , dirtiest places in the world — the world of combat sports .
Wrestlers , MMA fighters , and Jiu - Jitsu athletes are prone to getting fungal skin infections .
It ’ s the nature of contact sports .
These elite athletes use DEFENSE SOAP as part of their daily training regimen because they know it works .
We use only the highest quality ingredients at full strength concentrations .
DEFENSE SOAP LLC , 13000 ATHENS AVE STE C313 LAKEWOOD , OH 44107 866 - 544 - 1689 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
