DESCRIPTION Norethindrone acetate tablets , USP - 5 mg oral tablets .
Norethindrone acetate , USP ( 17 - hydroxy - 19 - nor - 17α - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one acetate ) , a synthetic , orally active progestin , is the acetic acid ester of norethindrone , USP .
It is a white , or creamy white , crystalline powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Norethindrone acetate tablets , USP contain the following inactive ingredients : lactose , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Norethindrone acetate induces secretory changes in an estrogen - primed endometrium .
On a weight basis , it is twice as potent as norethindrone .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norethindrone acetate is completely and rapidly deacetylated to norethindrone ( NET ) after oral administration , and the disposition of norethindrone acetate is indistinguishable from that of orally administered norethindrone .
Norethindrone acetate is rapidly absorbed from norethindrone acetate tablets , with maximum plasma concentration of norethindrone generally occurring at about 2 hours post - dose .
The pharmacokinetic parameters of norethindrone following single oral administration of norethindrone acetate in 29 healthy female volunteers are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters after a Single Dose of Norethindrone Acetate in Healthy Women Norethindrone Acetate ( n = 29 ) Arithmetic Mean ± SD Norethindrone ( NET ) AUC = area under the curve , C max = maximum plasma concentration , t max = time at maximum plasma concentration , t 1 / 2 = half - life , SD = standard deviation AUC ( 0 - inf ) ( ng / ml * h ) 166 . 90 ± 56 . 28 C max ( ng / ml ) 26 . 19 ± 6 . 19 t max ( h ) 1 . 83 ± 0 . 58 t 1 / 2 ( h ) 8 . 51 ± 2 . 19 Figure 1 .
Mean Plasma Concentration Profile after a Single Dose of 5 mg Administered to 29 Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effect of Food The effect of food administration on the pharmacokinetics of norethindrone acetate has not been studied .
Distribution Norethindrone is 36 % bound to sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) and 61 % bound to albumin .
Volume of distribution of norethindrone is about 4 L / kg .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
Excretion Plasma clearance value for norethindrone is approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg .
Norethindrone is excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
The mean terminal elimination half - life of norethindrone following a single dose administration of norethindrone acetate is approximately 9 hours .
Special Populations Geriatrics The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of norethindrone after norethindrone acetate administration has not been evaluated .
Race The effect of race on the disposition of norethindrone after norethindrone acetate administration has not been evaluated .
Renal Insufficiency The effect of renal disease on the disposition of norethindrone after norethindrone acetate administration has not been evaluated .
In premenopausal women with chronic renal failure undergoing peritoneal dialysis who received multiple doses of an oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone , plasma norethindrone concentration was unchanged compared to concentrations in premenopausal women with normal renal function .
Hepatic Insufficiency The effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of norethindrone after norethindrone acetate administration has not been evaluated .
However , norethindrone acetate is contraindicated in markedly impaired liver function or liver disease .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies investigating any drug - drug interactions with norethindrone acetate have been conducted .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Norethindrone acetate tablets , USP is indicated for the treatment of secondary amenorrhea , endometriosis , and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology , such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer .
Norethindrone acetate tablets , USP are not intended , recommended or approved to be used with concomitant estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women for endometrial protection .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known or suspected pregnancy .
There is no indication for norethindrone acetate , USP in pregnancy .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
• Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding • Known , suspected or history of cancer of the breast • Active deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions • Active or recent ( e . g . , within the past year ) arterial thromboembolic disease ( e . g . , stroke , myocardial infarction ) • Impaired liver function or liver disease • As a diagnostic test for pregnancy • Hypersensitivity to any of the drug components WARNINGS 1 .
Cardiovascular disorders Patients with risk factors for arterial vascular disease ( e . g . , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , tobacco use , hypercholesterolemia , and obesity ) and / or venous thromboembolism ( e . g . , personal history or family history of VTE , obesity , and systemic lupus erythematosus ) should be managed appropriately .
2 .
Visual abnormalities Discontinue medication pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia , or migraine .
If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions , medication should be discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General Precautions • Because this drug may cause some degree of fluid retention , conditions which might be influenced by this factor , such as epilepsy , migraine , cardiac or renal dysfunctions , require careful observation .
• In cases of breakthrough bleeding , and in all cases of irregular bleeding per vagina , nonfunctional causes should be borne in mind .
In cases of undiagnosed vaginal bleeding , adequate diagnostic measures are indicated .
• Patients who have a history of clinical depression should be carefully observed and the drug discontinued if the depression recurs to a serious degree .
• Data suggest that progestin therapy may have adverse effects on lipid and carbohydrate metabolism .
The choice of progestin , its dose , and its regimen may be important in minimizing these adverse effects , but these issues will require further study before they are clarified .
Women with hyperlipidemias and / or diabetes should be monitored closely during progestin therapy .
• The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
Information for the Patient Healthcare providers are advised to discuss the PATIENT INFORMATION leaflet with patients for whom they prescribe norethindrone acetate .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions The following laboratory test results may be altered by the use of estrogen / progestin combination drugs : • Accelerated prothrombin time , partial thromboplastin time , and platelet aggregation time ; increased platelet count ; increased factors II , VII antigen , VIII antigen , VIII coagulant activity , IX , X , XII , VII - X complex , II - VII - X complex , and beta - thromboglobulin ; decreased levels of antifactor X a and antithrombin III , decreased antithrombin III activity ; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity ; increased plasminogen antigen and activity .
• Increased thyroid - binding globulin ( TBG ) levels leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels as measured by protein - bound iodine ( PBI ) , T 4 levels ( by column or by radioimmunoassay ) or T 3 levels by radioimmunoassay .
T 3 resin uptake is decreased , reflecting the elevated TBG .
Free T 4 and free T 3 concentrations are unaltered .
Patients on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone .
• Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum ( i . e . , corticosteroid binding globulin ( CBG ) , sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) ) leading to increased circulating corticosteroid and sex steroids , respectively .
Free or biologically active hormone concentrations are unchanged .
Other plasma proteins may be increased ( angiotensinogen / renin substrate , alpha - 1 - antitrypsin , ceruloplasmin ) .
• Increased plasma HDL and HDL 2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations , reduced LDL cholesterol concentration , increased triglycerides levels .
• Impaired glucose metabolism .
• Reduced response to metyrapone test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Some beagle dogs treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate developed mammary nodules .
Although nodules occasionally appeared in control animals , they were intermittent in nature , whereas nodules in treated animals were larger and more numerous , and persisted .
There is no general agreement as to whether the nodules are benign or malignant .
Their significance with respect to humans has not been established .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category X Norethindrone acetate is contraindicated during pregnancy as it may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Several reports suggest an association between intrauterine exposure to progestational drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy and congenital abnormalities in male and female fetuses .
Some progestational drugs induce mild virilization of the external genitalia of female fetuses .
Nursing Mothers Detectable amounts of progestins have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving them .
Caution should be exercised when progestins are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Norethindrone acetate tablets are not indicated in children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
The following adverse reactions have been observed in women taking progestins : • Breakthrough bleeding • Spotting • Change in menstrual flow • Amenorrhea • Edema • Changes in weight ( decreases , increases ) • Changes in the cervical squamo - columnar junction and cervical secretions • Cholestatic jaundice • Rash ( allergic ) with and without pruritus • Melasma or chloasma • Clinical depression • Acne • Breast enlargement / tenderness • Headache / migraine • Urticaria • Abnormalities of liver tests ( i . e . , AST , ALT , Bilirubin ) • Decreased HDL cholesterol and increased LDL / HDL ratio • Mood swings • Nausea • Insomnia • Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions • Thrombotic and thromboembolic events ( e . g . , deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism , retinal vascular thrombosis , cerebral thrombosis and embolism ) • Optic neuritis ( which may lead to partial or complete loss of vision ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy with norethindrone acetate tablets , USP must be adapted to the specific indications and therapeutic response of the individual patient .
Secondary amenorrhea , abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology : 2 . 5 to 10 mg norethindrone acetate , USP may be given daily for 5 to 10 days to produce secretory transformation of an endometrium that has been adequately primed with either endogenous or exogenous estrogen .
Progestin withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within three to seven days after discontinuing norethindrone acetate , USP therapy .
Patients with a past history of recurrent episodes of abnormal uterine bleeding may benefit from planned menstrual cycling with norethindrone acetate tablets , USP .
Endometriosis : Initial daily dosage of 5 mg norethindrone acetate , USP for two weeks .
Dosage should be increased by 2 . 5 mg per day every two weeks until 15 mg per day of norethindrone acetate , USP is reached .
Therapy may be held at this level for six to nine months or until annoying breakthrough bleeding demands temporary termination .
HOW SUPPLIED Norethindrone acetate tablets , USP , 5 mg , are supplied as white to off - white oval , biconvex tablets debossed with “ AN ” bisect “ 475 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 90 : NDC 42291 - 650 - 90 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 09 - 2015 - 00 AV Rev . 06 / 18 ( P ) PATIENT INFORMATION Norethindrone Acetate Tablets Read this PATIENT INFORMATION before you start taking norethindrone acetate tablets and read what you get each time you refill norethindrone acetate tablets .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition .
What is the most important information I should know about norethindrone acetate ( A Progestin Hormone ) tablets ?
• Do not use norethindrone acetate if you are pregnant , breastfeeding or are trying to conceive .
• Do not use norethindrone acetate if you have had a previous blood clot , stroke , or heart attack .
• Do not use norethindrone acetate if you are postmenopausal .
What is norethindrone acetate ?
Norethindrone acetate is similar to the progesterone hormones naturally produced by the body .
What are norethindrone acetate tablets used for ?
Norethindrone acetate tablets are used for the treatment of secondary amenorrhea ( absence of menstrual periods in women who have previously had a menstrual period who are not pregnant ) , the treatment of endometriosis , and the treatment of irregular menstrual periods due to hormone imbalance .
Who should not take norethindrone acetate tablets ?
You should not take norethindrone acetate tablets if you are postmenopausal , pregnant or breast - feeding .
You should not take norethindrone acetate tablets if you have the following conditions : • Known or suspected pregnancy .
Norethindrone acetate tablets are not indicated during pregnancy as it may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
There is an increased risk of minor birth defects in children whose mothers take norethindrone acetate during the first 4 months of pregnancy ( mild masculinization of the external genitalia of the female fetus , as well as hypospadias in the male fetus ) .
If you take norethindrone acetate and later find out you were pregnant , talk with your healthcare provider right away .
• History of blood clots in the legs , lungs , eyes , brain , or elsewhere , or a past history of these conditions • Liver impairment or disease • Known or suspected cancer of the breast .
If you have or had cancer of the breast , talk with your healthcare provider about whether you should take norethindrone acetate .
• Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding • Hypersensitivity to norethindrone acetate tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of all of the ingredients in norethindrone acetate tablets .
What are the risks associated with norethindrone acetate tablets ?
• Risk to the Fetus Norethindrone acetate tablets should not be used if you are pregnant .
Norethindrone acetate tablets are contraindicated during pregnancy as it may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
There is an increased risk of minor birth defects in children whose mothers take this drug during the first 4 months of pregnancy .
Several reports suggest an association between mothers who take these drugs in the first trimester of pregnancy and congenital abnormalities in male and female babies .
Although it is not clear that these events were drug related , you should check with your healthcare provider about the risks to your unborn child of any medication taken during pregnancy .
You should avoid using norethindrone acetate tablets during pregnancy .
If you take norethindrone acetate tablets and later find you were pregnant when you took it , be sure to discuss this with your healthcare provider as soon as possible .
• Abnormal Blood Clotting Use of progestational drugs , such as norethindrone acetate , has been associated with changes in the blood - clotting system .
These changes allow the blood to clot more easily , possibly allowing clots to form in the bloodstream .
If blood clots do form in your bloodstream , they can cut off the blood supply to vital organs , causing serious problems .
These problems may include a stroke ( by cutting off blood to part of the brain ) , a heart attack ( by cutting off blood to part of the heart ) , a pulmonary embolus ( by cutting off blood to part of the lungs ) , visual loss or blindness ( by cutting off blood vessels in the eye ) , or other problems .
Any of these conditions may cause death or serious long - term disability .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you suspect you have any of these conditions .
He or she may advise you to stop using the drug .
• Eye Abnormalities Discontinue norethindrone acetate tablets and call your healthcare provider right away if you experience sudden partial or complete loss of vision , blurred vision , or sudden onset of bulging eyes , double vision , or migraine .
These are some of the warning signs of serious side effects with progestin therapy • Breast lumps • Dizziness and faintness • Changes in speech • Severe headaches • Chest pain • Shortness of breath • Pains in your legs • Changes in vision Call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of these warning signs , or any other unusual symptom that concerns you .
Common side effects include • Headache • Breast pain • Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting • Stomach / abdominal cramps / bloating • Nausea and vomiting • Hair loss Other side effects include • High blood pressure • Liver problems • High blood sugar • Fluid retention • Enlargements of benign tumors of the uterus ( “ fibroids ” ) • Vaginal yeast infections • Mental depression These are not all the possible side effects of progestin and / or estrogen therapy .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
What can I do to lower my chances of getting a serious side effect with norethindrone acetate ?
• Talk with your healthcare provider regularly about whether you should continue taking norethindrone acetate .
• Have a breast exam and mammogram ( breast x - ray ) every year unless your healthcare provider tells you something else .
If members of your family have had breast cancer or if you have ever had breast lumps or an abnormal mammogram , you may need to have breast exams more often .
• If you have high blood pressure , high cholesterol ( fat in the blood ) , diabetes , are overweight , or if you use tobacco , you may have higher chances for getting heart disease .
Ask your healthcare provider for ways to lower your chances of getting heart attacks .
General information about the safe and effective use of norethindrone acetate tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not take norethindrone acetate tablets for conditions for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give norethindrone acetate tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
Keep norethindrone acetate tablets out of the reach of children .
This leaflet provides a summary of the most important information about progestin and / or estrogen therapy .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You can ask for information about norethindrone acetate that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in norethindrone acetate tablets ?
Norethindrone acetate tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : lactose , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 09 - 2015 - 00 AV Rev . 06 / 18 ( P ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL AvKARE ® NDC 42291 - 650 - 90 Norethindrone Acetate Tablets , USP 5 mg ORALLY ACTIVE PROGESTIN 90 Tablets Rx Only Pharmacist : Dispense the accompanying PATIENT INFORMATION leaflet to each patient .
Each tablet contains 5 mg norethindrone acetate , USP .
Usual Dosage : See package insert for full prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 09 - 2015 - 00 AV Rev . 05 / 17 ( P ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
