Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Potassium Chloride Extended - release Capsules USP , 8 mEq and 10 mEq are oral dosage forms of microencapsulated potassium chloride containing 600 mg and 750 mg of potassium chloride , USP equivalent to 8 mEq and 10 mEq of potassium , respectively .
Dispersibility of potassium chloride ( KCl ) is accomplished by microencapsulation and a dispersing agent .
The resultant flow characteristics of the KCl microcapsules and the controlled release of K + ions by the microcapsular membrane are intended to avoid the possibility that excessive amounts of KCl can be localized at any point on the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract .
Each crystal of KCl is microencapsulated by a process with an insoluble polymeric coating which functions as a semi - permeable membrane ; it allows for the controlled release of potassium and chloride ions over an eight - to - ten - hour period .
Fluids pass through the membrane and gradually dissolve the potassium chloride within the micro - capsules .
The resulting potassium chloride solution slowly diffuses outward through the membrane .
Potassium Chloride Extended - release Capsules , USP , 8 mEq and 10 mEq are electrolyte replenishers .
The chemical name of the active ingredient is potassium chloride and the structural formula is KCl .
It has a molecular mass of 74 . 55 .
Potassium chloride , USP occurs as a white granular powder or as colorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The inactive ingredients are , ethylcellulose , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium oxide and triacetin .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : 12 . 1 Mechanis m of Action The potassium ion ( K + ) is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes , including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity ; the transmission of nerve impulses ; the contraction of cardiac , skeletal , and smooth muscle ; and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady - state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Each crystal of KCl is microencapsulated and allows for the controlled release of potassium and chloride ions over an eight - to ten - hour period .
Specific Populations Cirrhotics Based on publish literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Potassium chloride extended - release capsules are indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia in adults and children with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Potassium chloride extended - release capsules are contraindicated in patients on amiloride or triamterene .
WARNINGS : Solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride can produce ulcerative and / or stenotic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract , particularly if the drug is in contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa for a prolonged period of time .
Consider the use of liquid potassium in patients with dysphagia , swallowing disorders , or severe gastrointestinal motility disorders .
If severe vomiting , abdominal pain , distention , or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs , discontinue potassium chloride extended - release capsules and consider possibility of ulceration , obstruction or perforation .
Potassium chloride extended - release capsules should not be taken on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
PRECAUTIONS : General The diagnosis of potassium depletion is ordinarily made by demonstrating hypokalemia in a patient with a clinical history suggesting some cause for potassium depletion .
In interpreting the serum potassium level , the physician should bear in mind that acute alkalosis per se can produce hypokalemia in the absence of a deficit in total body potassium , while acute acidosis per se can increase the serum potassium concentration into the normal range even in the presence of a reduced total body potassium .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis , requires careful attention to acid - base balance and appropriate monitoring of serum electrolytes , the electrocardiogram , and the clinical status of the patient .
Information For Patients Physicians should consider reminding the patient of the following : To take each dose with meals and with a full glass of water or other suitable liquid .
To take each dose without crushing , chewing , or sucking the capsules .
To take this medicine following the frequency and amount prescribed by the physician .
This is especially important if the patient is also taking diuretics and / or digitalis preparations .
To check with the physician if there is trouble swallowing capsules or if the capsules seem to stick in the throat .
To check with the physician at once if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Laboratory Tests Regular serum potassium determinations are recommended , especially in patients with renal insufficiency or diabetic nephropathy .
When blood is drawn for analysis of plasma potassium it is important to recognize that artifactual elevations can occur after improper venipuncture technique or as a result of in vitro hemolysis of the sample .
Drug Interactions Potassium - sparing diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors ( see WARNINGS ) .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent .
There are no human data related to use of potassium chloride extended - release capsules during pregnancy and animal reproductive studies have not been conducted .
Potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia is not expected to cause fetal harm .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , as long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
Clinical trial data from published literature have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of potassium chloride in children with diarrhea and malnutrition from birth to 18 years .
Clinical studies of potassium chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following adverse reactions have been identified with use of oral potassium salts .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
There have been reports of hyperkalemia and of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including , obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation .
Skin rash has been reported rarely .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : 10 . 1 Symptoms The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result .
Hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - waves , depression of S - T segment , and prolongation of the QT - interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to 12 mEq / L ) .
10 . 2 Treatment Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : 1 .
Monitor closely for arrhythmias and electrolyte changes .
2 .
Eliminate foods and medications containing potassium and any agents with potassium - sparing properties such as potassium - sparing diuretics , ARBs , ACE inhibitors , NSAIDs , certain nutritional supplements , and many others .
3 .
Administer intravenous calcium gluconate if the patient is at no risk or low risk of developing digitalis toxicity .
4 .
Administer 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
5 .
Correct acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
6 .
Use exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
The extended - release feature means that absorption and toxic effects may be delayed for hours .
Consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : 2 . 1 Adminis tration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is < 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
Monitor serum potassium periodically during maintenance therapy to ensure potassium remains in desired range .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis requires careful attention to acid - base balance , volume status , electrolytes , including Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
magnesium , sodium , chloride , phosphate , and calcium , electrocardiograms and the clinical status of the patient .
Correct volume status , acid - base balance and electrolyte deficits as appropriate .
Administration Take with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid .
Do not take on an empty stomach because of the potential for gastric irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules may sprinkle the contents of the capsule onto a spoonful of soft food .
The soft food , such as applesauce or pudding , should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of water or juice to ensure complete swallowing of the microcapsules .
Do not added to hot foods .
Any microcapsule / food mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use .
2 . 2 Adult Dos ing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Dosages greater than 40 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 40 mEq is given in a single dose .
Treatment of hypokalemia : Typical dose range is 40 to 100 mEq per day .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day .
2 . 3 Pediatric Dos ing Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Do not exceed as a single dose 1 mEq / kg or 20 mEq , whichever is lower .
Treatment of hypokalemia : The recommended initial dose is 2 to 4 mEq / kg / day in divided doses .
If deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great , consider intravenous therapy .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose is 1 mEq / kg / day .
HOW SUPPLIED : Potassium Chloride Extended - release Capsules , USP , 8 mEq are white opaque capsules , imprinted with Andrx logo on the cap and 559 on the body , each containing 600 mg microencapsulated potassium chloride ( equivalent to 8 mEq K ) in bottles of 90 ( NDC 42291 - 678 - 90 ) .
Potassium Chloride Extended - release Capsules , USP , 10 mEq are dark blue opaque capsules , imprinted with Andrx logo on the cap and 560 on the body , each containing 750 mg microencapsulated potassium chloride ( equivalent to 10 mEq K ) in bottles of 90 ( 42291 - 679 - 90 ) , bottles of 500 ( 42291 - 679 - 50 ) .
Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 02 / 15 AV Rev . 03 / 16 ( P ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
