Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone , USP 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( Anti - itch ) Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis • for external genital , feminine and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
• for external feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• rectal bleeding occurs KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : do not use .
Consult a doctor .
Adults : for external anal itching : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product Children under 12 years of age : for external anal itching , consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients mineral oil , petrolatum Questions 1 - 800 - 858 - 3889 Distributed by : De La Cruz Products A Division of DLC Laboratories , Inc .
Paramount , CA 90723 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Box De La Cruz ® Anti - Itch Ointment Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone 1 % For Relief of Itching , Rashes and Skin Irritations • Fragrance Free • Rapid Relief Net Wt .
1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
