Active Ingredients Camphor 4 % Menthol 10 % Methyl Salicylate ( Wintergreen Oil ) 15 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
Allergy Alert : If you are allergic to aspirin or salicylates , consult a doctor before use .
Do not use • with a heating pad or other heat sources ( may blister skin ) • on children under 12 years of age • on wounds or damaged skin • if you are taking anticoagulant medication Ask a doctor before use if here is redness over the affected area .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop and ask a doctor if • skin redness or excessive irritation of the skin develops • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions • use only as directed • adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 or 4 times daily .
• avoid overuse on large areas of the skin • wash hands thoroughly after application • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients beeswax , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , Prunus amygdalus dulcis ( sweet almond ) oil , Rosmarinus officinialis ( rosemary ) extract , tocopherol ( natural vitamin E ) Questions ?
call 1 - 888 - 602 - 6380 Origins Natural Camphor is found in the wood of the Camphor Laurel tree ( Cinnamomum camphora ) , an evergreen species from Asia .
Natural Menthol is a substance found in peppermint and in other mint oils .
Natural Wintergreen Oil is extracted from the leaves of wintergreen plants such as the Eastern Teaberry ( Gaultheria procumbens ) .
Indications Earth ' s Care Pain Relieving Ointment is a powerful blend of three natural ingredients that provide soothing , penetrating relief from sore muscles , joint pain , backache and minor arthritis .
Our proprietary formula features naturally - sourced Camphor , Menthol and Wintergreen Oil that together work as an effective analgesic without parabens or phthalates .
• No Preservatives • No Animal Testing • No Artificial Colors or Fragrances • No Petrolatum Triple Action Formula : • Camphor • Menthol • Wintergreen Oil RETAIN CARTON FOR COMPLETE DRUG FACTS .
Distributed by : Earth ' s Care Natural Products , Inc .
Long Beach , California 90805 USA Questions : 1 - 888 - 602 - 6380 earths - care .
com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 71 g Jar Box EARTH ' S CARE ™ Allergy Tested PARABEN FREE TRIPLE ACTION Pain Relieving Ointment Relieves Minor Backache , Sprains , Muscle & Joint Pain 1 % FOR THE PLANET ℠ MEMBER 2 . 5 OZ .
( 71 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
