Drug Facts Active ingredients Sulfur 5 % Purpose Acne medication Uses for the treatment of acne • penetrates the pores and dries and clears pimples and blackheads • helps to keep new pimples and black heads from forming .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not get into eyes • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• apply only to areas with acne .
Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • excessive skin irritation develops or increases Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • leave on for 10 minutes • thoroughly remove with water • because excessive during of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Inactive ingredients Avena sativa ( oat ) kernel colloidal oatmeal , bentonite , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , cetearyl glucoside , citric acid , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , Helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , hydrogenated castor oil , kaolin , phenoxyethanol , potassium sorbate , purified water , sodium stearoyl glutamate , xanthan gum .
Indications Earth ' s Care Acne Treatment Mask utilizes the powerful anti - acne agent Sulfur to cleanse pores and start clearing blemishes and pimples on contact .
Formulated to reduce irritation as well as prevent future breakouts , our proprietary blend restores a smooth and healthy complexion .
Allergy tested and non - comedogenic ( will not clog pores ) , our clarifying mask formula does not contain parabens , phthalates , artificial colors or fragrance .
earths - care .
com * Allergy Tested for allergy Distributed by : Earth ' s Care Natural Products , Inc .
Long Beach , California 90805 USA Questions : 1 - 888 - 602 - 6380 Caring for you .
Caring for the earth .
Earth ' s Care donates 1 % of its worldwide revenue to organizations that work to preserve and protect the environment .
EARTH ' S CARE .
Acne Spot Treatment Origins Sulfur is an essential element for life , and is widely found in areas of natural volcanic activity and hot springs .
Revered since ancient times and featuring a distinctive bright yellow hue , it has long been used for a variety of medicinal purposes .
ALLERGY TESTED .
* No Animal Testing * No Parabens * No Artificial Colors or Fragrances * No Petrolatum * No Phthalates PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 71 g Tube Box Allergy Tested EARTH ' S CARE ® PARABEN FREE Acne Treatment Mask Sulfur 5 % Clears and Helps Prevent Acne with Natural Kaolin and Colloidal Oatmeal Non - Comedogenic 1 % FOR THE PLANET ℠ MEMBER 2 . 5 OZ .
( 71 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
