ACTIVE INGREDIENT PURPOSE Menthol 16 % Topical analgesic Uses Temporality alleviates minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with Arthritis , Simple Backache , Strains , Bruises , or Sprains Warnings : For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flames .
Avoid long term storage above 104 ° F . Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Do not bandage tightly .
Use only as directed .
Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not use for longer than 1 week .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions : Shake well – adults and children 12 year of age and older : spray product on affected area , not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
– children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients : Glycerin , propylene Glycol , SD Alcohol 40 ( 58 % ) , USP grade purified Water .
Dosage and Administration Shake well adults and children 12 years of age and older spray on affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years of age consult a doctor Indication & Usage temporarily relief of pain and itching associated with arthritis simple backache muscle strains bruises cramps muscle sprains OTC - Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of the children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
OTC Purpose Section temporarily relief of pain and itching associated with : arthritis • simple backache • muscle strains • bruises • cramps • muscle sprains Cool ' n heat , 16 % Menthol / Pain relieving Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
