OTC Active Ingredient Section Hydrocortisone 1 % Anti itch Principal Display Panel Anti Itch Spray . jpg USES Temporarily relieves itching associated with minorskin irritation and rashes due to : • eczema • poison ivy , oak and sumac • cosmetics • psoriasis • soaps and detergents • jewelry • insect bites • seborrheic dermatitis WARNINGS For external use only DO NOT USE • in or near the eyes • for external genital • vaginal or anal itching • for diaper rash : ask a doctor WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • Use only as directed .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure • Do not store at temperature above 120 F STOP USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF • condition worsens or does not improve withing 7 days • symptomspersist more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days KEEP OUT OF REACH OF THE CHILDREN If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away INACTIVE INGREDIENT Citric Acid , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Poloxamer 407 , Polysorbate 20 , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Water Dosage and Administration See Attached Image File Principal Display Panel Anti Itch Spray Indication & Usage For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritation and rashes due to : • eczema • poison ivy , oak and sumac • cosmetics • jewelry • soaps and detergents • insect bites .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Avoid contact with the eyes .
If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , stop use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ˚ F OTC - Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of the children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Anti - Itch Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
