This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 63 % w / w .
Purpose : Antimicrobial Purpose Antimicrobial , Hand Sanitizer Use Eliminates bacteria and germs .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from open flame and sources of heat .
This product is intended for external us only .
Do not use Do not use on children less than 2 months of age and on open wounds .
When using this product avoid content with eyes .
If contact occurs rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use if irritation or redness develops .
stop use and consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Apply a small amount to hands and spread evenly .
Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds .
Allow to dry .
For occassional and personal use .
Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product .
Other information • Store between 59 - 86 F • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above104F Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 g NDC : 76555 - 004 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
