DESCRIPTION Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % contains the broad - spectrum synthetic antifungal agent , ketoconazole 2 % .
Each gram , for topical administration , contains ketoconazole 20 mg and is formulated in an aqueous cream vehicle consisting of propylene glycol , purified water , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , sorbitan monostearate , polysorbate 60 , polysorbate 80 , and sodium sulfite , anhydrous : Ketoconazole is cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] piperazine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 26 H 28 Cl 2 N 4 O 4 M . W . 531 . 44 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When ketoconazole cream , 2 % was applied dermally to intact or abraded skin of Beagle dogs for 28 consecutive days at a dose of 80 mg , there were no detectable plasma levels using an assay method having a lower detection limit of 2 ng / ml .
After a single topical application to the chest , back and arms of normal volunteers , systemic absorption of ketoconazole was not detected at the 5 ng / ml level in blood over a 72 - hour period .
Two dermal irritancy studies , a human sensitization test , a phototoxicity study and a photoallergy study conducted in 38 male and 62 female volunteers showed no contact sensitization of the delayed hypersensitivity type , no irritation , no phototoxicity and no photoallergenic potential due to ketoconazole cream , 2 % .
Microbiology Ketoconazole is a broad spectrum synthetic antifungal agent which inhibits the in vitro growth of the following common dermatophytes and yeasts by altering the permeability of the cell membrane : dermatophytes : Trichophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes , T . tonsurans , Microsporum canis , M . audouini , M . gypseum and Epidermophyton floccosum ; yeasts : Candida albicans , Malassezia ovale ( Pityrosporum ovale ) and C . tropicalis ; and the organism responsible for tinea versicolor , Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum orbiculare ) .
Only those organisms listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE Section have been proven to be clinically affected .
Development of resistance to ketoconazole has not been reported .
Mode of Action In vitro studies suggest that ketoconazole impairs the synthesis of ergosterol , which is a vital component of fungal cell membranes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea corporis , tinea cruris and tinea pedis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes and Epidermophyton floccosum ; in the treatment of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor caused by Malassezia furfur ( Pityrosporum orbiculare ) ; and in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis caused by Candida spp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to the active or excipient ingredients of this formulation .
WARNINGS Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % is not for opthalmic use .
Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % contains sodium sulfite anhydrous , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Hepatitis ( 1 : 10 , 000 reported incidence ) and , at high doses , lowered testosterone and ACTH induced corticosteroid serum levels have been seen with orally administered ketoconazole ; these effects have not been seen with topical ketoconazole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A long - term feeding study in Swiss Albino mice and in Wistar rats showed no evidence of oncogenic activity .
The dominant lethal mutation test in male and female mice revealed that single oral doses of ketoconazole as high as 80 mg / kg produced no mutation in any stage of germ cell development .
The Ames ’ Salmonella microsomal activator assay was also negative .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Ketoconazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( syndactylia and oligodactylia ) in the rat when given orally in the diet at 80 mg / kg / day , ( 10 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ) .
However , these effects may be related to maternal toxicity , which was seen at this and higher dose levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketoconazole should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ketoconazole cream , 2 % administered topically could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 ( 5 % ) of 905 patients treated with ketoconazole cream , 2 % and 5 ( 2 . 4 % ) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation , pruritus and stinging .
One of the patients treated with ketoconazole cream developed a painful allergic reaction .
In worldwide postmarketing experience , rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with ketoconazole cream or one of its excipients , namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cutaneous candidiasis , tinea corporis , tinea cruris , tinea pedis , and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor : It is recommended that ketoconazole cream , 2 % be applied once daily to cover the affected and immediate surrounding area .
Clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually require two weeks of treatment .
Patients with tinea pedis require six weeks of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketoconazole Cream , 2 % is supplied in 15 , 30 , and 60 gram tubes .
30 g tube ( NDC 68071 - 2309 - 3 ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured In Croatia By : Pliva Hrvatska d . o . o . Zagreb , Croatia Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . A 9 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
