Active ingredient Capsicum Oleoresin ( Containing Capsaicin 0 . 05 % ) Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Warnings For external use only • This is not a face cream .
Do not apply to the face .
• Do not use at the same time with other topical analgesics • Do not use if allergic to chili peppers or if past allergic reaction to capsaicin .
• Do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken , sunburned , chapped , or irritated skin .
• Do not bandage tightly .
• Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath , shower , hot tub , sauna , or vigorous exercise .
Warm water , perspiration , or open pores can intensify the impact of this product and burning sensation .
• Do not use with heating pad , hot water bottle or other source of heat .
Doing so can increase risk of serious burn .
When using this product • Do not get into the eyes and avoid contact with other mucous membranes .
If contact occurs or if pain , discomfort , or skin redness occurs , continually rinse with cool water and seek medical help .
Discontinue use and consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Stop using and get immediate medical attention if experience burning , pain , swelling , or blistering of the skin .
Rare cases of severe burning or blistering have been reported .
If pregnant , breast - feeding or any medical conditions exist , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If inhaled , remove to fresh air .
If breathing is difficult , get medical attention immediately .
Directions • Before using on children under 18 years of age consult a physician .
• Apply sparingly to affected area not more than 4 times daily .
However , for first use , apply to small area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction • Gently massage into the skin until fully absorbed • Wash hands with soap and water thoroughly after each application to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes .
Storage WARNING : FLAMMABLE PRODUCT Store in a cool well - ventilated area away from heat .
Keep away from sparks or open flame .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not use if package is damaged .
Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Juice Powder , Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Bisabolol , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Calcium D - Pantothenate , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Cetearyl Alcohol , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Dimethicone , DL - α - Tocopheryl Acetate , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Isopropyl Myristate , Laureth - 7 , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Maltodextrin , Myristyl Myristate , Niacinamide , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Pyridoxine Hydrochloride , Silicon Dioxide , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Starch Octenylsuccinate , Zingiber Officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extract Questions or comments ?
For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 Circatrix ™ Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation Panorama City , CA 91402 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
