Rx Only DESCRIPTION Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 50 mg of Sulfur in an aqueous based emollient foam vehicle containing : Butane , Butylene Glycol , Cellulose Gum , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Glycerin , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Polysorbate 20 , Propane , Titanium Dioxide , Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium sulfacetamide exhibits antibacterial activity .
The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it is reported to result from the interaction of sulfur with the cysteine content of keratinocytes .
Furthermore , in combination with sulfacetamide , sulfur has been reported to inhibit the growth of Propionibacterium acnes , thereby adding to the product ’ s antibacterial activity and reducing associated inflammation .
INDICATIONS SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity or skin rash , discontinue use of this preparation .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of involved skin to be treated are denuded or abraded .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
PRECAUTIONS General The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the skin .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Information for Patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam .
When administered to a pregnant woman , it also is not known whether SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm .
SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash affected areas before use , 1 to 2 times daily as directed by physician .
Before each use , shake can vigorously , then gently tap the bottom of the can on a firm surface or in palm of other hand .
Tap can 1 - 2 times , then shake and tap again .
Dispense can upright .
Depress the actuator and dispense a small amount of foam ( not more than a dollop the size of a golf ball ) .
Pointing the can down will cause propellent loss .
Wash affected areas and apply foam 1 or 2 times a day as directed by a physician .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Wash - off Application : Massage the dispensed foam into the affected areas and wait 1 to 2 minutes .
Rinse thoroughly with water and pat dry .
Treat the affected area 1 to 2 times daily , as directed by a physician .
Leave - on Application : Massage the foam into the affected areas 1 to 2 times daily , as directed by a physician .
Wipe off any excess foam from actuator after use .
HOW SUPPLIED SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam is available in a 60 g aluminum can , NDC 42192 - 143 - 60 .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Storage : Store SSS 10 - 5 Emollient Foam between 68 ° and 77 ° F ( 20 ° and 25 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Store upright .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical information provided herein .
Manufactured for : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0117 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Bottle Label NDC 42192 - 143 - 60 SSS 10 - 5 ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % and Sulfur 5 % ) Emollient Foam Rx Only For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
60 g Acella PHARMACEUTICAL , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
