DESCRIPTION Acebutolol HCl , USP is a selective , hydrophilic beta - adrenoreceptor blocking agent with mild intrinsic sympathomimetic activity for use in treating patients with hypertension and ventricular arrhythmias .
It is marketed in capsule form for oral administration .
Acebutolol HCl capsules , USP are provided in two dosage strengths which contain 200 mg or 400 mg of acebutolol as the hydrochloride salt .
The inactive ingredients present are D & C Red 28 , D & C Yellow 10 , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 40 , gelatin , maize starch , povidone , stearic acid and titanium dioxide .
Acebutolol HCl , USP has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 18 H 28 N 2 O 4 • HCl M . W . 372 . 89 Acebutolol HCl , USP is a white or slightly off - white powder freely soluble in water , and less soluble in alcohol .
Chemically it is defined as the hydrochloride salt of ( ± ) N - [ 3 - Acetyl - 4 - [ 2 - hydroxy - 3 - [ ( 1 - methylethyl ) amino ] propoxy ] phenyl ] butanamide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acebutolol is a cardioselective , β - adrenoreceptor blocking agent , which possesses mild intrinsic sympathomimetic activity ( ISA ) in its therapeutically effective dose range .
Pharmacodynamics β 1 - cardioselectivity has been demonstrated in experimental animal studies .
In anesthetized dogs and cats , acebutolol is more potent in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced tachycardia ( β 1 ) than in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced vasodilatation ( β 2 ) .
In guinea pigs and cats , it is more potent in antagonizing this tachycardia than in antagonizing isoproterenol - induced bronchodilatation ( β 2 ) .
ISA of acebutolol has been demonstrated in catecholamine - depleted rats by tachycardia induced by intravenous administration of this agent .
A membrane - stabilizing effect has been detected in animals , but only with high concentrations of acebutolol .
Clinical studies have demonstrated β 1 - blocking activity at the recommended doses by : a ) reduction in the resting heart rate and decrease in exercise - induced tachycardia ; b ) reduction in cardiac output at rest and after exercise ; c ) reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressures at rest and post exercise ; d ) inhibition of isoproterenol - induced tachycardia .
The β 1 - selectivity of acebutolol has also been demonstrated on the basis of the following vascular and bronchial effects : Vascular Effects : Acebutolol has less antagonistic effects on peripheral vascular β 2 - receptors at rest and after epinephrine stimulation than nonselective β - antagonists .
Bronchial Effects : In single - dose studies in asthmatics examining effects of various beta - blockers on pulmonary function , low doses of acebutolol produce less evidence of bronchoconstriction and less reduction of beta 2 agonist , bronchodilating effects , than nonselective agents like propranolol but more than atenolol .
ISA has been observed with acebutolol in man , as shown by a slightly smaller ( about 3 beats per minute ) decrease in resting heart rate when compared to equivalent β - blocking doses of propranolol , metoprolol or atenolol .
Chronic therapy with acebutolol induced no significant alteration in the blood lipid profile .
Acebutolol has been shown to delay AV conduction time and to increase the refractoriness of the AV node without significantly affecting sinus node recovery time , atrial refractory period , or the HV conduction time .
The membrane - stabilizing effect of acebutolol is not manifest at the doses used clinically .
Significant reductions in resting and exercise heart rates and systolic blood pressures have been observed 1 . 5 hours after acebutolol administration with maximal effects occurring between 3 and 8 hours post - dosing in normal volunteers .
Acebutolol has demonstrated a significant effect on exercise - induced tachycardia 24 to 30 hours after drug administration .
There are significant correlations between plasma levels of acebutolol and both the reduction in resting heart rate and the percent of β - blockade of exercise - induced tachycardia .
The antihypertensive effect of acebutolol has been shown in double - blind controlled studies to be superior to placebo and similar to propranolol and hydrochlorothiazide .
In addition , patients responding to acebutolol administered twice daily had a similar response whether the dosage regimen was changed to once daily administration or continued on a b . i . d . regimen .
Most patients responded to 400 to 800 mg per day in divided doses .
The antiarrhythmic effect of acebutolol was compared with placebo , propranolol , and quinidine .
Compared with placebo , acebutolol significantly reduced mean total ventricular ectopic beats ( VEB ) , paired VEB , multiform VEB , R - on - T beats , and ventricular tachycardia ( VT ) .
Both acebutolol and propranolol significantly reduced mean total and paired VEB and VT .
Acebutolol and quinidine significantly reduced resting total and complex VEB ; the antiarrhythmic efficacy of acebutolol was also observed during exercise .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Acebutolol is well absorbed from the GI tract .
It is subject to extensive first - pass hepatic biotransformation , with an absolute bioavailability of approximately 40 % for the parent compound .
The major metabolite , an N - acetyl derivative ( diacetolol ) , is pharmacologically active .
This metabolite is equipotent to acebutolol and in cats is more cardioselective than acebutolol ; therefore , this first - pass phenomenon does not attenuate the therapeutic effect of acebutolol .
Food intake does not have a significant effect on the area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of acebutolol although the rate of absorption and peak concentration decreased slightly .
The plasma elimination half - life of acebutolol is approximately 3 to 4 hours , while that of its metabolite , diacetolol , is 8 to 13 hours .
The time to reach peak concentration for acebutolol is 2 . 5 hours and for diacetolol , after oral administration of acebutolol , 3 . 5 hours .
Within the single oral dose range of 200 to 400 mg , the kinetics are dose proportional .
However , this linearity is not seen at higher doses , probably due to saturation of hepatic biotransformation sites .
In addition , after multiple dosing the lack of linearity is also seen by AUC increases of approximately 100 % as compared to single oral dosing .
Elimination via renal excretion is approximately 30 % to 40 % and by nonrenal mechanisms 50 % to 60 % , which includes excretion into the bile and direct passage through the intestinal wall .
Acebutolol has a low binding affinity for plasma proteins ( about 26 % ) .
Acebutolol and its metabolite , diacetolol , are relatively hydrophilic and , therefore , only minimal quantities have been detected in the cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) .
Drug interaction studies with tolbutamide and warfarin indicated no influence on the therapeutic effects of these compounds .
Digoxin and hydrochlorothiazide plasma levels were not affected by concomitant acebutolol administration .
The kinetics of acebutolol were not significantly altered by concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide , hydralazine , sulfinpyrazone , or oral contraceptives .
In patients with renal impairment , there is no effect on the elimination half - life of acebutolol , but there is decreased elimination of the metabolite , diacetolol , resulting in a two - to three - fold increase in its half - life .
For this reason , the drug should be administered with caution in patients with renal insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Acebutolol and its major metabolite are dialyzable .
Acebutolol crosses the placental barrier and is secreted in breast milk .
In geriatric patients , the bioavailability of acebutolol and its metabolite is increased , approximately two - fold , probably due to decreases in the first - pass metabolism and renal function in the elderly .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Acebutolol HCl capsules are indicated for the management of hypertension in adults .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents , especially thiazide - type diuretics .
Ventricular Arrhythmias Acebutolol HCl capsules are indicated in the management of ventricular premature beats ; it reduces the total number of premature beats , as well as the number of paired and multiform ventricular ectopic beats , and R - on - T beats .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Acebutolol HCl is contraindicated in : 1 ) persistently severe bradycardia ; 2 ) second - and third - degree heart block ; 3 ) overt cardiac failure ; and 4 ) cardiogenic shock ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by β - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
Although β - blockers should be avoided in overt cardiac failure , acebutolol can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are controlled with digitalis and / or diuretics .
Both digitalis and acebutolol impair AV conduction .
If cardiac failure persists , therapy with acebutolol should be withdrawn .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure In patients with aortic or mitral valve disease or compromised left ventricular function , continued depression of the myocardium with β - blocking agents over a period of time may lead to cardiac failure .
At the first signs of failure , patients should be digitalized and / or be given a diuretic and the response observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues despite adequate digitalization and / or diuretic , acebutolol therapy should be withdrawn .
Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain β - blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease , exacerbation of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction and death have been reported .
Therefore , such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without a physician ’ s advice .
Even in the absence of overt ischemic heart disease , when discontinuation of acebutolol is planned , the patient should be carefully observed , and should be advised to limit physical activity to a minimum while acebutolol is gradually withdrawn over a period of about two weeks .
( If therapy with an alternative β - blocker is desired , the patient may be transferred directly to comparable doses of another agent without interruption of β - blocking therapy . )
If an exacerbation of angina pectoris occurs , antianginal therapy should be restarted immediately in full doses and the patient hospitalized until his condition stabilizes .
Peripheral Vascular Disease Treatment with β - antagonists reduces cardiac output and can precipitate or aggravate the symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral or mesenteric vascular disease .
Caution should be exercised with such patients , and they should be observed closely for evidence of progression of arterial obstruction .
Bronchospastic Disease PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE A β - BLOCKER .
Because of its relative β 1 - selectivity , however , low doses of acebutolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or who cannot tolerate , alternative treatment .
Since β 1 - selectivity is not absolute and is dose - dependent , the lowest possible dose of acebutolol should be used initially , preferably in divided doses to avoid the higher plasma levels associated with the longer dose - interval .
A bronchodilator , such as theophylline or a β 2 - stimulant , should be made available in advance with instructions concerning its use .
WARNINGS , Major Surgery Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia β - blockers may potentiate insulin - induced hypoglycemia and mask some of its manifestations such as tachycardia ; however , dizziness and sweating are usually not significantly affected .
Diabetic patients should be warned of the possibility of masked hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis β - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Abrupt withdrawal of β - blockade may precipitate a thyroid storm ; therefore , patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom acebutolol therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely .
PRECAUTIONS Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
Impaired Renal or Hepatic Function Studies on the effect of acebutolol in patients with renal insufficiency have not been performed in the U . S . Foreign published experience shows that acebutolol has been used successfully in chronic renal insufficiency .
Acebutolol is excreted through the GI tract , but the active metabolite , diacetolol , is eliminated predominantly by the kidney .
There is a linear relationship between renal clearance of diacetolol and creatinine clearance .
Therefore , the daily dose of acebutolol should be reduced by 50 % when the creatinine clearance is less than 50 mL / min and by 75 % when it is less than 25 mL / min .
Acebutolol should be used cautiously in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Acebutolol has been used successfully and without problems in elderly patients in the U . S . clinical trials without specific adjustment of dosage .
However , elderly patients may require lower maintenance doses because the bioavailability of both acebutolol and its metabolite are approximately doubled in this age group .
Information for Patients Patients , especially those with evidence of coronary artery disease , should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of acebutolol therapy without a physician ’ s supervision .
Although cardiac failure rarely occurs in properly selected patients , those being treated with β - adrenergic blocking agents should be advised to consult a physician if they develop signs or symptoms suggestive of impending CHF , or unexplained respiratory symptoms .
Patients should also be warned of possible severe hypertensive reactions from concomitant use of α - adrenergic stimulants , such as the nasal decongestants commonly used in OTC cold preparations and nasal drops .
Clinical Laboratory Findings Acebutolol , like other β - blockers , has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies ( ANA ) .
In prospective clinical trials , patients receiving acebutolol had a dose - dependent increase in the development of positive ANA titers , and the overall incidence was higher than that observed with propranolol .
Symptoms ( generally persistent arthralgias and myalgias ) related to this laboratory abnormality were infrequent ( less than 1 % with both drugs ) .
Symptoms and ANA titers were reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
Drug Interactions Catecholamine - depleting drugs , such as reserpine , may have an additive effect when given with β - blocking agents .
Patients treated with acebutolol plus catecholamine depletors should , therefore , be observed closely for evidence of marked bradycardia or hypotension which may present as vertigo , syncope / presyncope , or orthostatic changes in blood pressure without compensatory tachycardia .
Exaggerated hypertensive responses have been reported from the combined use of β - adrenergic antagonists and α - adrenergic stimulants , including those contained in proprietary cold remedies and vasoconstrictive nasal drops .
Patients receiving β - blockers should be warned of this potential hazard .
Blunting of the antihypertensive effect of beta - adrenoreceptor blocking agents by nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported .
No significant interactions with digoxin , hydrochlorothiazide , hydralazine , sulfinpyrazone , oral contraceptives , tolbutamide , or warfarin have been observed .
Both digitalis glycosides and beta - blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic oral toxicity studies in rats and mice , employing dose levels as high as 300 mg / kg / day , which is equivalent to 15 times the maximum recommended ( 60 kg ) human dose , did not indicate a carcinogenic potential for acebutolol .
Diacetolol , the major metabolite of acebutolol in man , was without carcinogenic potential in rats when tested at doses as high as 1800 mg / kg / day .
Acebutolol and diacetolol were also shown to be devoid of mutagenic potential in the Ames Test .
Acebutolol , administered orally to two generations of male and female rats at doses of up to 240 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to 12 times the maximum recommended therapeutic dose in a 60 - kg human ) and diacetolol , administered to two generations of male and female rats at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day , had no significant impact on reproductive performance or fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed with acebutolol in rats ( up to 630 mg / kg / day ) and rabbits ( up to 135 mg / kg / day ) .
These doses are equivalent to approximately 31 . 5 and 6 . 8 times the maximum recommended therapeutic dose in a 60 - kg human , respectively .
The compound was not teratogenic in either species .
In the rabbit , however , doses of 135 mg / kg / day caused slight fetal growth retardation ; this effect was considered to be a result of maternal toxicity , as evidenced by reduced food intake , a lowered rate of body weight gain , and mortality .
Studies have also been performed in these species with diacetolol ( at doses of up to 450 mg / kg / day in rabbits and up to 1800 mg / kg / day in rats ) .
Other than a significant elevation in post - implantation loss with 450 mg / kg / day diacetolol , a level at which food consumption and body weight gain were reduced in rabbit dams and a nonstatistically significant increase in incidence of bilateral cataract in rat fetuses from dams treated with 1800 mg / kg / day diacetolol , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled trials in pregnant women .
Because animal teratology studies are not always predictive of the human response , acebutolol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Studies in humans have shown that both acebutolol and diacetolol cross the placenta .
Neonates of mothers who have received acebutolol during pregnancy have reduced birth weight , decreased blood pressure , and decreased heart rate .
In the newborn the elimination half - life of acebutolol was 6 to 14 hours , while the half - life of diacetolol was 24 to 30 hours for the first 24 hours after birth , followed by a half - life of 12 to 16 hours .
Adequate facilities for monitoring these infants at birth should be available .
Labor and Delivery The effect of acebutolol on labor and delivery in pregnant women is unknown .
Studies in animals have not shown any effect of acebutolol on the usual course of labor and delivery .
Nursing Mothers Acebutolol and diacetolol also appear in breast milk with a milk : plasma ratio of 7 . 1 and 12 . 2 , respectively .
Use in nursing mothers is not recommended .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of acebutolol and other reported clinical experience is inadequate to determine whether there are differences in safety or effectiveness between patients above or below age 65 .
Elderly subjects evidence greater bioavailability of acebutolol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokentics and Metabolism ) , presumably because of age related reduction in first - pass metabolism and renal function .
Therefore , it may be appropriate to start elderly patients at the low end of the dosing range ( see DOSAGE AND ADMISTRATION - Use in Older Patients ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Acebutolol is well tolerated in properly selected patients .
Most adverse reactions have been mild , not required discontinuation of therapy , and tended to decrease as duration of treatment increases .
The following table shows the frequency of treatment - related side effects derived from controlled clinical trials in patients with hypertension , angina pectoris , and arrhythmia .
These patients received acebutolol , propranolol , or hydrochlorothiazide as monotherapy , or placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The following selected ( potentially important ) side effects were seen in up to 2 % of acebutolol patients : Cardiovascular : hypotension , bradycardia , heart failure .
Central Nervous System : anxiety , hyper / hypoesthesia , impotence .
Dermatological : pruritus .
Gastrointestinal : vomiting , abdominal pain .
Genitourinary : dysuria , nocturia .
Liver and Biliary System : A small number of cases of liver abnormalities ( increased SGOT , SGPT , LDH ) have been reported in association with acebutolol therapy .
In some cases increased bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase , fever , malaise , dark urine , anorexia , nausea , headache , and / or other symptoms have been reported .
In some of the reported cases , the symptoms and signs were confirmed by rechallenge with acebutolol .
The abnormalities were reversible upon cessation of acebutolol therapy .
Musculoskeletal : back pain , joint pain .
Respiratory : pharyngitis , wheezing .
Special Senses : conjunctivitis , dry eye , eye pain .
Autoimmune : In extremely rare instances , systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
The incidence of drug - related adverse effects ( volunteered and solicited ) according to acebutolol dose is shown below .
( Data from 266 hypertensive patients treated for 3 months on a constant dose . )
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Potential Adverse Events In addition , certain adverse effects not listed above have been reported with other β - blocking agents and should also be considered as potential adverse effects of acebutolol .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ( an acute syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place ) , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance ( neuropsychometrics ) .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic , and thrombocytopenic purpura .
Gastrointestinal : Mesenteric arterial thrombosis and ischemic colitis .
Miscellaneous : Reversible alopecia and Peyronie ’ s disease .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the β - blocker practolol has not been reported with acebutolol during investigational use and extensive foreign clinical experience .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 361 - 3993 ; email drugsafety @ avkare . com ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE No specific information on emergency treatment of overdosage is available for acebutolol .
However , overdosage with other β - blocking agents has been accompanied by extreme bradycardia , advanced atrioventricular block , intraventricular conduction defects , hypotension , severe congestive heart failure , seizures , and in susceptible patients , bronchospasm and hypoglycemia .
Although specific information on the emergency treatment of acebutolol overdose is not available on the basis of the pharmacological actions and the observations in treating overdoses with other β - blockers , the following general measures should be considered : 1 .
Empty stomach by emesis or lavage .
2 .
Bradycardia : IV atropine ( 1 to 3 mg in divided doses ) .
If antivagal response is inadequate , administer isoproterenol cautiously since larger than usual doses of isoproterenol may be required .
3 .
Persistent hypotension in spite of correction of bradycardia : Administer vasopressor ( e . g . , epinephrine , norepinephrine , dopamine , or dobutamine ) with frequent monitoring of blood pressure and pulse rate .
4 .
Bronchospasm : A theophylline derivative , such as aminophylline and / or parenteral β 2 - stimulant , such as terbutaline .
5 .
Cardiac failure : Digitalize the patient and / or administer a diuretic .
It has been reported that glucagon is useful in this situation .
Acebutolol is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dosage of acebutolol in uncomplicated mild - to - moderate hypertension is 400 mg .
This can be given as a single daily dose , but in occasional patients twice daily dosing may be required for adequate 24 - hour blood - pressure control .
An optimal response is usually achieved with dosages of 400 to 800 mg per day , although some patients have been maintained on as little as 200 mg per day .
Patients with more severe hypertension or who have demonstrated inadequate control may respond to a total of 1200 mg daily ( administered b . i . d . ) , or to the addition of a second antihypertensive agent .
Beta - 1 selectivity diminishes as dosage is increased .
Ventricular Arrhythmia The usual initial dose of acebutolol is 400 mg daily given as 200 mg b . i . d . Dosage should be increased gradually until an optimal clinical response is obtained , generally at 600 to 1200 mg per day .
If treatment is to be discontinued , the dosage should be reduced gradually over a period of about two weeks .
Use in Older Patients Older patients have an approximately 2 - fold increase in bioavailability and may require lower maintenance doses .
Doses above 800 mg / day should be avoided in the elderly .
HOW SUPPLIED Acebutolol HCl capsules , USP are available as follows : 200 mg : Hard gelatin capsules with bright orange opaque body printed radially “ 669 ” with black ink and lavender opaque cap printed radially “ Amneal ” with black ink .
NDC 50268 - 050 - 15 10 capsules per card , 5 cards per carton 400 mg : Hard gelatin capsules with bright orange opaque body printed radially “ 670 ” with black ink and lavender opaque cap printed radially “ Amneal ” with black ink .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispensed in Unit Dose Package .
For Institutional Use Only .
Manufactured for : AvKARE , Inc .
Pulaski , TN 38478 Mfg . Rev . 05 - 2017 - 00 AV Rev . 03 / 19 ( P ) AvPAK PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
