DESCRIPTION Clonidine Hydrochloride is a centrally acting alpha - agonist hypotensive agent available as tablets for oral administration in three dosage strengths : 0 . 1 mg , 0 . 2 mg , and 0 . 3 mg .
The 0 . 1 mg tablet is equivalent to 0 . 087 mg of the free base .
The following inactive ingredients are contained in these products : corn starch , D and C yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD and C yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake ( Sunset Yellow Lake ) , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and sodium starch glycolate .
Clonidine hydrochloride is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound .
The chemical name is 2 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenylamino ) - 2 - imidazoline hydrochloride .
The following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine hydrochloride is an odorless , bitter , white , crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
Clonidine hydrochloride , acts relatively rapidly .
The patient ’ s blood pressure declines within 30 to 60 minutes after an oral dose , the maximum decrease occurring within 2 to 4 hours .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact , therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
Acute studies with clonidine hydrochloride in humans have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % to 20 % ) of cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance : at a 45 ° tilt there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic response to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a reevaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates growth hormone release in both children and adults , but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
Pharmacokinetics : The plasma level of clonidine peaks in approximately 3 to 5 hours and the plasma half - life ranges from 12 to 16 hours .
The half - life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Following oral administration about 40 - 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
Clonidine hydrochloride may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS Withdrawal : Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride , the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine .
Because children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting , they may be particularly susceptible to hypertensive episodes resulting from abrupt inability to take medication .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which appear to be dose - related ) are dry mouth , occurring in about 40 of 100 patients ; drowsiness , about 33 in 100 ; dizziness , about 16 in 100 ; constipation and sedation , each about 10 in 100 .
The following less frequent adverse experiences have also been reported in patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established .
Body As A Whole : Weakness , about 10 in 100 patients ; fatigue , about 4 in 100 ; headache and withdrawal syndrome each about 1 in 100 .
Also reported were pallor ; a weakly positive Coombs ’ test , increased sensitivity to alcohol ; and fever .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic symptoms , about 3 in 100 patients ; palpitations and tachycardia , and bradycardia , each about 5 in 1000 .
Syncope , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , congestive heart failure , and electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . sinus node arrest , functional bradycardia , high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) have been reported rarely .
Rare cases of sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System : Nervousness and agitation , about 3 in 100 patients ; mental depression , about 1 in 100 and insomnia , about 5 in 1000 .
Other behavioral changes , vivid dreams or nightmares , restlessness , anxiety , visual and auditory hallucinations and delirium have rarely been reported .
Dermatological : Rash , about 1 in 100 patients ; pruritus , about 7 in 1000 ; hives , angioneurotic edema and urticaria , about 5 in 1000 ; alopecia , about 2 in 1000 .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting , about 5 in 100 patients ; anorexia and malaise , each about 1 in 100 ; mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests , about 1 in 100 ; hepatitis , parotitis , constipation , pseudo - obstruction , and abdominal pain , rarely .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity , impotence and loss of libido , about 3 in 100 patients ; nocturia , about 1 in 100 ; difficulty in micturition , about 2 in 1000 ; urinary retention , about 1 in 1000 .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia , rarely .
Metabolic : Weight gain , about 1 in 100 patients ; gynecomastia , about 1 in 1000 ; transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase , rarely .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle or joint pain , about 6 in 1000 and leg cramps , about 3 in 1000 .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa was rarely reported .
Ophthalmological : Dryness of eyes , burning of the eyes and blurred vision were reported .
OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Clonidine overdosage may result in the rapid development of CNS depression ; therefore , induction of vomiting with ipecac syrup is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated following recent and / or large ingestions .
Administration of activated charcoal and / or a cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date involved a 28 - year old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semicoma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / ml after 1 hour , 190 ng / ml after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / ml after 2 hours , and 120 ng / ml after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : The dose of clonidine hydrochloride must be adjusted according to the patient ’ s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a general guide to its administration .
Initial Dose : 0 . 1 mg tablet twice daily ( morning and bedtime ) .
Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Maintenance Dose : Further increments of 0 . 1 mg per day may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved .
Taking the larger portion of the oral daily dose at bedtime may minimize transient adjustment effects of dry mouth and drowsiness .
The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0 . 2 mg to 0 . 6 mg per day given in divided doses .
Studies have indicated that 2 . 4 mg is the maximum effective daily dose , but doses as high as this have rarely been employed .
Renal Impairment : Dosage must be adjusted according to the degree of impairment , and patients should be carefully monitored .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 1 mg — Each orange , round tablet imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] and 127 on one side and bisect on the other side contains 0 . 1 mg of Clonidine hydrochloride USP and is supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2127 - 10 ) and 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2127 - 50 ) .
0 . 2 mg — Each orange , round tablet imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 128 and bisect on the other side contains 0 . 2 mg of Clonidine hydrochloride USP and is supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2128 - 10 ) and 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2128 - 50 ) .
0 . 3 mg — Each orange , round tablet imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and 129 and bisect on the other side contains 0 . 3 mg of Clonidine hydrochloride USP and is supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2129 - 10 ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Actavis Elizabeth LLC 200 Elmora Avenue Elizabeth , NJ 07207 USA 40 - 9009 Revised — January 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
