Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep away from face to avoid breathing in .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark , or while smoking .
Directions • Shake well • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face • Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Bisabolol , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Extract , Fragrance , Glycerin , Polyester - 8 , Porphyra Umbilicalis Extract , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Sodium Hyaluronate , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Water Question or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 320 - 2381 www . soleiltoujours . com Soleil Toujours SPF 30 Sheer Sunscreen Mist - 85 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
