Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose ( in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) ) Codeine Phosphate USP 10 mg ................... Antitussive Guaifenesin USP 100 mg ...........................
Expectorant Uses • • temporarily relieves : • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold or inhaled irritants • • your cough to help you sleep • • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and makes cough more productive Indications and Usage • • temporarily relieves : • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold or inhaled irritants • • your cough to help you sleep • • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and makes cough more productive Warnings Ask your doctor before use if • • you have a persistent cough , this may be a sign of a serious condition • • you have a persistent cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • • you have a cough that is accompanied by excessive phlegm ( mucus ) • • you have chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath • • giving to a child who is taking other drugs When using this product • • giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor could result in serious side effects for your child .
A special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age .
• • may cause or aggravate constipation Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms do not improve within 7 days , tend to recur or are accompanied by fever and rash or persistent headache .
These may be symptoms of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Directions • • do not exceed 6 doses in 24 hours .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 tsp ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 tsp ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours , or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other Information Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients Cherry Flavor , Citric Acid , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol Manufactured For : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 Rev . 07 / 2019 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
