1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Solution containing 20 mg / mL dorzolamide ( 22 . 3 mg of dorzolamide hydrochloride ) .
Solution containing 20 mg / mL dorzolamide .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dorzolamide hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • 1 .
Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity ( 5 . 1 ) • 2 .
Bacterial Keratitis ( 5 . 2 ) • 3 .
Corneal Endothelium ( 5 . 3 ) • 4 .
Allergic Reactions ( 5 . 4 ) • 5 .
Acute Angle - Closure Glaucoma ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Sulfonamide Hypersensitivity Dorzolamide hydrochloride contains dorzolamide , a sulfonamide ; and although administered topically , it is absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur , discontinue the use of this preparation [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Bacterial Keratitis There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
5 . 3 Corneal Endothelium Carbonic anhydrase activity has been observed in both the cytoplasm and around the plasma membranes of the corneal endothelium .
There is an increased potential for developing corneal edema in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
Caution should be used when prescribing dorzolamide hydrochloride to this group of patients .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions In clinical studies , local ocular adverse effects , primarily conjunctivitis and lid reactions , were reported with chronic administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
Many of these reactions had the clinical appearance and course of an allergic - type reaction that resolved upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
If such reactions are observed , dorzolamide hydrochloride should be discontinued and the patient evaluated before considering restarting the drug [ see AdverseReactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Acute Angel - Closure Glaucoma The management of patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma requires therapeutic interventions in addition to ocular hypotensive agents .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions associated with dorzolamide hydrochloride were ocular burning , stinging , or discomfort immediately following ocular administration ( approximately one - third of patients ) .
Approximately one - quarter of patients noted a bitter taste following administration .
Superficial punctate keratitis occurred in 10 to 15 % of patients and signs and symptoms of ocular allergic reaction in approximately 10 % .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Controlled clinical trials : The most frequent adverse reactions associated with dorzolamide hydrochloride were ocular burning , stinging , or discomfort immediately following ocular administration ( approximately one - third of patients ) .
Approximately one - quarter of patients noted a bitter taste following administration .
Superficial punctate keratitis occurred in 10 to 15 % of patients and signs and symptoms of ocular allergic reaction in approximately 10 % .
Reactions occurring in approximately 1 to 5 % of patients were conjunctivitis and lid reactions [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] , blurred vision , eye redness , tearing , dryness , and photophobia .
Other ocular reactions and systemic reactions were reported infrequently , including headache , nausea , asthenia / fatigue ; and , rarely , skin rashes , urolithiasis , and iridocyclitis .
In a 3 - month , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled , multicenter study in pediatric patients , the adverse reactions profile of dorzolamide hydrochloride was comparable to that seen in adult patients .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including angioedema , bronchospasm , pruritus , and urticaria ; Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ; dizziness , paresthesia ; ocular pain , transient myopia , choroidal detachment following filtration surgery , eyelid crusting ; dyspnea ; contact dermatitis , epistaxis , dry mouth and throat irritation .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • 1 .
Potential additive effect of oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor with dorzolamide hydrochloride .
( 7 . 1 ) • 2 .
Potential acid - base and electrolyte disturbances .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and dorzolamide hydrochloride .
The concomitant administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended .
7 . 2 High - Dose Salicylate Therapy Although acid - base and electrolyte disturbances were not reported in the clinical trials with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , these disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and have , in some instances , resulted in drug interactions ( e . g . , toxicity associated with high - dose salicylate therapy ) .
Therefore , the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving dorzolamide hydrochloride .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C . Developmental toxicity studies with dorzolamide hydrochloride in rabbits at oral doses of ≥ 2 . 5 mg / kg / day revealed malformations of the vertebral bodies .
These malformations occurred at doses that caused metabolic acidosis with decreased body weight gain in dams and decreased fetal weights .
No treatment - related malformations were seen at 1 mg / kg / day .
These doses represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rabbits , 37 and 15 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers In a study of dorzolamide hydrochloride in lactating rats , decreases in body weight gain of 5 to 7 % in offspring at an oral dose of 7 . 5 mg / kg / day were seen during lactation .
A slight delay in postnatal development ( incisor eruption , vaginal canalization and eye openings ) , secondary to lower fetal body weight , was noted .
This dose represents an estimated plasma Cmax level in rats , 52 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from dorzolamide hydrochloride , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of dorzolamide hydrochloride have been demonstrated in pediatric patients in a 3 - month , multicenter , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled trial .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal and Hepatic Impairment Dorzolamide has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
Because dorzolamide and its metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney , dorzolamide hydrochloride is not recommended in such patients .
Dorzolamide has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and should therefore be used with caution in such patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and possible central nervous system effects may occur .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
11 DESCRIPTION Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor formulated for topical ophthalmic use .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is described chemically as : ( 4 S - trans ) - 4 - ( ethylamino ) - 5 , 6 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 4 H - thieno [ 2 , 3 - b ] thiopyran - 2 - sulfonamide 7 , 7 - dioxide monohydrochloride .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is optically active .
The specific rotation is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C10H16N2O4S3 • HCl and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dorzolamide hydrochloride has a molecular weight of 360 . 9 and a melting point of about 264 ° C .
It is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , which is soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol and ethanol .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , slightly viscous , aqueous solution of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
The pH of the solution is approximately 5 . 6 , and the osmolarity is 260 - 330 mOsM .
Each mL of Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 2 % contains 20 mg dorzolamide ( 22 . 3 mg of dorzolamide hydrochloride ) .
Inactive ingredients are hydroxyethyl cellulose , mannitol , sodium citrate dehydrate , sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) and purified water .
Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 0075 % is added as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carbonic anhydrase ( CA ) is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body including the eye .
It catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In humans , carbonic anhydrase exists as a number of isoenzymes , the most active being carbonic anhydrase II ( CA - II ) , found primarily in red blood cells ( RBCs ) , but also in other tissues .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor secretion , presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport .
The result is a reduction in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution contains dorzolamide hydrochloride , an inhibitor of human carbonic anhydrase II .
Following topical ocular administration , dorzolamide hydrochloride reduces elevated intraocular pressure .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics When topically applied , dorzolamide reaches the systemic circulation .
To assess the potential for systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibition following topical administration , drug and metabolite concentrations in RBCs and plasma and carbonic anhydrase inhibition in RBCs were measured .
Dorzolamide accumulates in RBCs during chronic dosing as a result of binding to CA - II .
The parent drug forms a single N - desethyl metabolite , which inhibits CA - II less potently than the parent drug but also inhibits CA - I .
The metabolite also accumulates in RBCs where it binds primarily to CA - I .
Plasma concentrations of dorzolamide and metabolite are generally below the assay limit of quantitation ( 15 nM ) .
Dorzolamide binds moderately to plasma proteins ( approximately 33 % ) .
Dorzolamide is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine ; the metabolite also is excreted in urine .
After dosing is stopped , dorzolamide washes out of RBCs nonlinearly , resulting in a rapid decline of drug concentration initially , followed by a slower elimination phase with a half - life of about four months .
To simulate the systemic exposure after long - term topical ocular administration , dorzolamide was given orally to eight healthy subjects for up to 20 weeks .
The oral dose of 2 mg twice daily closely approximates the amount of drug delivered by topical ocular administration of dorzolamide 2 % three times daily .
Steady state was reached within 8 weeks .
The inhibition of CA - II and total carbonic anhydrase activities was below the degree of inhibition anticipated to be necessary for a pharmacological effect on renal function and respiration in healthy individuals .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year study of dorzolamide hydrochloride administered orally to male and female Sprague - Dawley rats , urinary bladder papillomas were seen in male rats in the highest dosage group of 20 mg / kg / day .
Papillomas were not seen in rats given oral doses of 1 mg / kg / day .
These doses represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rats , 138 and 7 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively No treatment - related tumors were seen in a 21 - month study in female and male mice given oral doses up to 75 mg / kg / day .
This dose represents an estimated plasma Cmax level in mice , 582 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
The increased incidence of urinary bladder papillomas seen in the high - dose male rats is a class - effect of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors in rats .
Rats are particularly prone to developing papillomas in response to foreign bodies , compounds causing crystalluria , and diverse sodium salts .
No changes in bladder urothelium were seen in dogs given oral dorzolamide hydrochloride for one year at 2 mg / kg / day or monkeys dosed topically to the eye for one year .
An oral dose of 2 mg / kg / day in dogs represents an estimated plasma Cmax level , 137 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration .
The topical ophthalmic dose in monkeys was approximately equivalent to the human topical ophthalmic dose .
The following tests for mutagenic potential were negative : ( 1 ) in vivo ( mouse ) cytogenetic assay ; ( 2 ) in vitro chromosomal aberration assay ; ( 3 ) alkaline elution assay ; ( 4 ) V - 79 assay ; and ( 5 ) Ames test .
In reproduction studies of dorzolamide hydrochloride in rats , there were no adverse effects on the reproductive capacity of males or females at doses of 15 and 7 . 5 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses represent estimated plasma Cmax levels in rats , 104 and 52 times higher than the lower limit of detection in human plasma following ocular administration , respectively .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of dorzolamide hydrochloride was demonstrated in clinical studies in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension ( baseline IOP ≥ 23 mmHg ) .
The IOP - lowering effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride was approximately 3 to 5 mmHg throughout the day and this was consistent in clinical studies of up to one year duration .
The efficacy of dorzolamide hydrochloride when dosed less frequently than three times a day ( alone or in combination with other products ) has not been established .
In a one year clinical study , the effect of dorzolamide hydrochloride 2 % three times daily on the corneal endothelium was compared to that of betaxolol ophthalmic solution twice daily and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % twice daily .
There were no statistically significant differences between groups in corneal endothelial cell counts or in corneal thickness measurements .
There was a mean loss of approximately 4 % in the endothelial cell counts for each group over the one year period .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 1246 NDC : 50090 - 1246 - 0 10 mL in a BOTTLE / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
17 . 1 Sulfonamide Reactions Dorzolamide hydrochloride is a sulfonamide and although administered topically is absorbed systemically .
Therefore the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration .
Advise patients that if serious or unusual reactions including severe skin reactions or signs of hypersensitivity occur , they should discontinue the use of the product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Intercurrent Ocular Conditions Advise patients that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
17 . 3 Handling Ophthalmic Solutions Instruct patients that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
17 . 4 Concomitant Topical Ocular Therapy If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
17 . 5 Contact Lens Use Advise patients that dorzolamide hydrochloride contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of the solution .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following dorzolamide hydrochloride administration .
17 . 6 Patient Instructions Advise patients that if they develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and lid reactions , they should discontinue use and seek their physician ' s advice .
Instruct patients to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Rx only Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Rev . 232 : 04 3 / 14 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 2 % Before using your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution Before using your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution for the first time , make sure the safety seal around the tip cap is unbroken .
Step 1 .
Wash your hands .
Step 2 .
Tear off the safety seal .
Step 3 .
To open the bottle , unscrew the cap by turning counterclockwise .
Giving your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution drops Giving your Dozolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Drops Step 4 .
Tilt your head back and pull your lower eyelid down slightly to form a pocket between your eyelid and your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Invert the bottle , and press lightly with the thumb or index finger until a single drop is dispensed into the eye as directed by your doctor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] DO NOT TOUCH YOUR EYES OR EYE LIDS WITH THE DROPPER TIP .
Step 6 .
If your doctor has told you to use Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution drops in both eyes , repeat Steps 4 and 5 .
After using your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution Step 7 .
Replace the cap by turning until it is firmly touching the bottle .
Do not overtighten the cap .
Step 8 .
The dispenser tip is designed to provide a single drop ; therefore , do NOT enlarge the hole of the dispenser tip .
After you have used all doses , there will be some Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution left in the bottle .
Do not try to remove the extra medicine from the Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution bottle .
Throw away your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution bottle in your household trash .
How should I store Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution ?
• 1 .
Store Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to • 25 ° C ) • 2 .
Protect from light • 3 .
Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
KEEP DORZOLAMIDE HYDROCHLORIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION AND ALL MEDICINES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Important information about using Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution • 1 .
If you have any eye or skin reactions , especially conjunctivitis or eyelid reactions to Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , stop using it and call your doctor right away .
• 2 .
If you have eye surgery or have a problem such as trauma or infection of your eye while using Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , call your doctor right away .
• 3 .
If you do not handle eye medicines the right way the medicine can become contaminated .
If the tip of the dispenser touches your eye or areas around your eye , the tip can become contaminated with bacteria which can cause an eye infection and other serious problems including loss of eyesight .
• 4 .
If you use other eye medicines dropped onto the eye like Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , use the medicines at least 5 minutes before or after you use Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution .
• 5 .
Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
If you wear contact lenses , remove them before you use your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution .
You can place your contact lenses back into your eyes 15 minutes after using your Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Rev . 232 : 04 3 / 14 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dorzolamide Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
