menthol salicylic acid panthenol Water Alcohol Glycerin PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil Tromethamine Carbomer Trideceth - 10 Fragrance Butylene Glycol 1 , 2 - Hexanediol Caprylyl Glycol Brassica Oleracea Italica ( Broccoli ) Extract Illicium Verum ( Anise ) Fruit Extract Sodium Hyaluronate Geraniol Linalool Citronellol Hexyl Cinnamal Limonene Helps relieve and revitalizing scalp .
keep out of reach of the children After shampooing and before drying , apply an appropriate am ount to the scalp in a wet state using your fingers and massage so that it is fully absorbed .
It ries commended to use it at least 3 times a week .
1 .
If you have any of the following side effetsc while using , you should stop using , iatnd if you continue to use , iytour sympt oms will worsen , so consult your dermatologist .
- If there are side effects such as red spots , swelling , itching , irrita tion during use .
- If the application area has the above side efftesc due to direct sunlight 2 .
Do not use on areas with wounds , eczema or dermatitis .
3 .
Precautions for stoarge and handling - Be sure to close the cap taefr use .
- Do not store where children may reach .
- Store in a place with high or low tempaeturre and out of dire ct sunlight .
4 .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse immediately and consult a physician .
5 .
People who have ever had allergies , please consult your dotc or or pharmacist before use 6 .
Do not use on children under 3 years ogfe a . 7 .
People with hypersensitivity to salicylic acid or who hasa bdei tes , blood circulation disorders , renala filure , infection , redness , those who are pregnant or may become pregnant should av oid using the pdrouct as the current symptoms may worsen a fter use , such as skin or body hypersensitivity or skin adverse reatcions ( edema , inflammation , etc . ) .
So please avoid using it .
- Product Liability Act ( PL Act ) : Before use , be sure to read the instructions for use and precautions .
for external use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
