Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 4 . 0 % , Oxybenzone 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only FLAMMABLE • do not use near heat , flame or while smoking • avoid long term storage above 104 deg F ( 40 degC ) Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• Do not store at temperatures above 120 deg F . Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Hold can 4 - 6 inches away form body , spray evenly to ensure complete coverage • Do not spray into face .
Spray into hand and apply to face .
• Use in well ventilated , but not windy areas • Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immdiately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease theis risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Alcohol denat .
( 73 . 2 % v / v ) , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , stearoxytrimethylsilane , glycerin , diethylhexyl syringylidene malonate , tocopherol ( vitamin E ) , fragrance , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A palmitate ) , caprylic / capric triglyceride Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain or damage some fabrics , materials or surfaces [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
