WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH OPIOIDS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death ( see WARNINGS ; PRECAUTIONS , Clinically Significant Drug Interactions ) .
• Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
• Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
• Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
DESCRIPTION Lorazepam , an antianxiety agent , has the chemical formula , 7 - chloro - 5 - ( o - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a nearly white powder almost insoluble in water .
Each Lorazepam tablet , to be taken orally , contains 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , or 2 mg of lorazepam .
The inactive ingredients present are lactose anhydrous , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Studies in healthy volunteers show that in single high doses lorazepam has a tranquilizing action on the central nervous system with no appreciable effect on the respiratory or cardiovascular systems .
Lorazepam is readily absorbed with an absolute bioavailability of 90 percent .
Peak concentrations in plasma occur approximately 2 hours following administration .
The peak plasma level of lorazepam from a 2 mg dose is approximately 20 ng / mL .
The mean half - life of unconjugated lorazepam in human plasma is about 12 hours and for its major metabolite , lorazepam glucuronide , about 18 hours .
At clinically relevant concentrations , lorazepam is approximately 85 % bound to plasma proteins .
Lorazepam is rapidly conjugated at its 3 - hydroxy group into lorazepam glucuronide which is then excreted in the urine .
Lorazepam glucuronide has no demonstrable CNS activity in animals .
The plasma levels of lorazepam are proportional to the dose given .
There is no evidence of accumulation of lorazepam on administration up to six months .
Studies comparing young and elderly subjects have shown that advancing age does not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lorazepam .
However , in one study involving single intravenous doses of 1 . 5 to 3 mg of lorazepam injection , mean total body clearance of lorazepam decreased by 20 % in 15 elderly subjects of 60 to 84 years of age compared to that in 15 younger subjects 19 to 38 years of age .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of lorazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with • hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to any components of the formulation .
• acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines , including Lorazepam , and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioids alone .
If a decision is made to prescribe Lorazepam concomitantly with opioids , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use , and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of Lorazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking Lorazepam , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Lorazepam is used with opioids .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see PRECAUTIONS , Clinically Significant Drug Interactions ) .
Pre - existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines including lorazepam .
Lorazepam is not recommended for use in patients with a primary depressive disorder or psychosis .
Use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression .
( See PRECAUTIONS Clinically Significant Drug Interactions ) Use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , may lead to physical and psychological dependence .
As with all patients on CNS - depressant drugs , patients receiving lorazepam should be warned not to operate dangerous machinery or motor vehicles and that their tolerance for alcohol and other CNS depressants will be diminished .
Physical and Psychological Dependence The use of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , may lead to physical and psychological dependence .
The risk of dependence increases with higher doses and longer term use and is further increased in patients with a history of alcoholism or drug abuse or in patients with significant personality disorders .
The dependence potential is reduced when lorazepam is used at the appropriate dose for short - term treatment .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving lorazepam or other psychotropic agents .
In general , benzodiazepines should be prescribed for short periods only ( e . g . 2 to 4 weeks ) .
Extension of the treatment period should not take place without reevaluation of the need for continued therapy .
Continuous long - term use of the product is not recommended .
Withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . rebound insomnia ) can appear following cessation of recommended doses after as little as one week of therapy .
Abrupt discontinuation of product should be avoided and a gradual dosage - tapering schedule followed after extended therapy .
Abrupt termination of treatment may be accompanied by withdrawal symptoms .
Symptoms reported following discontinuation of benzodiazepines include headache , anxiety , tension , depression , insomnia , restlessness , confusion , irritability , sweating , rebound phenomena , dysphoria , dizziness , derealization , depersonalization , hyperacusis , numbness / tingling of extremities , hypersensitivity to light , noise , and physical contact / perceptual changes , involuntary movements , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , loss of appetite , hallucinations / delirium , convulsions / seizures , tremor , abdominal cramps , myalgia , agitation , palpitations , tachycardia , panic attacks , vertigo , hyperreflexia , short - term memory loss , and hyperthermia .
Convulsions / seizures may be more common in patients with pre - existing seizure disorders or who are taking other drugs that lower the convulsive threshold such as antidepressants .
There is evidence that tolerance develops to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines .
Lorazepam may have abuse potential , especially in patients with a history of drug and / or alcohol abuse .
PRECAUTIONS In patients with depression , a possibility for suicide should be borne in mind ; benzodiazepines should not be used in such patients without adequate anti - depressant therapy .
Lorazepam should be used with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function ( e . g . COPD , sleep apnea syndrome ) .
Elderly or debilitated patients may be more susceptible to the sedative effects of lorazepam .
Therefore , these patients should be monitored frequently and have their dosage adjusted carefully according to patient response ; the initial dosage should not exceed 2 mg .
Paradoxical reactions have been occasionally reported during benzodiazepine use .
Such reactions may be more likely to occur in children and the elderly .
Should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
The usual precautions for treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
As with all benzodiazepines , the use of lorazepam may worsen hepatic encephalopathy ; therefore , lorazepam should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency and / or encephalopathy .
Dosage for patients with severe hepatic insufficiency should be adjusted carefully according to patient response ; lower doses may be sufficient in such patients .
In patients where gastrointestinal or cardiovascular disorders coexist with anxiety , it should be noted that lorazepam has not been shown to be of significant benefit in treating the gastrointestinal or cardiovascular component .
Esophageal dilation occurred in rats treated with lorazepam for more than one year at 6 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose was 1 . 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of 10 mg per day ) .
The effect was reversible only when the treatment was withdrawn within two months of first observation of the phenomenon .
The clinical significance of this is unknown .
However , use of lorazepam for prolonged periods and in geriatric patients requires caution , and there should be frequent monitoring for symptoms of upper G . I . disease .
Safety and effectiveness of lorazepam in children of less than 12 years have not been established .
Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of lorazepam , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
Essential Laboratory Tests Some patients on lorazepam have developed leukopenia , and some have had elevations of LDH .
As with other benzodiazepines , periodic blood counts and liver - function tests are recommended for patients on long - term therapy .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration .
Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors .
When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined , the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid - related respiratory depression exists .
Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids , and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation .
The benzodiazepines , including lorazepam , produce increased CNS - depressant effects when administered with other CNS depressants such as alcohol , barbiturates , antipsychotics , sedative / hypnotics , anxiolytics , antidepressants , narcotic analgesics , sedative antihistamines , anticonvulsants , and anesthetics .
Concomitant use of clozapine and lorazepam may produce marked sedation , excessive salivation , hypotension , ataxia , delirium and respiratory arrest .
Concurrent administration of lorazepam with valproate may result in increased plasma concentrations and reduced clearance of lorazepam .
Lorazepam dosage should be reduced to approximately 50 % when coadministered with valproate .
Concurrent administration of lorazepam with probenecid may result in a more rapid onset or prolonged effect of lorazepam due to increased half - life and decreased total clearance .
Lorazepam dosage needs to be reduced by approximately 50 % when coadministered with probenecid .
The effects of probenecid and valproate on lorazepam may be due to inhibition of glucuronidation .
Administration of theophylline or aminophylline may reduce the sedative effects of benzodiazepines , including lorazepam .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis No evidence of carcinogenic potential emerged in rats during an 18 - month study with lorazepam .
No studies regarding mutagenesis have been performed .
Pregnancy Reproductive studies in animals were performed in mice , rats , and two strains of rabbits .
Occasional anomalies ( reduction of tarsals , tibia , metatarsals , malrotated limbs , gastroschisis , malformed skull , and microphthalmia ) were seen in drug - treated rabbits without relationship to dosage .
Although all of these anomalies were not present in the concurrent control group , they have been reported to occur randomly in historical controls .
At doses of 40 mg / kg and higher , there was evidence of fetal resorption and increased fetal loss in rabbits which was not seen at lower doses .
The clinical significance of the above findings is not known .
However , an increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because the use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , the use of lorazepam during this period should be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant , they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
In humans , blood levels obtained from umbilical cord blood indicate placental transfer or lorazepam and lorazepam glucuronide .
Infants of mothers who ingested benzodiazepines for several weeks or more preceding delivery have been reported to have withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Symptoms such as hypoactivity , hypotonia , hypothermia , respiratory depression , apnea , feeding problems , and impaired metabolic response to cold stress have been reported in neonates born of mothers who have received benzodiazepines during the late phase of pregnancy or at delivery .
Nursing Mothers Lorazepam has been detected in human breast milk ; therefore , it should not be administered to breast - feeding women , unless the expected benefit to the woman outweighs the potential risk to the infant .
Sedation and inability to suckle have occurred in neonates of lactating mothers taking benzodiazepines .
Infants of lactating mothers should be observed for pharmacological effects ( including sedation and irritability ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of lorazepam generally were not adequate to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently than younger subjects ; however , the incidence of sedation and unsteadiness was observed to increase with age ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Age does not appear to have a significant effect on lorazepam kinetics ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Clinical circumstances , some of which may be more common in the elderly , such as hepatic or renal impairment , should be considered .
Greater sensitivity ( e . g . sedation ) of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , and lower doses may be sufficient in these patients ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions to benzodiazepines , including CNS effects and respiratory depression , are dose dependent , with more severe effects occurring with high doses .
In a sample of about 3500 patients treated for anxiety , the most frequent adverse reaction to lorazepam was sedation ( 15 . 9 % ) , followed by dizziness ( 6 . 9 % ) , weakness ( 4 . 2 % ) , and unsteadiness ( 3 . 4 % ) .
The incidence of sedation and unsteadiness increased with age .
Other adverse reactions to benzodiazepines , including lorazepam are fatigue , drowsiness , amnesia , memory impairment , confusion , disorientation , depression , unmasking of depression , disinhibition , euphoria , suicidal ideation / attempt , ataxia , asthenia , extrapyramidal symptoms , convulsions / seizures , tremor , vertigo , eye - function / visual disturbance ( including diplopia and blurred vision ) , dysarthria , slurred speech , change in libido , impotence , decreased orgasm ; headache , coma ; respiratory depression , apnea , worsening of sleep apnea , worsening of obstructive pulmonary disease ; gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea , change in appetite , constipation , jaundice , increase in bilirubin , increase in liver transaminases , increase in alkaline phosphatase ; hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylactic / oid reactions ; dermatological symptoms , allergic skin reactions , alopecia ; SIADH , hyponatremia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , pancytopenia ; hypothermia ; and autonomic manifestations .
Paradoxical reactions , including anxiety , excitation , agitation , hostility , aggression , rage , sleep disturbances / insomnia , sexual arousal , and hallucinations may occur .
Small decreases in blood pressure and hypotension may occur but are usually not clinically significant , probably being related to the relief of anxiety produced by lorazepam .
CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR MEDICAL ADVICE ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
YOU MAY REPORT SIDE EFFECTS TO THE FDA AT Phone # 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 OR LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 1 - 844 - 740 - 7500 .
OVERDOSAGE In postmarketing experience , overdose with lorazepam has occurred predominantly in combination with alcohol and / or other drugs .
Therefore , in the management of overdosage , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
Symptoms Overdosage of benzodiazepines is usually manifested by varying degrees of central nervous system depression ranging from drowsiness to coma .
In mild cases , symptoms include drowsiness , mental confusion , paradoxical reactions , dysarthria and lethargy .
In more serious cases , and especially when other drugs or alcohol were ingested , symptoms may include ataxia , hypotonia , hypotension , cardiovascular depression , respiratory depression , hypnotic state , coma , and death .
Management General supportive and symptomatic measures are recommended ; vital signs must be monitored and the patient closely observed .
When there is a risk of aspiration , induction of emesis is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic patients .
Administration of activated charcoal may also limit drug absorption .
Hypotension , though unlikely , usually may be controlled with norepinephrine bitartrate injection .
Lorazepam is poorly dialyzable .
Lorazepam glucuronide , the inactive metabolite , may be highly dialyzable .
The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil may be used in hospitalized patients as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including Contraindications , Warnings , and Precautions should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam is administered orally .
For optimal results , dose , frequency of administration , and duration of therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
To facilitate this , 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , and 2 mg tablets are available .
The usual range is 2 to 6 mg / day given in divided doses , the largest dose being taken before bedtime , but the daily dosage may vary from 1 to 10 mg / day .
For anxiety , most patients require an initial dose of 2 to 3 mg / day given two times a day or three times a day .
For insomnia due to anxiety or transient situational stress , a single daily dose of 2 to 4 mg may be given , usually at bedtime .
For elderly or debilitated patients , an initial dosage of 1 to 2 mg / day in divided doses is recommended , to be adjusted as needed and tolerated .
The dosage of lorazepam should be increased gradually when needed to help avoid adverse effects .
When higher dosage is indicated , the evening dose should be increased before the daytime doses .
HOW SUPPLIED Lorazepam Tablets , USP are available in the following dosage strengths : 0 . 5 mg white , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ EP 904 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC # 0904 - 6007 - 60 Bottles of 500 Tablets NDC # 0904 - 6007 - 40 Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) NDC 0904 - 6007 - 61 1 mg white , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ EP 905 ” and scored on one side and " 1 " on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC # 0904 - 6008 - 60 Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) NDC 0904 - 6008 - 61 2 mg white , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ EP 906 ” and scored on one side and " 2 " on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 Tablets NDC # 0904 - 6009 - 60 Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) NDC 0904 - 6009 - 61 BOTTLES : Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , using a child - resistant closure .
Keep this and all Medications out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS 17177 N Laurel Park Dr . , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 Rev . 03 05 / 18 MEDICATION GUIDE Lorazepam Tablets , C - IV ( lor az ' e pam ) What is the most important information I should know about Lorazepam ?
• Lorazepam is a benzodiazepine medicine .
Taking benzodiazepines with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
• Lorazepam can make you sleepy or dizzy , and can slow your thinking and motor skills .
• Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how Lorazepam affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking Lorazepam without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , Lorazepam may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
• Do not take more Lorazepam than prescribed .
What is Lorazepam ?
• Lorazepam is a prescription medicine used : • to treat anxiety disorders • for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety that can happen with symptoms of depression • Lorazepam is a federal controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep Lorazepam in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away Lorazepam may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• It is not known if Lorazepam is safe and effective in children less than 12 years of age .
• It is not known if Lorazepam is safe and effective for use for longer than 4 months .
Do not take Lorazepam if you : • are allergic to lorazepam , other benzodiazepines , or any of the ingredients in Lorazepam .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Lorazepam Before you take Lorazepam , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • have lung disease or breathing problems ( such as COPD , sleep apnea syndrome ) • have liver or kidney problems • have or have had seizures • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Lorazepam may harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take Lorazepam while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Lorazepam passes into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take Lorazepam .
You should not breastfeed while taking Lorazepam Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking Lorazepam with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well Lorazepam or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
How should I take Lorazepam ?
• Take Lorazepam exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much Lorazepam to take and when to take it .
• If you take too much Lorazepam , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking Lorazepam ?
• Lorazepam can cause you to be drowsy .
Do not drive a car or operate heavy machinery until you know how Lorazepam affects you .
• You should not drink alcohol while taking Lorazepam .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of Lorazepam ?
Lorazepam may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about Lorazepam ? ”
• Depression .
Pre - existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines including Lorazepam .
• Abuse and dependence .
Taking Lorazepam can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Physical and psychological dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Withdrawal symptoms .
You may have withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking Lorazepam suddenly .
Withdrawal symptoms can be serious and include seizures .
Mild withdrawal symptoms include a depressed mood and trouble sleeping .
Talk to your healthcare provider about slowly stopping Lorazepam to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
The most common side effects of Lorazepam include : • sedation • dizziness • weakness • unsteadiness These are not all the possible side effects of Lorazepam .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 1 - 844 - 740 - 7500 .
How should I store Lorazepam ?
• Store Lorazepam in a tightly closed container at 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted to 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
• Keep Lorazepam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Lorazepam .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Lorazepam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Lorazepam to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Lorazepam that is written for health professionals What are the ingredients in Lorazepam ?
Active ingredient : lorazepam Inactive ingredients : lactose anhydrous , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and polacrilin potassium .
Manufactured by : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS 17177 N Laurel Park Dr . , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 Rev . 00 05 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
