Virasal ( 27 . 5 % Salycylic Acid ) Antiviral Film - Forming Vehicle - Package Insert Text : Rx only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Virasal is a topical preparation containing 27 . 5 % salicylic acid in a proprietary film - forming vehicle that comprises isopropyl alcohol , butyl acetate , polyvinyl butyral , isopropyl metacresol , trimethyl pentanyl diisobutyrate , phenic acid and acrylates copolymer .
The pharmacologic activity of Virasal is generally attributed to the keratolytic activity of salicylic acid which is incorporated into a polyacrylic , film - forming virucidal vehicle designed to cover the wart without the need for a bandage .
The structural formula of salicylic acid is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although the exact mode of action for salicylic acid in the treatment of warts is unknown , its activity appears to be associated with its keratolytic action , which results in mechanical removal of epidermal cells infected with wart viruses .
The virucidal complex incorporated into Virasal ’ s proprietary vehicle is designed to help reduce risk of reinfection at the wart site , as well as prevent viral contamination of the product under normal usage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Virasal is indicated for the topical treatment and removal of common warts and plantar warts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with diabetes or impaired blood circulation should not use Virasal .
Virasal also should not be used on moles , birthmarks , and unusual warts with hair growing from them , or warts on the face .
PRECAUTIONS Virasal is for external use only .
Do not permit Virasal to contact eyes or mucous membranes .
If contact with eyes or mucous membranes occurs , immediately flush with water for 15 minutes .
Virasal should not be allowed to contact normal skin surrounding wart , since localized irritation may occur .
Treatment should be discontinued if excessive irritation occurs .
Virasal is flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Keep bottle tightly capped when not in use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A localized irritant reaction may occur if Virasal is applied to the normal skin surrounding the wart .
Any irritation may normally be controlled by temporarily discontinuing use and by applying the medication only to the wart site when treatment is resumed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to applying Virasal , soak wart in warm water for five minutes .
Remove any loosened tissue by gently rubbing with a brush , wash cloth , or emery board .
Dry wart site thoroughly .
Using the brush applicator supplied , apply Virasal twice to entire wart surface , allowing the first application to dry before applying the second .
Continue treatment once or twice a day as directed by physician .
Be careful not to apply to surrounding skin .
Clinically visible improvement will normally occur during the first or second week of therapy .
Maximum resolution may be expected after four to six weeks of Virasal use .
HOW SUPPLIED Virasal is supplied in 10 ml amber bottles with a brush applicator ( NDC 42783 - 312 - 10 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Elorac , Inc .
Vernon Hills , IL 60061 U . S . Patent Pending Revised 06 / 2011 221619 Virasal ( 27 . 5 % Salycylic Acid ) Antiviral Film - Forming Vehicle - Container Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 312 - 10 Virasal ( 27 . 5 % Salycylic Acid ) Antiviral Film - Forming Vehicle Wart Remover FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR USE IN THE EYES Rx only 1 / 3 fl .
oz ( 10 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Virasal ( 27 . 5 % Salycylic Acid ) Antiviral Film - Forming Vehicle - Carton Label Principal Display Panel Text : NDC 42783 - 312 - 10 Virasal ( 27 . 5 % Salycylic Acid ) Antiviral Film - Forming Vehicle Wart Remover FOR DERMATOLOGICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR USE IN THE EYES Rx only 1 / 3 fl .
oz ( 10 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
