Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purposes Camphor 4 . 8 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus Oil 1 . 2 % Cough suppressant Menthol 2 . 6 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • on chest and throat , for the temporary relief of cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
• cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions See important warnings under " When using this product . "
• adults and children 2 years and over : For cough suppression • rub a thick layer on throat and chest • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor .
For minor aches and pains of muscles and joints • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years : do not use Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , paraffin wax , petrolatum , thymol , turpentine oil Manufactured by : DLC Laboratories Paramount , CA 90723 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 . 7 g Jar Carton FOR ADULTS & CHILDREN MEDICATED CHEST RUB Triple Action Relief VAPOREX ® • OINTMENT • NO ARTIFICIAL COLORS OR FRAGRANCES COUGH SUPPRESSANT TOPICAL ANALGESIC NET WT 2 . 0 OZ ( 56 . 7 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
