This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 2 % ( w / w ) • Glycerin • Phenoxyethanol • Water • Benzoic Acid • Etidronate Tetrasodium • Peg - 7 Glyceryl Cocoate • Polysorbate 20 • Melaleuca Alternifolia Leaf • Ethylhexylglycerin • Cocamidopropyl Betaine • Anhydrous Citric Acid • Dehydroacetic Acid The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 2 % w / w .
Purpose : Antibacterial Purpose Antiseptic , Antibacterial , Hand Sanitizer Use It is an ideal product that provides fast cleaning for your skin with its ready - to - use structure .
You can easily use it at home , outside , in car and during travel .
User group personal and general use .
Warnings For external use only .
Before using , certainly read the label and the instructions .
Do not use • on open skin wounds When using this product Keep out of reach of children , food and animal feeds .
Do not eat , dirnk and smoking .
Follow use instructions to prevent risks on human and environmental health . If contact the skin : This product is produced to contact the skin .
Wash the excess with water .
In case of redness , swelling , itching or burning occurs , get medical help . In case of eye contact : wash the eyes with the clean water at least 15 minutes with the eyes cover open .
If swallowed shake the mouth with water .
Do not induce vomiting .
Immediately apply to the doctor and show him the label of the product .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use wipes as much as needed , used by wiping the hands , between the fingers , all internal and external surfaces , and under the nails .
Do not rinse after use .
Other information Store below 30 C ( 86 F Inactive ingredients Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Water , Benzoic Acid , Tetrasodium EDTA , Peg - 7 Glyceryl Cocoate , Polysorbate 20 , Melaleuca Alternifolia Leaf Extract , Parfum , Ethylhexylglycerin , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Citric Acid , Dehydroacetic Acid Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
