This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Hydrogen peroxide • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Liquid hand disinfectant to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds Avoid direct contact with eyes .
Highly flammable liquid and vapour .
Keep away from heat , hot surfaces , sparks , open flames and other ignition sources .
No smoking .
Keep container tightly closed .
Use only non - sparking tools .
Store in a well ventilated place .
Keep cool .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply a small amount of the liquid on the palm of your hand and rub your hands until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store below 86 F ( 30 C ) .
Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel 100 mL NDC : 86818 - 003 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 250 ml NDC 86818 - 003 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 ml NDC 86818 - 003 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 ml NDC 86818 - 003 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
