This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer kills harmful bacteria or germs .
Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire , open flame or other sources of heat .
Do not use • in children less than 2 years of age For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
When using this product , avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
If irritation develops , discontinue use and consult health care professional .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Occassional use only .
Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds and allow to dry .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel 4 L NDC : 77427 - 7427 - 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
