[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne treatment Use for the management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 uses .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients water , dimethicone , cyclopentasiloxane , glycereth - 26 , glycerin , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG - 80 sorbitan laurate , dimethiconol , polyacrylate - 13 , panthenol , phenoxyethanol , fragrance , polyisobutene , caprylyl glycol , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , hexylene glycol , ethylhexylglycerin , bisabolol , lactic acid , polysorbate 20 , ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate , butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane , PPG - 26 - buteth - 26 , PEG - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , ethylhexyl salicylate , camellia sinensis leaf extract Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 Distributed by Alchemee LLC Santa Monica , CA 90401 Made in the USA of Foreign and Domestic Components Questions ?
1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 • proactiv . com Proactiv is a registered trademark of Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Tube Box proactiv ® BLACKHEAD DISSOLVING GEL 1 FL .
OZ .
30 mL salicylic acid acne medication [ MULTIMEDIA ]
