Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 75 % Purpose Antiseptic USE • to decrease bacteria on the skin that could cause disease • recommended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable . Keep away from heat and flame .
When using this product • Keep out of eyes . In case of contact with eyes ， flush thoroughly with water • avoid contact with broken skin • do not inhale or ingest .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation or redness develops • condition persists for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • not recommended for infants .
Other information • do not store above 105 ° F • may discolor some fabrics • harmful to wood finishes and plastics .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Hydrogen Peroxide Kills 99 . 9 % of Germs BIODEGRADABLE ALCOHOL with Moisturizer Effective Sanitizer also for Surfaces and Belongings ANTIMICROBIAL • ASTM E2315 - 16 • TESTED Directions of Use : 1 .
Remove the shrink wrap and open lid .
2 .
Pull out wipes frim center of the roll .
3 .
Close lid to retain moisture .
ASTM ( American Society for Testing and Materials ) E2315 is a standard for assessment of antimicrobial activity using a Time - Kill procedure .
Please refer to www . astm . org for more details .
Procuro ® is a registered trademark of Pharmapack Ltd , Hong Kong .
For enquiries , please send to info @ procuro - hg . com PROCURO TM provides a range of cleansing and sanitizing products .
Check www .
procuro - hg .
com for more details .
Manufactured for Pharmapack Ltd by Dongguan Pharmapack Fulibao Personal Care Products Co . Ltd , a subsidiary of Vemedia Shine ( Shanghai ) Ltd and a member company of the Shine Pharma Group ( Hong Kong ) .
Made in P . R . C for Pharmapack Ltd , Hong Kong .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
