This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 78 , 5 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Aloe vera leaf juice • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 78 , 5 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use for hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • in the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - irritation and redness develop .
- condition persists for more than 72 hours .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera leaf juice , deionized water , glycerin .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 250 mL NDC : 86807 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
