Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 5 % Dimethicone 17 . 5 % Octinoxate 6 % Octocrylene 2 % Purposes Sunscreen Lip Protectant Sunscreen Sunscreen Uses • temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked lips • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months : ask a doctor Other information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Beeswax , Petrolatum , Hydrogenated Poly ( C6 - 14 Olefin ) , Phenyl Trimethicone , Trimethylpentanediol / Adipic Acid / Glycerin Crosspolymer , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil , Flavor , Polysilicone - 11 , Hydrogenated Polyisobutane , Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil , Ethylene / Propylene / Styrene Copolymer , Sodium Saccharin , Citrus Aurantifolia ( Lime ) Peel Oil , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Butylene / Ethylene / Styrene Copolymer , Pentaerythrityl Tetra - di - t - butyl Hydroxyhydrocinnamate Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 275 - 2718 Contains decolorized Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract Repairs extremely dry , cracked lips 100 % Money Back Guarantee : If you are not fully satisfied with the performance of this product , we will refund 100 % of the purchase price .
For a prompt refund , simply return the unused portion of this product and your receipt to : O ' Keeffe ' s Company .
LIP REPRESENTATIVE PHOTOS : Two week usage period .
Lip balm was applied according to package directions .
Results may vary .
www . OKeeffesCompany . com © 2019 Distributed by : O ' Keeffe ' s Company 2101 E . Kemper Rd .
Cincinnati , OH 45241 Made in USA with Domestic and Imported Materials O ' KEEFFE ' S LIP REPAIR SPF 35 Lip Protectant Sunscreen for extremely dry , cracked lips SOOTHING ALOE BOOST Broad Spectrum SPF 35 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) GUARANTEED RELIEF Net Wt .
0 . 15 oz .
( 4 . 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
