ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Avobenzone 2 . 7 % Homosalate 9 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 9 % PURPOSE SUNSCREEN USES • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun WARNINGS For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
• When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
• Reapply as needed or after towel drying , swimming , or sweating .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : - Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . - Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS WATER , GLYCERIN , OTHER INFORMATION Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ?
Contact our Sun Specialist at 1 - 888 - 367 - 2866 or www . belifusa . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL belif believe in truth The true cream - aqua bomb sunscreen 2 - in - 1 SPF 50 sunscreen and moisturizer ?
Yes !
Hydrates skin with lightweight texture ------------- Yes No white cast or residue ------------- Yes Our belief to deliver your skin with explosive hydration and UVA / UVB protection .
This moisturizing sunscreeen keeps your skin ' s moisture barrier replenished , provides SPF 50 , and leaves no white cast or greasiness after application .
Also , this product is formulated with a washable formula to provide easy removal when washing the face with a cleanser .
Broad Spectru SPF 50 Dermatologically tested With Napiers original formula 50 ml / 1 . 69 fl .
oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
