1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
• Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 ) • Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids , and must not be chewed , divided , or crushed .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets may be administered with or without food .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids , and must not be chewed , divided , or crushed .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets may be administered with or without food .
( 2 ) • Adults : Start with 5 mg or 10 mg , once daily at approximately the same time every day .
Dose should not exceed 30 mg per day .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients ( 6 years of age or older ) : Start with 5 mg , once daily at approximately the same time every day .
Dose should not exceed 20 mg per day .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets is 5 or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day .
Dosage may be adjusted in 5 - mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability ( up to a maximum of 30 mg / day ) .
In general , dosage adjustment may proceed at approximately weekly intervals .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients Aged 6 Years of Age and Older The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets is 5 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day .
Dosage may be adjusted in 5 - mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability ( up to a maximum of 20 mg / day ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are available as 5 , 10 and 15 mg tablets for oral use : 5 mg : White , round , biconvex tablet with " 270 " printed on one side and " KU " printed on the other side with black ink .
10 mg : White , round , biconvex tablet with " 271 " printed on one side and " KU " printed on the other side with black ink .
15 mg : White , round , biconvex tablet with " 272 " printed on one side and " KU " printed on the other side with black ink .
Extended release tablets 5 mg , 10 mg and 15 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions , uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product .
There have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and angioedema .
• Urinary retention ( 4 ) • Gastric Retention ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled narrow angle glaucoma ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , oxybutynin or any component of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Angioedema : Angioedema has been reported with oxybutynin .
If symptoms of angioedema occur , discontinue Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) effects : CNS effects have been reported with oxybutynin .
If patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , consider dose adjustment or discontinuation of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
( 5 . 2 ) • Use with caution due to aggravation of symptoms : • Pre - existing dementia in patients treated with cholinesterase inhibitors ( 5 . 2 ) , • Parkinson ' s disease ( 5 . 2 ) , • Myasthenia gravis ( 5 . 3 ) , and • Decreased gastrointestinal motility in patients with autonomic neuropathy .
( 5 . 4 ) • Urinary Retention : Use with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention ( 5 . 5 ) • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions : Use with caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility due to risk of gastric retention .
Use with caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux or in patients concurrently taking drugs that can exacerbate esophagitis .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Angioedema Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue and / or larynx has been reported with oxybutynin .
In some cases , angioedema occurred after the first dose .
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life - threatening .
If involvement of the tongue , hypopharynx , or larynx occurs , oxybutynin should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided .
5 . 2 Central Nervous System Effects Oxybutynin is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including hallucinations , agitation , confusion and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly in the first few months after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets affect them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with preexisting dementia treated with cholinesterase inhibitors due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with Parkinson ' s disease due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
5 . 3 Worsening of Symptoms of Myasthenia Gravis Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
5 . 4 Worsening of Symptoms of Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility in Patients with Autonomic Neuropathy Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients with autonomic neuropathy due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms of decreased gastrointestinal motility .
5 . 5 Urinary Retention Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis and intestinal atony .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
As with any other nondeformable material , caution should be used when administering Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets to patients with preexisting severe gastrointestinal narrowing ( pathologic or iatrogenic ) .
There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of other drugs in nondeformable controlled - release formulations .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common ( incidence ≥ 5 % ) adverse reactions were dry mouth , constipation , diarrhea , headache , somnolence , and dizziness .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lannett Company , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 834 - 0530 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety and efficacy of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets ( 5 to 30 mg / day ) was evaluated in 774 adult subjects who participated in five double - blind , controlled clinical trials .
In four of the five studies , Oxybutynin chloride IR ( 5 to 20 mg / day in 199 subjects ) was an active comparator .
Adverse reactions reported by ≥ 1 % of subjects are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by ≥ 1 % of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets - treated Adult Subjects in Five Double - blind , Controlled Clinical Trials of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets System / Organ Class Preferred Term Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 to 30 mg / day n = 774 % Oxybutynin chloride IR * 5 to 20 mg / day n = 199 % Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 3 . 0 5 . 5 Nervous System Disorders Headache 7 . 5 8 . 0 Somnolence 5 . 6 14 . 1 Dizziness 5 . 0 16 . 6 Dysgeusia 1 . 6 1 . 5 Eye Disorders Vision blurred 4 . 3 9 . 6 Dry eye 3 . 1 2 . 5 Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 1 . 9 3 . 0 Oropharyngeal pain 1 . 9 1 . 5 Dry throat 1 . 7 2 . 5 Nasal dryness 1 . 7 4 . 5 Gastrointestinal Disorders Dry mouth 34 . 9 72 . 4 Constipation 8 . 7 15 . 1 Diarrhea 7 . 9 6 . 5 Dyspepsia 4 . 5 6 . 0 Nausea 4 . 5 11 . 6 Abdominal pain 1 . 6 2 . 0 Vomiting 1 . 3 1 . 5 Flatulence 1 . 2 2 . 5 Gastro - esophageal reflux disease 1 . 0 0 . 5 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Dry skin 1 . 8 2 . 5 Pruritus 1 . 3 1 . 5 Renal and Urinary Disorders Dysuria 1 . 9 2 . 0 Urinary hesitation 1 . 9 8 . 5 Urinary retention 1 . 2 3 . 0 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 . 6 3 . 0 Investigations Residual urine volume † 2 . 3 3 . 5 * IR = immediate release † The bundled term residual urine volume consists of the preferred terms residual urine volume and residual urine volume increased .
The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 4 . 4 % with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets compared to 0 % with Oxybutynin chloride IR .
The most frequent adverse reaction causing discontinuation of study medication was dry mouth ( 0 . 7 % ) .
The following adverse reactions were reported by < 1 % of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets - treated patients and at a higher incidence than placebo in clinical trials : Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : anorexia , fluid retention ; Vascular disorders : hot flush ; Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dysphonia ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : dysphagia , frequent bowel movements ; General disorders and administration site conditions : chest discomfort , thirst .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and Infestations : Urinary tract infection ; Psychiatric Disorders : psychotic disorder , agitation , confusional state , hallucinations , memory impairment , abnormal behavior ; Nervous System Disorders : convulsions ; Eye Disorders : glaucoma ; Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : nasal congestion ; Cardiac Disorders : arrhythmia , tachycardia , palpitations , QT interval prolongation ; Vascular Disorders : flushing , hypertension ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : rash ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : impotence ; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema with airway obstruction , urticaria , and face edema ; anaphylactic reactions requiring hospitalization for emergency treatment ; Injury , poisoning and procedural complications : fall .
Additional adverse events reported with some other oxybutynin chloride formulations include : cycloplegia , mydriasis , and suppression of lactation .
In one reported case , concomitant use of oxybutynin with carbamazepine and dantrolene was associated with adverse events of vomiting , drowsiness , confusion , unsteadiness , slurred speech and nystagmus , suggestive of carbamazepine toxicity .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth , constipation , somnolence ( drowsiness ) , and / or other anticholinergic - like effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
This may be of concern for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
Anticholinergic agents may also antagonize the effects of prokinetic agents , such as metoclopramide .
Mean oxybutynin plasma concentrations were approximately 2 fold higher when Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were administered with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , itraconazole and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) , may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters ( i . e . , C max and AUC ) .
The clinical relevance of such potential interactions is not known .
Caution should be used when such drugs are co - administered .
• Co - administration with other anticholinergic drugs may increase the frequency and / or severity of anticholinergic - like effects .
( 7 ) • Co - administration with strong cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole ) increases the systemic exposure of oxybutynin .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole without chewing , dividing or crushing , or in children under the age of 6 years .
( 8 . 4 ) • Renal or Hepatic Impairment : There have been no studies conducted in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of oxybutynin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were studied in 60 children in a 24 - week , open - label , non - randomized trial .
Patients were aged 6 to 15 years , all had symptoms of detrusor overactivity in association with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) , all used clean intermittent catheterization , and all were current users of oxybutynin chloride .
Study results demonstrated that administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 to 20 mg / day was associated with an increase from baseline in mean urine volume per catheterization from 108 mL to 136 mL , an increase from baseline in mean urine volume after morning awakening from 148 mL to 189 mL , and an increase from baseline in the mean percentage of catheterizations without a leaking episode from 34 % to 51 % .
Urodynamic results were consistent with clinical results .
Administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets resulted in an increase from baseline in mean maximum cystometric capacity from 185 mL to 254 mL , a decrease from baseline in mean detrusor pressure at maximum cystometric capacity from 44 cm H 2 O to 33 cm H 2 O , and a reduction in the percentage of patients demonstrating uninhibited detrusor contractions ( of at least 15 cm H 2 O ) from 60 % to 28 % .
The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in these patients were consistent with those reported for adults [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole without chewing , dividing , or crushing , or in children under the age of 6 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The rate and severity of anticholinergic effects reported by patients less than 65 years old and those 65 years and older were similar .
The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were similar in all patients studied ( up to 78 years of age ) .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment There were no studies conducted with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in patients with renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment There were no studies conducted with Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE The continuous release of oxybutynin from Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be considered in the treatment of overdosage .
Patients should be monitored for at least 24 hours .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
A cathartic may be administered .
Overdosage with oxybutynin chloride has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 - year - old boy who experienced memory loss , and a 34 - year - old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients fully recovered with symptomatic treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , USP are an antispasmodic , muscarinic antagonist .
Each Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablet contains 5 mg , 10 mg , or 15 mg of oxybutynin chloride USP , formulated as a once - a - day controlled - release tablet for oral administration .
Oxybutynin chloride is administered as a racemate of R - and S - enantiomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - diethylamino - 2 - butynyl phenylcyclohexylglycolate hydrochloride .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin chloride is C 22 H 31 NO 3 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 393 . 9 .
It is readily soluble in water and acids , but relatively insoluble in alkalis .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets also contain the following inert ingredients : black iron oxide , cellulose acetate , colloidal silicon dioxide , dextrose , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] System Components and Performance Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets use osmotic pressure to deliver oxybutynin chloride at a controlled rate over approximately 24 hours .
The system , which resembles a conventional tablet in appearance , comprises an osmotically active core surrounded by a semipermeable membrane .
The unitary tablet core is composed of the drug and excipients ( including the osmotically active components ) .
There is a precision - laser drilled orifice in the semipermeable membrane on the side of the tablet .
In an aqueous environment , such as the gastrointestinal tract , water permeates through the membrane into the tablet core , causing the drug to go into suspension and the osmotic components to expand .
This expansion pushes the drug out through the orifice .
The semipermeable membrane controls the rate at which water permeates into the tablet core , which in turn controls the rate of drug delivery .
The controlled rate of drug delivery into the gastrointestinal lumen is thus independent of pH or gastrointestinal motility .
The function of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets depends on the existence of an osmotic gradient between the contents of the core and the fluid in the gastrointestinal tract .
Since the osmotic gradient remains constant , drug delivery remains essentially constant .
The biologically inert components of the tablet remain intact during gastrointestinal transit and are eliminated in the feces as an insoluble shell .
USP Drug Release Test 3 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Oxybutynin relaxes bladder smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin chloride exerts a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle .
No blocking effects occur at skeletal neuromuscular junctions or autonomic ganglia ( antinicotinic effects ) .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly in the R - isomer .
A metabolite , desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary bladder contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases bladder ( vesical ) capacity , diminishes the frequency of uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle , and delays the initial desire to void .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following the first dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , oxybutynin plasma concentrations rise for 4 to 6 hours ; thereafter steady concentrations are maintained for up to 24 hours , minimizing fluctuations between peak and trough concentrations associated with oxybutynin .
The relative bioavailabilities of R - and S - oxybutynin from Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are 156 % and 187 % , respectively , compared with oxybutynin .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters for R - and S - oxybutynin are summarized in Table 2 .
The plasma concentration - time profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 1 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin .
Table 2 : Mean ( SD ) R - and S - Oxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single Dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg ( n = 43 ) Parameters ( units ) R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin C max ( ng / mL ) 1 . 0 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 8 ( 1 . 0 ) T max ( h ) 12 . 7 ( 5 . 4 ) 11 . 8 ( 5 . 3 ) t 1 / 2 ( h ) 13 . 2 ( 6 . 2 ) 12 . 4 ( 6 . 1 ) AUC ( 0 – 48 ) ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 18 . 4 ( 10 . 3 ) 34 . 2 ( 16 . 9 ) AUC inf ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 21 . 3 ( 12 . 2 ) 39 . 5 ( 21 . 2 ) Figure 1 : Mean R - oxybutynin plasma concentrations following a single dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg and oxybutynin 5 mg administered every 8 hours ( n = 23 for each treatment ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Steady state oxybutynin plasma concentrations are achieved by Day 3 of repeated Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets dosing , with no observed drug accumulation or change in oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin pharmacokinetic parameters .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets steady state pharmacokinetics were studied in 19 children aged 5 to 15 years with detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
The children were on Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets total daily dose ranging from 5 to 20 mg ( 0 . 10 to 0 . 77 mg / kg ) .
Sparse sampling technique was used to obtain serum samples .
When all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg per day of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , the mean pharmacokinetic parameters derived for R - and S - oxybutynin and R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are summarized in Table 3 .
The plasma - time concentration profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 2 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin when all available data are normalized to an equivalent of 5 mg per day .
Table 3 : Mean ± SD R - and S - Oxybutynin and R - and S - Desethyloxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Children Aged 5 to 15 Following Administration of 5 to 20 mg Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets Once Daily ( n = 19 ) , All Available Data Normalized to an Equivalent of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 mg Once Daily R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin R - Desethyloxybutynin S - Desethyloxybutynin C max ( ng / mL ) 0 . 7 ± 0 . 4 1 . 3 ± 0 . 8 7 . 8 ± 3 . 7 4 . 2 ± 2 . 3 T max ( h ) 5 . 0 5 . 0 5 . 0 5 . 0 AUC ( ng ∙ h / mL ) 12 . 8 ± 7 . 0 23 . 7 ± 14 . 4 125 . 1 ± 66 . 7 73 . 6 ± 47 . 7 Figure 2 : Mean steady state ( ± SD ) R - oxybutynin plasma concentrations following administration of 5 to 20 mg Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets once daily in children aged 5 to 15 .
Plot represents all available data normalized to an equivalent of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 5 mg once daily .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effects The rate and extent of absorption and metabolism of oxybutynin are similar under fed and fasted conditions .
Distribution Oxybutynin is widely distributed in body tissues following systemic absorption .
The volume of distribution is 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Both enantiomers of oxybutynin are highly bound ( > 99 % ) to plasma proteins .
Both enantiomers of N - desethyloxybutynin are also highly bound ( > 97 % ) to plasma proteins .
The major binding protein is alpha - 1 acid glycoprotein .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Its metabolic products include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and desethyloxybutynin , which is pharmacologically active .
Following Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets administration , plasma concentrations of R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are 73 % and 92 % , respectively , of concentrations observed with oxybutynin .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Also , less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite desethyloxybutynin .
Dose Proportionality Pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin ( C max and AUC ) following administration of 5 to 20 mg of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are dose proportional .
Use in Specific Populations Pediatric The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were evaluated in 19 children aged 5 to 15 years with detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) .
The pharmacokinetics of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in these pediatric patients were consistent with those reported for adults ( see Tables 2 and 3 , and Figures 1 and 2 above ) .
Gender There are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin in healthy male and female volunteers following administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
Race Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on race in healthy volunteers following administration of Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 , and 160 mg / kg / day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 , and 50 times the maximum human exposure , based on a human equivalent dose taking into account normalization of body surface area .
Mutagenesis Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Impairment of Fertility No impairment of fertility was seen in rats at dosages up to 75 mg / kg / day ( 24 times the MRHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) when administered for 2 weeks prior to mating in females and for 9 weeks prior to mating in males .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were evaluated for the treatment of patients with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency in three controlled efficacy studies .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 89 . 0 % ) and female ( 91 . 9 % ) with a mean age of 59 years ( range , 18 to 98 years ) .
Entry criteria required that patients have urge or mixed incontinence ( with a predominance of urge ) as evidenced by ≥ 6 urge incontinence episodes per week and ≥ 10 micturitions per day .
Study 1 was a fixed - dose escalation design , whereas the other two studies used a dose - adjustment design in which each patient ' s final dose was adjusted to a balance between improvement of incontinence symptoms and tolerability of side effects .
All three studies included patients known to be responsive to oxybutynin or other anticholinergic medications , and these patients were maintained on a final dose for up to 2 weeks .
The efficacy results for the three controlled trials are presented in the following Tables 4 , 5 , and 6 and Figures 3 , 4 , and 5 .
Table 4 : Number of Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per Week Study 1 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n Placebo Mean Baseline 34 15 . 9 16 20 . 9 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline † 34 - 15 . 8 ( 8 . 9 ) 16 - 7 . 6 ( 8 . 6 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( - 13 . 6 , - 2 . 8 ) * ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets - Placebo ) * The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and placebo was statistically significant .
† Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline values Figure 3 : Mean Change ( ± SD ) in Urge Incontinence Episodes Per Week from Baseline ( Study 1 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] * The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and placebo was statistically significant Table 5 : Number of Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per Week ( Study 2 ) Study 2 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n oxybutynin Mean Baseline 53 27 . 6 52 23 . 0 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline † 53 - 17 . 6 ( 11 . 9 ) 52 - 19 . 4 ( 11 . 9 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( - 2 . 8 , 6 . 5 ) ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets - oxybutynin ) † Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline values Figure 4 : Mean Change ( ± SD ) in Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per Week from Baseline ( Study 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 6 : Number of Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per Week ( Study 3 ) Study 3 n Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets n oxybutynin Mean Baseline 111 18 . 9 115 19 . 5 Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline † 111 - 14 . 5 ( 8 . 7 ) 115 - 13 . 8 ( 8 . 6 ) 95 % Confidence Interval for Difference ( - 3 . 0 , 1 . 6 ) ** ( Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets - oxybutynin ) ** The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and oxybutynin fulfilled the criteria for comparable efficacy .
† Covariate adjusted mean with missing observations set to baseline values Figure 5 : Mean Change ( ± SD ) in Urge Urinary Incontinence Episodes Per Week from Baseline ( Study 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ** The difference between Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets and oxybutynin fulfilled the criteria for comparable efficacy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , USP 10 mg are round , biconvex , white coated tablets imprinted in black ink with " 271 " on one side and " KU " on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 90 Tablets NDC 43063 - 790 - 90 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture and humidity .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Patients should be informed that oxybutynin may produce angioedema that could result in life threatening airway obstruction .
Patients should be advised to promptly discontinue oxybutynin therapy and seek immediate medical attention if they experience swelling of the tongue , edema of the laryngopharynx , or difficulty breathing .
• Patients should be informed that anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents such as Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , may produce clinically significant adverse reactions related to anticholinergic activity such as : • Urinary retention and constipation • Heat prostration due to decreased sweating .
Heat prostration can occur when anticholinergic medicines are administered in the presence of high environmental temperature .
• Patients should be informed that anticholinergic medicines such as Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets may produce drowsiness ( somnolence ) , dizziness or blurred vision .
Patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets effects have been determined .
• Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents such as Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
• Patients should be informed that Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids .
Patients should not chew , divide , or crush tablets .
The medication is contained within a nonabsorbable shell designed to release the drug at a controlled rate .
The tablet shell is eliminated from the body ; patients should not be concerned if they occasionally notice in their stool something that looks like a tablet .
• Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be taken at approximately the same time each day .
For more information call 1 - 844 - 834 - 0530 .
Distributed by : Lannett Company , Inc . , Philadelphia , PA 19136 CIA72763N Rev . 04 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Oxybutynin chloride Extended - release tablets 10 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
