Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive dis order ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of imipramine hydrochloride or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Imipramine hydrochloride is not approved for use in pediatric patients ( see WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients , and PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
DESCRIPTION Imipramine hydrochloride tablets USP is supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Imipramine hydrochloride USP , the original tricyclic antidepressant , is a member of the dibenzazepine group of compounds .
It is designated 5 - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) propyl - 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5 H dibenz [ ‘ b , f ] - azepine monohydrochloride .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C19H24N2 • HCl MW = 316 . 88 Imipramine hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white , odorless , or practically odorless crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in water and in alcohol , soluble in acetone , and insoluble in ether and in benzene .
Inactive Ingredients : Colloidal silicon dioxide , D & C red # 30 and # 40 , D & C yellow # 6 and # 10 , dicalcium phosphate , F D & C blue # 1 and # 2 , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanism of action of Imipramine hydrochloride , USP is not definitely known .
However , it does not act primarily by stimulation of the central nervous system .
The clinical effect is hypothesized as being due to potentiation of adrenergic synapses by blocking uptake of norepinephrine at nerve endings .
The mode of action of the drug in controlling childhood enuresis is thought to be apart from its antidepressant effect .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Depression - For the relief of symptoms of depression .
Endogenous depression is more likely to be alleviated than other depressive states .
One to three weeks of treatment may be needed before optimal therapeutic effects are evident .
Childhood Enuresis - May be useful as temporary adjunctive therapy in reducing enuresis in children aged 6 years and older , after possible organic causes have been excluded by appropriate tests .
In patients having daytime symptoms of frequency and urgency , examination should include voiding cystourethrography and cystoscopy , as necessary .
The effectiveness of treatment may decrease with continued drug administration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibiting compounds is contraindicated .
Hyperpyretic crises or severe convulsive seizures may occur in patients receiving such combinations .
The potentiation of adverse effects can be serious , or even fatal .
When it is desired to substitute Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP in patients receiving a monoamine oxidase inhibitor , as long an interval should elapse as the clinical situation will allow , with a minimum of 14 days .
Initial dosage should be low and increases should be gradual and cautiously prescribed .
The drug is contraindicated during the acute recovery period after a myocardial infarction .
Patients with a known hypersensitivity to this compound should not be given the drug .
The possibility of cross - sensitivity to other dibenzazepine compounds should be kept in mind .
WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment . Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSIRs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 - 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs . placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 - 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 - 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months . However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants ants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring s hould include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for imipramine hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder - A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that imipramine hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Angle - closure Glaucoma - The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP may trigger an angle - closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy .
Children - A dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg / day of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP should not be exceeded in childhood .
ECG changes of unknown significance have been reported in pediatric patients with doses twice this amount .
Extreme caution should be used when this drug is given to : patients with cardiovascular disease because of the possibility of conduction defects , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , myocardial infarction , strokes , and tachycardia .
These patients require cardiac surveillance at all dosage levels of the drug ; patients with history of urinary retention , or history of narrow angle glaucoma because of the drug ' s anticholinergic properties ; hyperthyroid patients or those on thyroid medication because of the possibility of cardiovascular toxicity ; patients with a history of seizure disorder because this drug has been shown to lower the seizure threshold ; patients receiving guanethidine , clonidine , or similar agents , since Imipramine hydrochloride tablets USP may block the pharmacologic effects of these drugs ; patients receiving methylphenidate hydrochloride .
Since methylphenidate hydrochloride may inhibit the metabolism of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP , downward dosage adjustment of imipramine hydrochloride may be required when given concomitantly with methylphenidate hydrochloride .
Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP may enhance the CNS depressant effects of alcohol .
Therefore , it should be borne in mind that the dangers inherent in a suicide attempt or accidental overdosage with the drug may be increased for the patient who uses excessive amounts of alcohol ( seePRECAUTIONS ) .
Since Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as operating an automobile or machinery , the patient should be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS General An ECG recording should be taken prior to the initiation of larger - than - usual doses of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP and at appropriate intervals thereafter until steady state is achieved .
( Patients with any evidence of cardiovascular disease require cardiac surveillance at all dosage levels of the drug .
See WARNINGS . )
Elderly patients and patients with cardiac disease or a prior history of cardiac disease are at special risk of developing the cardiac abnormalities associated with the use of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP .
It should be kept in mind that the possibility of suicide in seriously depressed patients is inherent in the illness and may persist until significant remission occurs .
Such patients should be carefully supervised during the early phase of treatment with Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP , and may require hospitalization .
Prescriptions should be written for the smallest amount feasible .
Hypomanic or manic episodes may occur , particularly in patients with cyclic disorders .
Such reactions may necessitate discontinuation of the drug .
If needed , Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP may be resumed in lower dosage when these episodes are relieved .
Administration of a tranquilizer may be useful in controlling such episodes .
An activation of the psychosis may occasionally be observed in schizophrenic patients and may require reduction of dosage and the addition of a phenothiazine .
Concurrent administration of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP with electroshock therapy may increase the hazards ; such treatment should be limited to those patients for whom it is essential , since there is limited clinical experience .
Patients taking imipramine hydrochloride should avoid excessive exposure to sunlight since there have been reports of photosensitization .
Both elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels have been reported with imipramine hydrochloride use .
Imipramine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with significantly impaired renal or hepatic function .
Patients who develop a fever and a sore throat during therapy with imipramine hydrochloride should have leukocyte and differential blood counts performed .
Imipramine hydrochloride should be discontinued if there is evidence of pathological neutrophil depression .
Prior to elective surgery , imipramine hydrochloride should be discontinued for as long as the clinical situation will allow .
Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with imipramine hydrochloride and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide about " Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illness , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions " is available for imipramine hydrochloride .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients , their families , and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescriber if these occur while taking imipramine hydrochloride .
Patients should be advised that taking Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP can cause mild pupillary dilation , which in susceptible individuals , can lead to an episode of angle - closure glaucoma .
Pre - existing glaucoma is almost always open - angle glaucoma because angle - closure glaucoma , when diagnosed , can be treated definitively with iridectomy .
Open - angle glaucoma is not a risk factor for angle - closure glaucoma .
Patients may wish to be examined to determine whether they are susceptible to angle closure , and have a prophylactic procedure ( e . g . , iridectomy ) , if they are susceptible .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk - Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to look for the emergence of such symptoms on a day - to - day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ' s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 - The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 ( debrisoquin hydroxylase ) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population ( about 7 % to 10 % of Caucasians are so - called " poor metabolizers " ) ; reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian , African , and other populations are not yet available .
Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) when given usual doses .
Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6 , the increase in plasma concentration may be small , or quite large ( 8 - fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA ) .
In addition , certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers .
An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy .
The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme ( quinidine ; cimetidine ) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 ( many other antidepressants , phenothiazines , and the Type 1 C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide ) .
While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , and paroxetine , inhibit P450 2D6 , they may vary in the extent of inhibition .
The extent to which SSRI - TCA interaction may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved .
Nevertheless , caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other .
Of particular importance , sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine , given the long half - life of the parent and active metabolite ( at least 5 weeks may be necessary ) .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
Furthermore , whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co - therapy , an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required .
It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co - administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6 , The plasma concentration of imipramine may increase when the drug is given concomitantly with hepatic enzyme inhibitors ( e . g . , cimetidine , fluoxetine ) and decrease by concomitant administration with hepatic enzyme inducers ( e . g . , barbiturates , phenytoin ) , and adjustment of the dosage of imipramine may therefore be necessary .
In occasional susceptible patients or in those receiving anticholinergic drugs ( including antiparkinsonism agents ) in addition , the atropine - like effects may become more pronounced ( e . g . , paralytic ileus ) .
Close supervision and careful adjustment of dosage is required when imipramine hydrochloride is administered concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs .
Avoid the use of preparations , such as decongestants and local anesthetics , that contain any sympathomimetic amine ( e . g . , epinephrine , norepinephrine ) , since it has been reported that tricyclic antidepressants can potentiate the effects of catecholamines .
Caution should be exercised when Imipramine hydrochloride is used with agents that lower blood pressure .
imipramine hydrochloride may potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs .
Patients should be warned that imipramine hydrochloride may enhance the CNS depressant effects of alcohol ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have yielded inconclusive results ( see alsoANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY & TOXICOLOGY ) .
There have been no well - controlled studies conducted with pregnant women to determine the effect of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP on the fetus .
However , there have been clinical reports of congenital malformations associated with the use of the drug .
Although a causal relationship between these effects and the drug could not be established , the possibility of fetal risk from the maternal ingestion of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP cannot be excluded .
Therefore , Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP should be used in women who are or might become pregnant only if the clinical condition clearly justifies potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Limited data suggest that Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP is likely to be excreted in human breast milk .
As a general rule , a woman taking a drug should not nurse since the possibility exists that the drug may be excreted in breast milk and be harmful to the child .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population other than pediatric patients with nocturnal enuresis have not been established ( see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ) .
Anyone considering the use of imipramine hydrochloride in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
The safety and effectiveness of the drug as temporary adjunctive therapy for nocturnal enuresis in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age has not been established .
The safety of the drug for long - term , chronic use as adjunctive therapy for nocturnal enuresis in pediatric patients 6 years of age or older has not been established ; consideration should be given to instituting a drug - free period following an adequate therapeutic trial with a favorable response .
A dose of 2 , 5 mg / kg / day should not be exceeded in childhood .
ECG changes of unknown significance have been reported in pediatric patients with doses twice this amount .
Geriatric Use In the literature , there were four well - controlled , randomized , double - blind , parallel group comparison clinical studies done with Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP in the elderly population .
There was a total number of 651 subjects included in these studies .
These studies did not provide a comparison to younger subjects .
There were no additional adverse experiences identified in the elderly .
Clinical studies of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP in the original application did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Post - marketing clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for the elderly should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( See also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adoles cent and Geriatric Patients . )
( See also PRECAUTIONS : General . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS Note — Although the listing which follows includes a few adverse reactions which have not been reported with this specific drug , the pharmacological similarities among the tricyclic antidepressant drugs require that each of the reactions be considered when Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP is administered .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic hypotension , hypertension , tachycardia , palpitation , myocardial infarction , arrhythmias , heart block , ECG changes , precipitation of congestive heart failure , stroke .
Psychiatric : Confusional states ( especially in the elderly ) with hallucinations , disorientation , delusions ; anxiety , restlessness , agitation ; insomnia and nightmares ; hypomania ; exacerbation of psychosis .
Neurological : Numbness , tingling , paresthesias of extremities ; incoordination , ataxia , tremors ; peripheral neuropathy ; extrapyramidal symptoms ; seizures , alterations in EEG patterns ; tinnitus .
Anticholinergic : Dry mouth , and , rarely , associated sublingual adenitis ; blurred vision , disturbances of accommodation , mydriasis ; constipation , paralytic ileus ; urinary retention , delayed micturition , dilation of the urinary tract .
Allergic : Skin rash , petechiae , urticaria , itching , photosensitization ; edema ( general or of face and tongue ) ; drug fever ; cross - sensitivity with desipramine .
Hematologic : Bone marrow depression including agranulocytosis ; eosinophilia ; purpura ; thrombocytopenia .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting , anorexia , epigastric distress , diarrhea ; peculiar taste , stomatitis , abdominal cramps , black tongue .
Endocrine : Gynecomastia in the male ; breast enlargement and galactorrhea in the female ; increased or decreased libido , impotence ; testicular swelling ; elevation or depression of blood sugar levels ; inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) secretion syndrome .
Other : Jaundice ( simulating obstructive ) ; altered liver function ; weight gain or loss ; perspiration ; flushing ; urinary frequency ; drowsiness , dizziness , weakness and fatigue ; headache ; parotid swelling ; alopecia ; proneness to falling .
Withdrawal Symptoms : Though not indicative of addiction , abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged therapy may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
Note — In enuretic children treated with Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP the most common adverse reactions have been nervousness , sleep disorders , tiredness , and mild gastrointestinal disturbances .
These usually disappear during continued drug administration or when dosage is decreased .
Other reactions which have been reported include constipation , convulsions , anxiety , emotional instability , syncope , and collapse .
All of the adverse effects reported with adult use should be considered .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reaction has been reported during post - approval use of imipramine .
Because this reaction is reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate frequency .
Eye disorders : angle - closure glaucoma OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate tricyclic overdose .
As the management is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic overdose .
Therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
Children have been reported to be more sensitive than adults to an acute overdosage of imipramine hydrochloride .
An acute overdose of any amount in infants or young children , especially , must be considered serious and potentially fatal .
Manifestations These may vary in severity depending upon factors such as the amount of drug absorbed , the age of the patient , and the interval between drug ingestion and the start of treatment .
Critical manifestations of overdose include cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic toxicity .
Other CNS manifestations may include drowsiness , stupor , ataxia , restlessness , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , muscle rigidity , athetoid and choreiform movements .
Cardiac abnormalities may include tachycardia and signs of congestive failure , Respiratory depression , cyanosis , shock , vomiting , hyperpyrexia , mydriasis , and diaphoresis may also be present .
Management Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ' s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of 6 hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at anytime during this period , extended monitoring is required .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination - All patients suspected of tricyclic overdose should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
Emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular - A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mmHg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium , or phenytoin , Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyrarnide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricyclic poisoning .
CNS - In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration , Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat lifethreatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up - Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management - The principles of management of child and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depression Lower dosages are recommended for elderly patients and adolescents .
Lower dosages are also recommended for outpatients as compared to hospitalized patients who will be under close supervision . Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually , noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance .
Following remission , maintenance medication may be required for a longer period of time , at the lowest dose that will maintain remission .
Usual Adult Dose Hospitalized Patients - Initially , 100 mg / day in divided doses gradually increased to 200 mg / day as required .
If no response after two weeks , increase to 250 to 300 mg / day .
Outpatients - Initially , 75 mg / day increased to 150 mg / day .
Dosages over 200 mg / day are not recommended .
Maintenance , 50 to 150 mg / day .
Adolescent and Geriatric Patients - Initially , 30 to 40 mg / day ; it is generally not necessary to exceed 100 mg / day .
Childhood Enuresis Initially , an oral dose of 25 mg / day should be tried in children aged 6 and older .
Medication should be given one hour before bedtime .
If a satisfactory response does not occur within one week , increase the dose to 50 mg nightly in children under 12 years ; children over 12 may receive up to 75 mg nightly .
A daily dose greater than 75 mg does not enhance efficacy and tends to increase side effects .
Evidence suggests that in early night bedwetters , the drug is more effective given earlier and in divided amounts , i . e . , 25 mg in midafternoon , repeated at bedtime .
Consideration should be given to instituting a drug free period following an adequate therapeutic trial with a favorable response , Dosage should be tapered off gradually rather than abruptly discontinued ; this may reduce the tendency to relapse .
Children who relapse when the drug is discontinued do not always respond to a subsequent course of treatment .
A dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg / day should not be exceeded , ECG changes of unknown significance have been reported in pediatric patients with doses twice this amount .
The safety and effectiveness of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP as temporary adjunctive therapy for nocturnal enuresis in children less than 6 years of age has not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED The three strengths of Imipramine hydrochloride tablets USP , are available as follows : Tablets 10 mg - round , yellow , compressed , film - coated tablet , debossed with " EP " and " 133 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ............
NDC 69315 - 133 - 01 Bottles of 1000 .......... NDC 69315 - 133 - 10 Tablets 25 mg - round , brown , compressed , film - coated tablet , debossed with " EP " and " 134 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ............
NDC 69315 - 134 - 01 Bottles of 1000 .......... NDC 69315 - 134 - 10 Tablets 50 mg - round , green , compressed , film - coated tablet , debossed with " EP " and " 135 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ............
NDC 69315 - 135 - 01 Bottles of 1000 ...........
NDC 69315 - 135 - 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) with a child - resistant closure .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY & TOXICOLOGY A . Acute : Oral LD50 ranges are as follows : Rat 355 to 682 mg / kg Dog 100 to 215 mg / kg Depending on the dosage in both species , toxic signs proceeded progressively from depression , irregular respiration and ataxia to convulsions and death , B . Reproduction / Teratogenic : The overall evaluation may be summed up in the following manner : Oral : Independent studies in three species ( rat , mouse , and rabbit ) revealed that when Imipramine Hydrochloride is administered orally in doses up to approximately 2 - 1 / 2 times the maximum human dose in the first 2 species and up to 25 times the maximum human dose in the third species , the drug is essentially free horn teratogenic potential .
In the three species studied , only one instance of fetal abnormality occurred ( in the rabbit ) and in that study there was likewise an abnormality in the control group .
However , evidence does exist from the rat studies that some systemic and embryotoxic potential is demonstrable .
This is manifested by reduced litter size , a slight increase in the stillborn rate , and a reduction in the mean birth weight .
Manufactured & Distributed by : Leading Pharma , LLC USA Fairfield , NJ 07004 Rev . 03 11 / 20 Medication Guide Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with you or your family member ' s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ' s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
• Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
• Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions . Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
• How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood • Visual problems : eye pain , changes in vision , swelling or redness in or around the eye Who should not take Imiparmine hydrochloride tablets USP ?
Do not take Imiparmine hydrochloride tablets USP if you : • take a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if you take an MAOI , including the antibiotic linezolid .
• Do not take an MAOI within 2 weeks of stopping Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP unless directed to do so by your physician .
• Do not Imipramine hydrochloride tablets , USP if you stopped taking an MAOI in the last 2 weeks unless directed to do so by your physician .
What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Visual problems : Only some people are at risk for these problems . You may want to undergo an eye examination to see if you are at risk and receive preventive treatment if you are .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ' s healthcare provider for more information .
CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR MEDICAL ADVICE ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
YOU MAY REPORT SIDE EFFECTS TO THE FDA AT 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 OR LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 1 - 844 - 740 - 7500 .
Manufactured by : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ USA 07004 Rev . 02 01 / 17 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
