Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each mL of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) contains 100 mg of sulfacetamide sodium in a vehicle consisting of diethanolamine ; EDTA ; hydroxyethyl cellulose ; lauramide DEA ; methylparaben ; polyethylene glycol 400 , monolaurate ; propylene glycol ; purified water ; simethicone ; sodium chloride ; sodium metabisulfite and xanthan gum .
Sulfacetamide sodium is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Chemically , sulfacetamide sodium is N ' - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , based on sulfonamides acting as a competitive inhibitor of paraminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) utilization , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin in humans has not been determined , in vitro studies with human cadaver skin indicated a percutaneous absorption of about 4 % .
Sulfacetamide sodium is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has been reported to be between 7 to 13 hours .
The pharmacokinetics of sulfacetamide and its major metabolite sulfanilamide in sulfacetamide sodium lotion was evaluated in adult subjects ( N = 14 ) with acne vulgaris .
The subjects applied sulfacetamide sodium lotion to their face , back , chest and shoulders every 12 hours for 28 days .
The percentage of the applied dose of sulfacetamide sodium lotion excreted in the urine as sulfacetamide plus sulfanilamide ranged from 0 . 08 to 0 . 33 % .
INDICATIONS Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) is indicated in the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or any other component of this preparation ( see WARNINGS section ) .
WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
Sensitivity reactions have been reported in individuals with no prior history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , skin rash or other reactions , discontinue use of this preparation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
PRECAUTIONS General - For external use only .
Keep away from eyes .
If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration , and cross - sensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
Sulfacetamide sodium can cause reddening and scaling of the skin .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of involved skin to be treated are denuded or abraded .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C - Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) .
It is also not known whether Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Kernicterus may occur in the newborn as a result of treatment of a pregnant woman at term with orally administered sulfonamide .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) in pregnant women , and it is not known whether topically applied sulfonamides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether sulfacetamide sodium is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) .
Systemically administered sulfonamides are capable of producing kernicterus in the infants of lactating women .
Small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised in prescribing for nursing women .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials for the management of acne vulgaris , the occurrence of adverse reactions associated with the use of sulfacetamide sodium lotion was infrequent and restricted to local events .
The total incidence of adverse reactions reported in these studies was less than 2 % .
Only one of 105 patients treated with sulfacetamide sodium lotion had adverse reactions of erythema , itching and edema .
It has been reported that sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation , stinging and burning .
While the irritation may be transient , occasionally , the use of medication has to be discontinued .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to affected areas twice daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) is available as follows : 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) bottles ( NDC 45802 - 896 - 26 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Shake well before using .
Keep tightly closed .
Manufactured By Padagis Yeruham , Israel Distributed By Padagis Allegan , MI 49010 www . padagis . com Rev 11 - 22 34S00 RC F3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 45802 - 896 - 26 Rx Only Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % ( Lotion ) For Topical Use Only Shake Well Before Using 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
