Drug Facts Active ingredient Povidone - iodine 10 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of micro - organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care .
• Patient preoperative skin preparation : for preparation of the skin prior to surgery .
Helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
• First aid to help decrease the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
Warnings For external use only Do not use - in the eyes - over large areas of the body - longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor - if you are allergic to iodine Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Surgical hand scrub ( for use without water ) : • clean under nails with a nail pick • nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge • place a ‘ palmful ’ ( 5 grams ) of product in one hand spread on both hands , paying particular attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces , and rub into the skin until dry ( approximately 1 to 2 minutes ) • place a smaller amount ( 2 . 5 grams ) into one hand , spread over both hands to wrist , and rub into the skin until dry ( approximately 30 seconds ) Patient preoperative skin preparation : • clean the area • apply product to the operative site prior to surgery First - aid antiseptic : • clean the affected area .
May be covered with a sterile bandage .
• If bandaged , let dry first .
• If used as a wet compress bandage lightly .
Keep bandage wet with solution .
Other information • keep the product under 77 ° F ( 25 ° F ) and away from food and children • keep product sealed after opening Inactive ingredients denatured ethyl alcohol , glycerin , polysorbate 20 , potassium iodine , trisodium citrate TO REPORT A SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENT CONTACT [ ? ]
YAKUPLU DISTRICT , BEYSAN INDUSTRIAL SITE , BIRLIK STR , NAKIPOGLU CENTRE NO 12 .
FLOOR 1 .
BEYLIKDUZU / ISTANBUL / TURKEY TEL : ( 0212 ) 476 28 68 / 476 58 88 FAX : ( 0212 ) 476 08 98 INFO @ NATURELMEDIKAL . COM . TR MADE IN TURKEY NATUREL For People POVIOFIX Antiseptic Solution Povidone - iodine 10 % 33 . 8 fl oz ( 1 . 05 qt ) ( 1 l ) Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
