Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Use For the temporary relief of pain .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or on cut , irritated or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor When using this product • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton .
• Do not use more than one patch in an 8 hour period .
Maximum 3 patches per day .
• Rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • Do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • Do not allow contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug products that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch • NOTE : patches may not adhere as well to all individuals , skin types , or certain parts of the body .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast feeding ask a physician before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults / children 12 years and older • clean and dry affected area • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing completely to apply patch to affected area • once applied , press firmly and rub on all sides and center of patch to help adhesive adhere to skin • do not remove patch and reapply , this will result in the patch not sticking • avoid strenuous exercise while wearing patch , this will result in patch not sticking • do not use more than one patch in an 8 hour period .
Children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature - do not exceed 86 ° Fahrenheit , 30 ° Celsius .
Inactive ingredients Aluminum Glycinate , Glycerin , Kaolin , Methylparaben , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Povidone , Sodium Polyacrylate , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water .
Principal Display Panel – Box Label CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Aspercreme ® Lidocaine Patch * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Lidocaine concentration without a prescription † Lidocaine Pain Relief Patch LIDOCAINE 4 % Odor Free • Desensitizes aggravated nerves • Fast acting • Easy to apply • No irritation or burning Topical analgesic Package Contains 5 Individually Wrapped Patches 5 PATCHES 3 15 / 16 ” x 5 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) † Among over the counter topical analgesics .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Patch Label CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Aspercreme ® Lidocaine Patch * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Lidocaine concentration without a prescription † Lidocaine Pain Relief Patch LIDOCAINE 4 % Odor Free • Desensitizes aggravated nerves • Fast acting • Easy to apply • No irritation or burning Topical analgesic 1 PATCH 3 15 / 16 ” x 5 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) † Among over the counter topical analgesics .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
