Drug Facts Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 20 . 00 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses : • Helps prevent sunburn • higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • retains SPF after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings : For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breast - Feeding , ask a health professional before use Directions : • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
• Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Other Information : • Store bottle in a cool , dry place away from direct sunlight .
• High sun protection product ( for SPF > 30 ) • Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreen may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
Inactive Ingredients : Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Argania Spinosa ( Argan ) Oil , a - Bisabalol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Calendula Officinalis Extract , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Caprylyl / Capryl GLucoside , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetearyl Glucoside , Cetearyl Olivate , Chamomilla Recutita ( Chamomille ) Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Gluconolactone , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sorbitan Olivate , Stearic Acid , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Butter , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Xanthan Gum , Zemea ( Corn ) Propanediol .
Questions ?
916 - 907 - 6508 ( M - F ) ( 9 - 5 pm EST ) Package Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
