Drug Facts Active ingredient Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • hand sanitizer to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire / flame For external use only Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) • 3 - 25 heat seal enclosure Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , tert - Butyl Alcohol , Hydrogen Peroxide , Eucalyptus Oil , Orange ( Citrus sinensis ) Oil , Lemon Oil , Lime Oil , Grapefruit ( Citrus paradisi ) Oil Questions ?
+ 1 - 714 - 604 - 1469 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri 9 : 00 AM - 5 : 00 PM NON - STERILE SOLUTION ESSENTIAL OILS FRAGRANCE 70 % ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL APPLY AND LET DRY WARNING SEE SIDE PANEL DESCRIPTION Renegade Home & Business Decon - I is a non - sterile , antiseptic hand sanitizer .
Solutions with an isopropyl alcohol content of 70 % are known and proven to be effective in decreasing bacteria .
Fresh and citrusy , our Decon hand sanitizer is effective in decontaminating your skin .
This skin - softening formula also contains 100 % pure , therapeutic - grade essential oils .
MADE IN THE U . S . A Manufactured by : Maverick Abrasives , 4340 E Miraloma Ave . , Anaheim , CA 92807 For more ingredient information visit : www . RenegadeProductsUSA . com or call TF : [ 800 ] 276 - 5474 WARNING Cancer and Reproductive Harm www . P65Warnings . ca . gov Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
