Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride , USP Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride – Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC Prescription Medications Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride , USP PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE Phenazopyridine hydrochloride tablet Westminster Pharmaceuticals LLC .
Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safe and effective , and this labeling has not been approved by FDA .
Label 100 mg , Label 200 mg Rx Only DESCRIPTION Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is a reddish - brown , odorless , slightly bitter , crystalline powder .
It has a specific local analgesic effect in the urinary tract , promptly relieving burning and pain .
Following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phenazopyridine HCI oral tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : pregelatinized starch , corn starch , silicon dioxide , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate and PVPK30 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is excreted in the urine where it exerts a topical analgesic effect on the mucosa of the urinary tract .
This action helps to relieve pain , burning , urgency and frequency .
The precise mechanism of action is unknown .
PHARMACOKINETICS The pharmacokinetic properties of Phenazopyridine hydrochloride have not been determined .
Phenazopyridine and its metabolites are rapidly excreted by the kidneys .
In a small number of healthy subjects , 90 % of a 600 mg / day oral dose of Phenazopyridine hydrochloride was eliminated in the urine in 24 hours , 41 % as unchanged drug and 49 % as metabolites .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenazopyridine HCL is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain , burning , urgency frequency , and other discomforts arising from irritation of the mucosa of the lower urinary tract caused by infection , trauma , surgery , endoscopic procedures , or the passage of sounds or catheters .
The use of Phenazopyridine for relief of symptoms should not delay definitive diagnosis and treatment of causative conditions .
The drug should be used for symptomatic relief of pain and not as a substitute for specific surgery or antimicrobial therapy .
Phenazopyridine is compatible with antimicrobial therapy and can help relieve pain and discomfort during the interval before antimicrobial therapy controls the infection .
Treatment of a urinary tract infection with Phenazopyridine should not exceed 2 days .
There is no evidence that the combined administration of Phenazopyridine and an antimicrobial provides greater benefit than administration of the antimicrobial alone after 2 days .
( See Dosage and Administration . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS In patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or its ingredients .
Phenazopyridine is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe liver disease , severe hepatitis or pyelonephritis of pregnancy .
It should be used cautiously in the presence of GI disturbances .
WARNINGS Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals ( IARC 1980 , 1982 , 1987 , NCI 1978 ) .
When administered in the diet , Phenazopyridine hydrochloride increased the incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in female mice and adenomas and adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in rats of both sexes .
There is inadequate evidence for the carcinogenicity of Phenazopyridine hydrochloride in humans ( TARC 1987 ) .
In one limited epidemiological study , no significant excess of any cancer was observed among 2 , 214 patients who received Phenazopyridine hydrochloride and were followed for a minimum of 3 years .
PRECAUTIONS General : The patient should be advised that Phenazopyridine produces an orange to red color in the urine and feces , and may cause staining .
Phenazopyridine may cause discoloration of body fluids and staining of contact lenses has been reported .
A yellowish color of the skin or sclera may indicate accumulation of Phenazopyridine resulting from impaired renal function and necessitates discontinuance of the drug .
It should be noted that a decline in renal function is common in elderly patients .
Phenazopyridine may mask pathological conditions and interfere with laboratory test values using colorimetric , spectrophotometric or fluorometric analysis methods .
Cautious use in patients with G - 6 - PD deficiency is advised since these patients are susceptible to oxidative hemolysis and may have greater potential to develop hemolytic anemia .
Information for Patients : The patient should be advised to take Phenazopyridine with or following food or after eating a snack to reduce stomach upset .
The patients should be aware that Phenazopyridine causes a reddish orange discoloration of the urine and feces , and may stain clothing .
Phenazopyridine may cause discoloration of body fluids and staining of contact lenses has been reported .
There have been reports of teeth discoloration when the product has been broken or held in the mouth prior to swallowing .
Patients should be instructed to take Phenazopyridine for only 2 days if an antibacterial agent is administered concurrently for the treatment of a urinary tract infection .
If symptoms persist beyond those 2 days , the patient should be instructed to contact his or her physician .
Laboratory Tests : Phenazopyridine may interfere with laboratory test values using colorimetric , photometric or fluorometric analysis methods .
Altered urine laboratory test values may include ketone ( sodium nitroprusside ) , bilirubin ( foam test , talc - disk - Fouchet - spot test , Franklin ' s tablet - Fouchet test , p - nitrobenzene diazonium p - toluene sulfonate reagent ) , diacetic acid ( Gerhardt ferric chloride test ) , free hydrochloric acid , glucose ( glucose oxidase tests ) , 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids ( modified Glenn - Nelson ) , 17 - ketosteroids ( Holtorff Koch modification of Zimmerman ) , porphyrins , albumin ( discolors bromophenol blue test areas of commercial reagent strips , nitric acid ring test ) , phenolsulfophthalein , urobilinogen ( color interference with Ehrlich ' s reagent ) , and urinalysis ( spectrophotometric or color - based tests ) .
Phenazopyridine also imparts an orange - red color to stools which may interfere with color tests .
Drug Interactions : The interaction of Phenazopyridine with other drugs has not been studied in a systematic manner .
However , the medical literature to date suggests that no significant interactions have been reported .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term administration of Phenazopyridine has been associated with tumors of the large intestine in rats and of the liver in mice .
Available epidemiological data are insufficient to evaluate the carcinogenicity of Phenazopyridine in humans .
In vitro studies indicate that Phenazopyridine in the presence of metabolic activation is mutagenic in bacteria and mutagenic and clastogenic in mammalian cells .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproductive studies with Phenazopyridine ( in combination with sulfacytine ) in rats given up to 110 mg / kg / day and in rabbits given up to 39 mg / kg / day during organogenesis revealed no evidence of harm to offspring .
One prospective study in human s demonstrated that Phenazopyridine traverses the placenta into the fetal compartment .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Phenazopyridine should be used in pregnant women only if the benefit clearly outweighs the risk .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether Phenazopyridine or its metabolites arc excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of drug therapy to the mother .
Children : Adequate and well - controlled studies have not been performed in the pediatric population .
No pediatric - specific problems have been documented .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 100 mg Tablets : Average adult dosage is two tablets 3 times a day after meals .
200 mg Tablets : Average adult dosage is one tablet 3 times a day after meals .
When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection , the administration of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not exceed 2 days .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse events have been reported : CNS : headache .
Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting and diarrhea .
Dermatologic and Hypersensitivity : rash , pruritus , discoloration , anaphylactoid - like reaction and hypersensitivity hepatitis .
Hematologic : methemoglobinemia , hemolytic anemia , potential hemolytic agent in G - 6 - PD deficiency , sulfhemoglobinemia .
Other : visual disturbances , renal and hepatic toxicity usually associated with overdose , renal calculi , jaundice , discoloration of body fluids and aseptic meningitis .
HOW SUPPLIED Dispense contents with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) and in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed in 1 bottle of 6 tablets .
NDC 71205 - 163 - 06 200 mg , 6 count - Appearance : Reddish - brown , round , film coated tablets debossed “ 813 ” on one side and plain on the other .
Distributed in 1 bottle of 10 tablets .
NDC 71205 - 163 - 10 200 mg , 10 count - Appearance : Reddish - brown , round , film coated tablets debossed “ 813 ” on one side and plain on the other .
Distributed in 1 bottle of 12 tablets .
NDC 71205 - 163 - 12 200 mg , 12 count - Appearance : Reddish - brown , round , film coated tablets debossed “ 813 ” on one side and plain on the other .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC Nashville , TN 37217 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Rev : 09 / 16 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 MG NDC 71205 - 163 - 06 Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride , USP 200 mg Rx only 6 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
