This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antimicrobial Purpose Antimicrobial , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use When using this product do not use in ot near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
When using this product do not use in ot near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together quickly until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using .
Other information • Store below 110 F ( 43 C ) Inactive ingredients Deionized Water , Propylene Glycol , Acrylates Copolymer , Sodium Hyroxide , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Glycerin , Mentha viridis ( Spearmint ) Leaf Oil Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 mL NDC : 73485 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 250 mL NDC : 73485 - 001 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
