Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate .
Hydrocodone is a centrally - acting narcotic antitussive .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is for oral use only .
Hydrocodone Polistirex : Sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 4 , 5 α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Chlorpheniramine Polistirex : Sulfonated styrene - divinylbenzene copolymer complex with 2 - [ p - chloro - α - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - benzyl ] pyridine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Purified Water , High Fructose Corn Syrup , Sucrose , Propylene Glycol , Xanthan Gum , Vegetable ( Corn ) Oil , Methylparaben , Polysorbate 80 , Ascorbic Acid , Propylparaben , Ethylcellulose , Sorbitol , Dibutyl Sebacate , Natural Mango Flavor , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Sodium Benzoate , and Phosphoric Acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic antitussive and analgesic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known ; however , hydrocodone is believed to act directly on the cough center .
In excessive doses , hydrocodone , like other opium derivatives , will depress respiration .
The effects of hydrocodone in therapeutic doses on the cardiovascular system are insignificant .
Hydrocodone can produce miosis , euphoria , and physical and psychological dependence .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine drug ( H1 receptor antagonist ) that also possesses anticholinergic and sedative activity .
It prevents released histamine from dilating capillaries and causing edema of the respiratory mucosa .
Hydrocodone release from Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is controlled by an extended - release drug delivery system , which combines an ion - exchange polymer matrix with a diffusion rate - limiting permeable coating .
Chlorpheniramine release is prolonged by use of an ion - exchange polymer system .
Following multiple dosing with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension products , hydrocodone mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 22 . 8 ( 5 . 9 ) ng / mL occurred at 3 . 4 hours .
Chlorpheniramine mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 58 . 4 ( 14 . 7 ) ng / mL occurred at 6 . 3 hours following multiple dosing .
Peak plasma levels obtained with an immediate - release syrup occurred at approximately 1 . 5 hours for hydrocodone and 2 . 8 hours for chlorpheniramine .
The plasma half - lives of hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine have been reported to be approximately 4 and 16 hours , respectively .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is indicated for relief of cough and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or a cold in adults and children 6 years of age and older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is contraindicated in patients with a known allergy or sensitivity to hydrocodone or chlorpheniramine .
The use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age due to the risk of fatal respiratory depression .
WARNINGS Respiratory Depression As with all narcotics , Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension produces dose - related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers .
Hydrocodone affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
Caution should be exercised when Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease , or whenever ventilatory function is depressed .
If respiratory depression occurs , it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride and other supportive measures when indicated ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions , which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Obstructive Bowel Disease Chronic use of narcotics may result in obstructive bowel disease especially in patients with underlying intestinal motility disorder .
Pediatric Use The use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
In pediatric patients , as well as adults , the respiratory center is sensitive to the depressant action of narcotic cough suppressants in a dose - dependent manner .
Caution should be exercised when administering Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension to pediatric patients 6 years of age and older .
Overdose or concomitant administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with other respiratory depressants may increase the risk of respiratory depression in pediatric patients .
Benefit to risk ratio should be carefully considered , especially in pediatric patients with respiratory embarrassment ( e . g . , croup ) ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Caution is advised when prescribing this drug to patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , asthma , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Special Risk Patients As with any narcotic agent , Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ' s disease , prostatic hypertrophy , or urethral stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension must not be diluted with fluids or mixed with other drugs as this may alter the resin - binding and change the absorption rate , possibly increasing the toxicity .
Patients should be advised to measure Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with an accurate measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
A pharmacist can recommend an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
A dosing spoon is provided with the 4 oz ( 118 mL ) packaged product .
One side of the spoon is for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is for a 5 mL dose .
Instruct the patient to fill to level the side of the spoon for the dose that has been prescribed .
The spoon should not be overfilled .
Rinse the measuring device or dosing spoon after each use .
Shake well before using .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Cough Reflex Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is used postoperatively , and in patients with pulmonary disease .
Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics , antihistaminics , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
When combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone .
The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproductive studies have not been conducted with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Hydrocodone has been shown to be teratogenic in hamsters when given in doses 700 times the human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
Labor and Delivery As with all narcotics , administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is contraindicated in children less than 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS , Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders ) .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension should be used with caution in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( see WARNINGS , Pediatric Use ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders : Nausea and vomiting may occur ; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients .
Prolonged administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension may produce constipation .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Death .
Nervous System Disorders : Sedation , drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , euphoria , dizziness , psychic dependence , mood changes .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters , and urinary retention have been reported with opiates .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Dryness of the pharynx , occasional tightness of the chest , and respiratory depression ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Overdose with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension in children 6 years of age and older , in adolescents , and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Rash , pruritus .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is a Schedule II narcotic .
Psychic dependence , physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics ; therefore , Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension should be prescribed and administered with caution .
However , psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is used for a short time for the treatment of cough .
Physical dependence , the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome , assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued oral narcotic use , although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Serious overdosage with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
Although miosis is characteristic of narcotic overdose , mydriasis may occur in terminal narcosis or severe hypoxia .
In severe overdosage apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
The manifestations of chlorpheniramine overdosage may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Treatment Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone hydrochloride is a specific antidote for respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics including hydrocodone .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be administered , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone in this formulation may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
For further information , see full prescribing information for naloxone hydrochloride .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Gastric emptying may be useful in removing unabsorbed drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is important that Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is measured with an accurate measuring device ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ) .
A dosing spoon is provided with the 4 oz ( 118 mL ) packaged product .
One side of the spoon is for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is for a 5 mL dose .
Fill to level the side of the spoon for the dose that has been prescribed .
Do not overfill .
Rinse with water after each use .
For prescriptions where a dosing spoon is not provided , a pharmacist can provide an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
Each 5 mL of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension contains hydrocodone polistirex equivalent to 10 mg hydrocodone bitartrate , and chlorpheniramine polistirex equivalent to 8 mg chlorpheniramine maleate .
Shake well before using .
Rinse the measuring device with water after each use .
Adults and Children 12 Years and Older 5 mL every 12 hours ; do not exceed 10 mL in 24 hours .
Children 6 to 11 Years of Age 2 . 5 mL every 12 hours ; do not exceed 5 mL in 24 hours .
This medicine is contraindicated in children under 6 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 17856 - 0301 NDC : 17856 - 0301 - 1 5 mL in a CUP Manufactured by : Neos Therapeutics , LP Grand Prairie , TX 75050 U . S . Patent 8 , 470 , 375 ; 8 , 512 , 759 ; 8 , 318 , 210 ; 7 , 871 , 645 ; 8 , 329 , 224 ; 8 , 343 , 546 PIN030104 05 / 16 PATIENT INFORMATION Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension CII Read this Patient Information before you start taking Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is a prescription medicine used to treat cough and upper respiratory symptoms you can have with allergies or a cold .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is for adults and children age 6 years and older .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension contains two medicines , hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine .
Hydrocodone is a narcotic cough suppressant .
Chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension is a controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains hydrocodone that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep your Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension in a safe place , to protect it from theft .
Never give your Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension to anyone else , because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away this medicine is against the law .
Who should not take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
Do not take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
• are a child under 6 years old .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension can cause a decreased rate of breathing ( respiratory depression ) which can lead to death .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
Before you take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension , tell your doctor if you : • have lung or breathing problems • have had a head injury • have pain in your belly ( abdomen ) • have eye problems , such as glaucoma • have prostate problems • have problems with your urinary tract ( urethral stricture ) • plan to have surgery • abuse alcohol • have kidney or liver problems • have thyroid problems , such as hypothyroidism • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
If you take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension regularly before your baby is born , your newborn baby may have withdrawal symptoms because their body has become used to the medicine .
Symptoms of withdrawal in a newborn baby may include : • irritability • crying more than usual • shaking ( tremors ) • jitteriness • breathing faster than normal • diarrhea or more stools than normal • sneezing • yawning • vomiting • fever If you take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension regularly before your baby is born , your baby could have breathing problems .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Using Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you : • take pain medicines such as narcotics • take cold or allergy medicines that contain antihistamines or cough suppressants • take medicines for mental illness ( anti - psychotics , anti - anxiety ) • drink alcohol • take medicines for depression including monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) • take medicines for stomach or intestine problems Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
• Take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Shake the Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension bottle well before you use it .
• Do not mix Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with other fluids or medicines .
Mixing may change how Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension works .
• Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension can be taken with or without food .
• Only measure Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension with the dosing spoon that comes with your prescription .
See Figure A .
If you do not have a dosing spoon for your medicine , ask your pharmacist to give you a measuring device to help you measure the correct amount of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
Do not use a household teaspoon to measure your medicine .
You may accidently take too much .
• One side of the dosing spoon is marked for a 2 . 5 mL dose .
The other side of the spoon is marked for a 5 mL dose .
Find the side of the spoon that has the dose you are taking .
• Fill that side of the spoon so the medicine is level with the rim of the spoon .
Do not overfill the spoon .
• Rinse the spoon with water after each use .
Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] • If you take too much Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
• Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension can cause you to be drowsy .
Do not drive a car or use machinery while you take Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension until you know how it affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol while taking Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension may cause serious side effects , including : • Decreased breathing ( respiratory depression ) which can lead to death .
Call your doctor or get emergency treatment right away if you have : • shallow or slow breathing • confusion • excessive sleepiness • drowsiness leading to inability to think clearly or do normal physical activities • bowel problems , including constipation and bowel obstruction The most common side effects of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension are : • nausea and vomiting • constipation • nervous system problems ( anxiety , fear , dizziness , mood changes ) • urinary tract problems • dry throat • chest tightness Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
• Store Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension in a safe place at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
• Keep Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension call 1 - ( 888 ) - 319 - 1789 .
What are the ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension ?
Active Ingredient : hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified Water , High Fructose Corn Syrup , Sucrose , Propylene Glycol , Xanthan Gum , Vegetable ( Corn ) Oil , Methylparaben , Polysorbate 80 , Ascorbic Acid , Propylparaben , Ethylcellulose , Sorbitol , Dibutyl Sebacate , Natural Mango Flavor , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Sodium Benzoate , and Phosphoric Acid .
Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended - Release Oral Suspension Manufactured by : Neos Therapeutics , LP Grand Prairie , TX 75050 This patient information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
U . S . Patent 8 , 470 , 375 ; 8 , 512 , 759 ; 8 , 318 , 210 ; 7 , 871 , 645 ; 8 , 329 , 224 ; 8 , 343 , 546 PIN030104 05 / 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] HYDROCODONE POLISTIREX AND CHLORPHENIRAMINE POLISTIREX SUSPENSION , EXTENDED RELEASE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
