Active ingredients Purpose Dibucaine 1 % ...............................................
Hemorrhoidal / Local analgesic ointment Active ingredients Purpose Dibucaine 1 % ...............................................
Hemorrhoidal / Local analgesic ointment Uses temporarily relieves pain and itching due to : - hemorrhoids or other anorectal disorders - sunburn - minor burns - minor cuts - scrapes - insect bites - minor skin irritation Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses temporarily relieves pain and itching due to : - hemorrhoids or other anorectal disorders - sunburn - minor burns - minor cuts - scrapes - insect bites - minor skin irritation Other information - to secure child resistant cap ; screw cap tightly .
Then turn cap in opposite direction .
If clicking sound is not heard , repeat procedure .
- see crimp of tube for lot number and expiration date - store at controlled room temperature 20 degrees to 25 degrees c ( 68 degrees to 77 degrees F ) Warnings For external use only .
Allergy alert - certain persons san develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product Do not use - in or near the eyes - do not get into the eyes - in infants under 2 years of age - in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas - do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device Stop use and ask a doctor if - condition worsens , or does not improve within 7 days - the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , bleeding or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast feeding , as a health care professional before use Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions - if possible clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly - gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying Adults and children 12 and over - apply externally to the affected area up to 3 to 4 times a day .
Children under 2 - 12 years of age - ask a doctor Infants under 2 years of age - DO NOT USE Inactive Ingredients acetone sodium bisulfite , lanolin , light mineral oil , purified water , white petrolatum [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
