Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Contents under pressure - do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking .
Directions • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in a well - ventilated area • Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Mineral Oil ( Paraffinum Liquidum ) , Polyester - 8 , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( Alcohol Denat . )
, VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration .
• Store at 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68ºC to 77ºF ) Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 950 - 2563 SPF 30 C / S Sunscreen Aloe Vera [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
