Drug Facts Active ingredient Stannous fluoride 0 . 454 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Anticavity , antisensitivity toothpaste Uses • aids in the prevention of cavities • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact When using this product do not use for sensitivity longer than four weeks unless recommended by a dentist .
Stop use and ask a dentist if the sensitivity problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 yrs .
& older : apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) or as recommended by a dentist .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth • do not swallow • children under 12 yrs .
of age : ask a dentist Other information • products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth • adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist • this Crest is specially formulated to help prevent staining • see your dentist regularly Inactive ingredients glycerin , sorbitol , water , hydrated silica , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium citrate , flavor , sodium gluconate , carrageenan , xanthan gum , sodium saccharin , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium hydroxide , stannous chloride , sucralose , titanium dioxide Questions ?
1 - 800 - 594 - 4158 DISTR .
BY PROCTER & GAMBLE , CINCINNATI , OH 45202 Principal Display Panel - 116 g tube in carton Crest ® PRO HEALTH ™ FLUORIDE TOOTHPASTE FOR ANTICAVITY AND SENSITIVE TEETH DENSIFY ™ ACTIVELY REBUILDS TOOTH DENSITY TO EXTEND THE LIFE OF TEETH 2 X ENAMEL PROTECTION SYSTEM DUAL ACTION NET WT 4 . 1 OZ ( 116 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
