ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Zinc Oxide 9 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen USES Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer , early skin aging by the sun .
INDICATION SPF RX ' s Ultra - Clear Skin Hydrator sets a new standard in healthy skin and nourishing skin protection .
It is a zinc - based broad spectrum sunscreen that not only protects against UVA and UVB rays , it has Liposhield ® to shield your skin from the high energy visible light from smartphones , computer screens and other indoor light sources .
Professional strength skin calming and nourishing moisture : Ultra - Clear Daily Skin Hydrator is actually a mult - functional facial product that also nourishes and hydrates your skin with a potent blend of hyaluronic acid and pure ceramides .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply : - After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating - At least every 2 hours .
Immediately after towel drying .
Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer & early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months .
Ask a doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Methicone , Isododecane , Propanediol , Caprylic / Capric Triglycerides , Isodecyl Neopentanoate , Dimethicone / bis - Isobutyl PPG - 20 Crosspolymer , Stearyl / Octyldodecyl Citrate Crosspolymer , Tapioca Starch , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Glycerin , Isostearic Acid , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Benzoic Acid , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycereth - 2 Cocoate , Dicaprylyl Ether , Dehydroxanthan Gum , Carthamus Tinctorius Seed Oil , Melanin , Sodium Hyaluronate , Silicon Dioxide , Tocopheryl Acetate , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate , Porphyridium Cruentum Extract , Eucalyptus Globulus Leaf Extract , Zingiber Officinale Root Extract , Gaultheria Procumbens Leaf Extract , Avena Sativa Kernel Extract , Allantoin , Ceramide 3 OTHER INFORMATION Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
