Drug Facts Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • patient preoperative skin preparation : preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area • as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub • wet hands and forearms under running water for 30 seconds .
Clean fingernails using a nailstick or similar cleaner .
• scrub for 1 . 5 minutes with about 8 mL of product with or without a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and skin between the fingers • rinse thoroughly under running water for 30 seconds • wash for an additional 1 . 5 minutes with 8 mL of product and rinse under running water for 30 seconds • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation • apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleaning • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Label Bactoshield ® CHG 2 % Surgical Scrub Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Antiseptic Non - Sterile Solution SCJ PROFESSIONAL HEALTHCARE NDC 11084 - 038 - 03 Surgical Scrub 2 % CHG Antimicrobial REORDER # 1322 - 39 SAP # 4000011062 1322 - 52 J ( 622 ) 2SCJ04BTLLBL deb SKIN CARE Net Contents : 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) For Single Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
