Active Ingredients Active Ingredients Each flexible plastic applicator contains : Silver Nitrate ............................. 75 % Potassium Nitrate ..................... 25 % CAUTION : Federal ( USA ) law restricts this device to sale by or on the order of a physician .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION : Prior to use , the applicator stick may be bent or shaped to allow easier access to the target area .
The medicated end of the applicator should be moistened in clean water and applied to the affected tissue .
One applicator is normally sufficient for each application .
The strength of the action is controlled by the amount of water used to moisten the tip .
The applicator action can be stopped by washing the area with a saline solution ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) .
USES : Repara ® Silver Nitrate Applicators are useful for cauterization of skin or mucous membrane and for the removal of granulation tissue , warts and verrucae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS & ANTIDOTES : Repara ® Silver Nitrate Applicators must not be used for genital warts .
Continued application to mucous membranes and open wounds leads to argyria , a blush - black discoloration of the skin due to depositions of granules of silver compounds in the connective tissues .
This condition persists indefinitely or disappears very slowly .
Poisoning by oral ingestion is unlikely with the quantities involved , but treatment for poisoning is the immediate ingestion of large amounts of salt water followed by an emetic .
Then administer a dose of Epsom salts followed with milk .
Immediately call a physician .
CAUTION : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
DO NOT USE ON OR NEAR EYES .
STORAGE : Store at room temperature in the closed package , in a dry place protected from light .
Exposure to light will cause the silver nitrate tip to turn black , but will not affect the product ' s potency .
Comment or Questions ?
Call ( 800 ) 777 - 4908 Manufacturing Information Made in England Manufactured for PSS World Medical , Inc .
4345 Southpoint Blvd .
Jacksonville , FL 32216 Package Label 1655 Each [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1655 Case [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1655 Box [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
