Drug Facts Active ingredient 2 % Salicylic acid Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for best results , use twice daily • wet face • dispense product into hands , lather and massage over face and neck avoiding eyes • rinse thoroughly in warm water and gently pat dry • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce the application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly closed • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , laureth - 3 , polyethylene , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium cocoamphoacetate , niacinamide , sodium lactate , sorbitol , hexyldecanol , fragrance , acrylates C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , sodium hydroxide , dipotassium glycrrhizate , disodium EDTA , bisabolol , cetylhydroxyproline palmitamide , stearic acid , polyquaternium - 43 , brassica campestris ( rapeseed ) sterols , phenoxyethanol , methylparaben , butylparaben , ethylparaben , isobutylparaben , propylparaben , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C yellow no . 6 Questions ?
1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mL Tube Label NEW Clearasil ® ULTRA Acne + Marks Daily Scrub Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication REDUCES MARKS Helps clear pimples fast , and reduces the appearance of acne marks 5 . 0 FL OZ ( 150 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
