WARNING : SEVERE HYPOGLYCEMIA SYMLIN use with insulin increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia , particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes .
When severe hypoglycemia occurs , it is seen within 3 hours following a SYMLIN injection .
Serious injuries may occur if severe hypoglycemia occurs while operating a motor vehicle , heavy machinery , or while engaging in other high - risk activities .
Appropriate patient selection , careful patient instruction , and insulin dose reduction are critical elements for reducing this risk .
WARNING : SEVERE HYPOGLYCEMIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • SYMLIN use with insulin has been associated with an increased risk of severe hypoglycemia , particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes .
• • Hypoglycemia risk may be reduced by appropriate patient selection , careful patient instruction , and insulin dose reduction ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SYMLIN is indicated as an adjunctive treatment in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who use mealtime insulin therapy and who have failed to achieve desired glucose control despite optimal insulin therapy .
SYMLIN is an amylin analog indicated for patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who use mealtime insulin and have failed to achieve desired glycemic control despite optimal insulin therapy ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Upon initiation of SYMLIN , reduce mealtime insulin dose by 50 % .
Monitor glucoses frequently and individualize subsequent insulin dose adjustments ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • Type 1 Diabetes : Start at 15 mcg subcutaneously before major meals .
Increase in 15 mcg increments to a maximum premeal dose of 30 or 60 mcg ; if not tolerated , reduce to 30 mcg , as tolerated ( 2 . 2 ) .
• • Type 2 Diabetes : Start at 60 mcg subcutaneously before major meals then increase to 120 mcg before meals , as tolerated ( 2 . 2 ) .
• • Wait at least 3 days between dose titrations to minimize nausea ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 Important Considerations Pertaining to SYMLIN and Insulin Dose Adjustments SYMLIN dosage differs depending on whether the patient has type 1 or type 2 diabetes [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
SYMLIN should be used only in patients who can fully understand and adhere to proper insulin adjustments and glucose monitoring .
Insulin and SYMLIN dose adjustments should be made only as directed by a healthcare professional skilled in the use of insulin .
When initiating SYMLIN , reduce mealtime insulin doses , including premixed insulins , by 50 % to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia .
To reduce the risk of nausea , wait at least 3 days before titrating SYMLIN to the next dose increment .
Monitor blood glucoses frequently , including pre - and post - meals and at bedtime , particularly when initiating SYMLIN or increasing the SYMLIN dose .
After the initial 50 % reduction in mealtime insulin dose , individualize insulin dose adjustments based on glycemic control and tolerability ( e . g . , if nausea occurs it may affect the dose of insulin required ) .
An increased frequency of mild - to - moderate hypoglycemia should be viewed as a warning sign of increased risk for severe hypoglycemia .
If SYMLIN therapy is discontinued for any reason ( e . g . , surgery or illnesses ) , the same initiation protocol should be followed when SYMLIN therapy is reinstituted [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Using Mealtime Insulin Reduce mealtime insulin doses ( including premixed insulins ) by 50 % , then initiate SYMLIN at 60 mcg subcutaneously , injecting immediately prior to each major meal .
Increase the SYMLIN dose from 60 to 120 mcg prior to each major meal when no clinically significant nausea has occurred for at least 3 days .
If significant nausea persists at the 120 mcg dose , the SYMLIN dose should be decreased to 60 mcg .
2 . 3 Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Reduce mealtime insulin doses by 50 % , then initiate SYMLIN at 15 mcg subcutaneously , injecting immediately prior to each major meal .
Increase the SYMLIN dose to the next increment ( 30 , 45 , or 60 mcg ) when no clinically significant nausea has occurred for at least 3 days .
If significant nausea persists at the 45 or 60 mcg dose level , the SYMLIN dose should be decreased to 30 mcg .
If the 30 mcg dose is not tolerated , discontinuation of SYMLIN therapy should be considered .
2 . 4 Administration SYMLIN should be administered subcutaneously immediately prior to each major meal ( ≥ 250 kcal or containing ≥ 30 grams of carbohydrate ) .
SYMLIN should be at room temperature before injecting to reduce potential injection site reactions .
Each SYMLIN dose should be administered subcutaneously into the abdomen or thigh .
Administration into the arm is not recommended because of variable absorption .
Injection sites should be rotated so that the same site is not used repeatedly .
The injection site selected should also be distinct from the site chosen for any concomitant insulin injection .
SYMLIN and insulin should always be administered as separate injections .
SYMLIN should not be mixed with any type of insulin .
If a SYMLIN dose is missed , wait until the next scheduled dose and administer the usual amount .
2 . 5 Discontinuation of Therapy SYMLIN therapy should be discontinued if there is : • • recurrent unexplained hypoglycemia that requires medical assistance .
• • persistent clinically significant nausea .
• • noncompliance with self - monitoring of blood glucose concentrations .
• • noncompliance with insulin dose adjustments .
• • noncompliance with scheduled healthcare provider contacts or recommended clinic visits .
2 . 6 Preparation and Handling SYMLIN should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and the container permit .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS SYMLIN is supplied as a sterile injection in the following dosage forms : • • 1 . 5 mL disposable multidose SymlinPen ® 60 pen - injector containing 1000 mcg / mL pramlintide ( as acetate ) .
• • 2 . 7 mL disposable multidose SymlinPen ® 120 pen - injector containing 1000 mcg / mL pramlintide ( as acetate ) .
• • 1 . 5 mL SymlinPen ® 60 disposable multidose pen - injector , ( 1000 mcg / mL ) for 15 , 30 , 45 , and 60 mcg doses ( 3 ) .
• • 2 . 7 mL SymlinPen ® 120 disposable multidose pen - injector , ( 1000 mcg / mL ) for 60 and 120 mcg doses ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS SYMLIN is contraindicated in patients with any of the following : • • serious hypersensitivity reaction to SYMLIN or to any of its product components .
• • hypoglycemia unawareness .
• • confirmed gastroparesis .
• • Prior serious hypersensitivity reaction to SYMLIN or its ingredients ( 4 ) • • Hypoglycemia unawareness ( 4 ) • • Confirmed gastroparesis ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Severe hypoglycemia : Increased risk particularly for type 1 diabetes .
Upon initiation of SYMLIN , reduce mealtime insulin dose by 50 % and frequently monitor blood glucoses ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Never share a SymlinPen between patients , even if the needle is changed ( 5 . 3 ) .
• • Do not mix SYMLIN and insulin : Mixing can alter the pharmacokinetics of both products .
Administer as separate injections ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) .
• • Slows gastric emptying : Administer concomitant oral medications at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after SYMLIN if rapid onset or threshold concentration is critical ( 5 . 6 , 7 . 2 ) .
5 . 1 Patient Selection Proper patient selection is critical to the safe and effective use of SYMLIN .
Before initiating SYMLIN , the patient ' s HbA1c , recent blood glucose monitoring data , history of insulin - induced hypoglycemia , current insulin regimen , and body weight should be reviewed .
SYMLIN therapy should only be considered in patients with type 1 diabetes or patients with type 2 diabetes using mealtime insulin who fulfill the following criteria : • • have failed to achieve adequate glycemic control despite individualized insulin management .
• • are receiving ongoing care under the guidance of a healthcare professional skilled in the use of insulin and supported by the services of diabetes educator ( s ) .
Patients meeting any of the following criteria should NOT be considered for SYMLIN therapy : • • poor compliance with current insulin regimen .
• • poor compliance with prescribed self blood glucose monitoring .
• • have a HbA1c > 9 % .
• • recurrent severe hypoglycemia requiring assistance during the past 6 months .
• • presence of hypoglycemia unawareness .
• • confirmed diagnosis of gastroparesis .
• • require the use of drugs that stimulate gastrointestinal motility .
• • pediatric patients .
SYMLIN should be prescribed with caution to persons with visual or dexterity impairment .
5 . 2 Hypoglycemia SYMLIN alone does not cause hypoglycemia .
However , SYMLIN is indicated to be coadministered with mealtime insulin therapy , and in this setting there is an increased risk of severe hypoglycemia , particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes .
If severe hypoglycemia associated with SYMLIN occurs , it is usually seen within the first 2 to 3 hours following a SYMLIN injection .
If severe hypoglycemia occurs while operating a motor vehicle , heavy machinery , or while engaging in other high - risk activities , serious injuries or death may occur .
Therefore , when introducing SYMLIN therapy , appropriate precautions need to be taken to avoid increasing the risk for severe hypoglycemia .
These precautions include frequent monitoring of pre - and post - meal glucose combined with an initial 50 % reduction in doses of mealtime insulin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) ] .
Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced under certain conditions , such as longstanding diabetes ; diabetic neuropathy ; use of medications such as beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , or reserpine ; or intensified glycemic control .
The addition of any anti - diabetic medication , such as SYMLIN , to an existing regimen of one or more anti - diabetic medications ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) , or other medications that can increase the risk of hypoglycemia may necessitate further insulin dose adjustments and particularly close monitoring of blood glucose .
5 . 3 Never Share a SymlinPen Between Patients SymlinPen must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Pen - sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 4 Never Mix SYMLIN and Insulin Mixing SYMLIN and insulin can alter the pharmacokinetics of both products which may result in inadequate glucose control or hypoglycemia .
Therefore , SYMLIN and insulin must always be administered as separate injections and should never be mixed [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Concomitantly Administered Oral Medications SYMLIN slows gastric emptying , which may delay the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications .
Administer the concomitant oral medication at least 1 hour prior to SYMLIN injection or 2 hours after SYMLIN injection if the rapid onset or threshold concentration of the concomitant medication is a critical determinant of its effectiveness ( such as with analgesics , antibiotics , and oral contraceptives ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Medications that Affect Gastrointestinal Motility SYMLIN slows gastric emptying .
SYMLIN is not recommended for patients taking other medications that alter gastrointestinal motility [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Allergy Local Allergy Patients may experience erythema , edema , or pruritus at the site of injection .
These minor reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than SYMLIN , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or improper injection technique .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
• • Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and higher incidence than placebo ) : nausea , vomiting , anorexia , headache ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AstraZeneca at 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Adverse Reactions ( Excluding Hypoglycemia ) Adverse reactions ( excluding hypoglycemia , which is discussed separately below ) commonly associated with SYMLIN when coadministered with a fixed dose of insulin in the 26 - to 52 - week , placebo - controlled trials in patients with type 1 diabetes and patients with type 2 diabetes on mealtime insulin are presented in Table 1 and Table 2 , respectively .
Table 1 : Patients with Type 1 Diabetes : Common Adverse Reactions ( Incidence ≥ 5 % and Greater Incidence with SYMLIN Compared to Placebo ) in 3 Pooled Placebo - Controlled Trials Long - Term , Placebo - Controlled Studies SYMLIN 30 or 60 mcg 3 Times Daily + Insulin Placebo + Insulin ( N = 716 ) % ( N = 538 ) % Nausea 48 17 Anorexia 17 2 Inflicted Injury [ 1 ] 14 10 Vomiting 11 7 Arthralgia 7 5 Fatigue 7 4 Allergic Reaction 6 5 Dizziness 5 4 [ 1 ] Examples of inflicted injury included among others , abrasions , bruises , burns , fractures , lacerations , and muscle strains .
Table 2 : Patients with Type 2 Diabetes on Insulin : Common Adverse Reactions ( Incidence ≥ 5 % and Greater Incidence with SYMLIN Compared to Placebo ) in 2 Pooled Placebo - Controlled Trials Long - Term , Placebo - Controlled Studies SYMLIN 120 mcg 2 Times Daily + Insulin Placebo + Insulin ( N = 292 ) % ( N = 284 ) % Nausea 28 12 Headache 13 7 Anorexia 9 2 Vomiting 8 4 Abdominal pain 8 7 Fatigue 7 4 Dizziness 6 4 Cough 6 4 Pharyngitis 5 2 Most adverse reactions were gastrointestinal in nature .
The incidence of nausea is higher at the beginning of SYMLIN treatment and decreases with time in most patients .
Gradual titration of the SYMLIN dose minimizes the incidence and severity of nausea [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Severe Hypoglycemia Coadministration of SYMLIN with mealtime insulin increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia , particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Two definitions of severe hypoglycemia were used in the SYMLIN clinical trials .
Patient - ascertained severe hypoglycemia was defined as an episode of hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another individual ( including help administering oral carbohydrate ) or requiring the administration of glucagon , intravenous glucose , or other medical intervention .
Medically - assisted severe hypoglycemia was defined as an episode of hypoglycemia that was classified as a serious event by the investigator or that required glucagon , intravenous glucose , hospitalization , paramedic assistance or an emergency room visit .
The incidence of severe hypoglycemia during the SYMLIN clinical development program is summarized in Table 3 and Table 4 .
Table 3 : Incidence and Event Rate of Severe Hypoglycemia in Six - Month , Placebo - Controlled Trials and Dose Titration Trial in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Long - Term , Placebo - Controlled Studies ( No Insulin Dose - Reduction During Initiation ) Placebo - Controlled Dose Titration Study SYMLIN + Insulin Placebo + Insulin SYMLIN + Insulin Placebo + Insulin Severe Hypoglycemia 0 to 3 Months ( n = 716 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 576 ) 0 to 3 Months ( n = 538 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 470 ) 0 to 3 Months ( n = 148 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 133 ) 0 to 3 Months ( n = 147 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 138 ) Patient - Ascertained [ 1 ] Event Rate ( events / patient - year ) 1 . 55 0 . 82 1 . 33 1 . 06 0 . 69 0 . 49 0 . 28 0 . 3 Subject Incidence ( % ) 16 . 8 11 . 1 10 . 8 8 . 7 13 . 5 10 . 5 6 . 1 5 . 8 Medically - Assisted [ 2 ] Event Rate ( events / patient - year ) 0 . 50 0 . 27 0 . 19 0 . 24 0 . 14 0 . 20 0 . 08 0 . 15 Subject Incidence ( % ) 7 . 3 5 . 2 3 . 3 4 . 3 3 . 4 4 . 5 2 . 0 2 . 9 [ 1 ] Patient - ascertained severe hypoglycemia : Requiring the assistance of another individual ( including help ingesting oral carbohydrate ) and / or requiring the administration of glucagon injection , intravenous glucose , or other medical intervention .
[ 2 ] Medically - assisted severe hypoglycemia : Requiring glucagon , intravenous glucose , hospitalization , paramedic assistance , emergency room visit , and / or assessed as a serious adverse event by the investigator .
Table 4 : Incidence and Event Rate of Severe Hypoglycemia in Six - Month , Placebo - Controlled Trials in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Using Insulin Long - Term , Placebo - Controlled Studies ( No Insulin Dose - Reduction During Initiation ) SYMLIN + Insulin Placebo + Insulin Severe Hypoglycemia 0 to 3 Months ( n = 292 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 255 ) 0 to 3 Months ( n = 284 ) > 3 to 6 Months ( n = 251 ) Patient - Ascertained [ 1 ] Event Rate ( events / patient - year ) 0 . 45 0 . 39 0 . 24 0 . 13 Subject Incidence ( % ) 8 . 2 4 . 7 2 . 1 2 . 4 Medically - Assisted [ 2 ] Event Rate ( events / patient - year ) 0 . 09 0 . 02 0 . 06 0 . 07 Subject Incidence ( % ) 1 . 7 0 . 4 0 . 7 1 . 2 [ 1 ] Patient - ascertained severe hypoglycemia : Requiring the assistance of another individual ( including help ingesting oral carbohydrate ) and / or requiring the administration of glucagon injection , intravenous glucose , or other medical intervention .
[ 2 ] Medically - assisted severe hypoglycemia : Requiring glucagon , intravenous glucose , hospitalization , paramedic assistance , emergency room visit , and / or assessed as a serious adverse event by the investigator .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of SYMLIN .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Injection site reactions • • Pancreatitis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Insulin The pharmacokinetic parameters of pramlintide are altered when SYMLIN is mixed in the same syringe with regular , NPH , and 70 / 30 premixed formulations of recombinant human insulin .
SYMLIN and insulin must not be mixed and must be administered as separate injections [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Oral Medications SYMLIN has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications .
When the rapid onset or threshold concentration of a concomitant orally administered medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness ( such as with analgesics , antibiotics , and oral contraceptives ) , the medication should be administered at least 1 hour prior to SYMLIN injection or 2 hours after SYMLIN injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Drugs Affecting Gastrointestinal Motility Due to its effects on gastric emptying , SYMLIN should not be considered for patients taking medications that alter gastrointestinal motility ( e . g . , anticholinergic agents such as atropine ) or medications that slow the intestinal absorption of nutrients ( e . g . , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors ) .
Patients using these medications have not been studied in SYMLIN clinical trials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism The following are examples of medications that may increase the susceptibility to hypoglycemia when administered with SYMLIN : anti - diabetic products , angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , salicylates , somatostatin analogs , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
SYMLIN and these drugs should be coadministered with caution .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from a small number of reports in the manufacturer ’ s safety database on SYMLIN use in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Ex - vivo studies using term perfused human , rabbit , and rat placentas indicate that SYMLIN has low potential to cross the maternal / fetal placental barrier .
In animal reproduction studies , congenital abnormalities were observed in fetuses of pregnant rats but not in fetuses of pregnant rabbits exposed during organogenesis to pramlintide at 10 times the clinical dose of 360 mcg / day , based on exposure ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with an HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , preeclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Animal Data Developmental and reproductive toxicity studies with SYMLIN were performed in pregnant rats and rabbits .
Increases in congenital abnormalities ( neural tube defect , cleft palate , exencephaly ) were observed in fetuses of pregnant rats administered pramlintide subcutaneously during organogenesis at 0 . 3 and 1 mg / kg / day ( 10 and 47 times the human dose of 360 mcg / day based on AUC , respectively ) , but not at 3 mg / kg / day .
Administration of pramlintide to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis resulted in maternal toxicity but did not increase fetal malformations at doses up to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the human dose of 360 mcg / day based on AUC ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no data on the presence of pramlintide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for SYMLIN and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from SYMLIN or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of SYMLIN in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use SYMLIN has been studied in patients ranging in age from 15 to 84 years of age , including 769 patients ≥ 65 to 75 years of age and 87 patients ≥ 75 years of age .
No consistent differences in the efficacy and safety of SYMLIN have been observed in older patients , but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
As is recommended for all patients , SYMLIN and insulin regimens should be carefully managed to minimize the risk of severe hypoglycemia .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The dosing requirements for SYMLIN are not altered in patients with mild ( creatinine clearance [ ClCr ] 60 - 89 mL / min ) , moderate ( ClCr 30 - 59 mL / min ) or severe renal impairment ( ClCr 15 - 29 mL / min ) .
SYMLIN has not been studied in patients with end - stage renal disease [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment SYMLIN use has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Gender No consistent differences in the efficacy and safety of SYMLIN have been observed between men and women in SYMLIN clinical trials ( n = 2799 for male and n = 2085 for female ) .
8 . 9 Race / Ethnicity No consistent differences in the efficacy and safety of SYMLIN have been observed among patients of differing race / ethnicity in SYMLIN clinical trials ( n = 4257 for Caucasian , n = 229 for black , n = 337 for Hispanic or Latino , and n = 61 for Asian and one or more races ) although the smaller sample sizes for non - Caucasians , particularly Asians , limit conclusions .
10 OVERDOSAGE Single 10 mg doses of SYMLIN ( 83 times the maximum recommended dose of 120 mcg for patients with type 2 diabetes ) were administered to 3 healthy volunteers .
All 3 individuals reported severe nausea associated with vomiting , diarrhea , vasodilatation , and dizziness .
No hypoglycemia was reported .
Pramlintide has a short half - life ( approximately 48 minutes in healthy individuals ) .
Initiate supportive measures in the case of overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION SYMLIN ® ( pramlintide acetate ) injection is an anti - diabetic medication for use in patients with diabetes treated with insulin .
Pramlintide is a synthetic analog of human amylin , a naturally occurring neuroendocrine hormone synthesized by pancreatic beta cells that contributes to glucose control during the postprandial period .
Pramlintide is provided as an acetate salt of the synthetic 37 - amino acid polypeptide , which differs in amino acid sequence from human amylin by replacement with proline at positions 25 ( alanine ) , 28 ( serine ) , and 29 ( serine ) .
The structural formula of pramlintide acetate is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pramlintide acetate is a white powder that has a molecular formula of C171H267N51O53S2 • × C2H4O2 ( 3 ≤ × ≤ 8 ) ; the molecular weight is 3949 . 4 .
Pramlintide acetate is soluble in water .
SYMLIN is formulated as a clear , isotonic , sterile solution for subcutaneous administration .
The disposable multidose SymlinPen ® pen - injector contains 1000 mcg / mL of pramlintide ( as acetate ) .
The formulation contains 2 . 25 mg / mL of metacresol as a preservative , D - mannitol as a tonicity modifier , acetic acid , sodium acetate as pH modifiers , and water for injection .
SYMLIN has a pH of approximately 4 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pramlintide is an analog of human amylin .
Amylin is colocated with insulin in secretory granules and cosecreted with insulin by pancreatic beta cells in response to food intake .
Amylin and insulin show similar fasting and postprandial patterns in healthy individuals ( Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Secretion Profile of Amylin and Insulin in Healthy Adults [ MULTIMEDIA ] In patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes , there is reduced secretion from pancreatic beta cells of both insulin and amylin in response to food .
Amylin affects the rate of postprandial glucose appearance through a variety of mechanisms , as determined by nonclinical studies .
Amylin slows gastric emptying ( i . e . , the rate at which food is released from the stomach to the small intestine ) without altering the overall absorption of nutrients .
In addition , amylin suppresses glucagon secretion ( not normalized by insulin alone ) , which leads to suppression of endogenous glucose output from the liver .
Amylin also regulates food intake due to centrally - mediated modulation of appetite .
In human studies , pramlintide , acting as an amylin analog , slows gastric emptying , reduces the postprandial rise in plasma glucagon , and modulates satiety leading to decreased caloric intake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In clinical studies in patients with type 1 diabetes and patients with type 2 diabetes using mealtime insulin , SYMLIN reduced mean postprandial glucose concentrations , reduced glucose fluctuations , and reduced food intake .
Reduction in Postprandial Glucose Concentrations In a randomized , single - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study , 19 subjects with type 2 diabetes using insulin lispro , 19 subjects with type 1 diabetes using regular human insulin , and 21 subjects with type 1 diabetes using insulin lispro underwent mixed - meal tests .
SYMLIN administered subcutaneously immediately prior to a meal reduced plasma glucose concentrations following the meal when used with mealtime insulin ( rapid - acting insulin analogs or regular human insulin ) ( Figure 2 ) .
When rapid - acting insulin analogs were used , plasma glucose concentrations tended to rise during the interval between 150 minutes following SYMLIN injection and the next meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Figure 2 : Postprandial Plasma Glucose Profiles in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes or Type 2 Diabetes Receiving SYMLIN and Insulin Compared to Those Receiving Insulin Alone [ MULTIMEDIA ] While SYMLIN reduces postprandial glucose , clinical studies employing a controlled hypoglycemic challenge have demonstrated that SYMLIN does not alter the counter - regulatory hormonal response to insulin - induced hypoglycemia .
Likewise , in SYMLIN - treated patients , the perception of hypoglycemic symptoms was not altered with plasma glucose concentrations as low as 45 mg / dL .
In a separate clinical trial pramlintide also reduced the 24 - hour glucose fluctuations based upon 24 - hour glucose monitoring .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Reduced Food Intake A single , subcutaneous dose of 30 mcg of SYMLIN to patients with type 1 diabetes and 120 mcg of SYMLIN to patients with type 2 diabetes administered 1 hour prior to an unlimited buffet meal was associated with reductions in total caloric intake ( placebo - subtracted mean changes of ~ 21 % and 23 % , respectively ) , which occurred without decreases in meal duration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute bioavailability of pramlintide following a single subcutaneous dose of SYMLIN is approximately 30 % to 40 % .
Subcutaneous administration of different doses of SYMLIN into the abdominal area or thigh of healthy individuals showed a linear , dose - dependent increase in maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and overall exposure ( AUC ) ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Administration of Single Subcutaneous Doses of SYMLINSubcutaneous Dose ( mcg ) AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) ( pmol * min / L ) Cmax ( pmol / L ) Tmax ( min ) Elimination t ½ ( min ) 30 3750 39 21 55 60 6778 79 20 49 90 8507 102 19 51 120 11970 147 21 48 Injection of SYMLIN into the arm in obese patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes showed higher overall exposure ( 20 % - 36 % ) with greater variability ( % CV for AUC : 73 % - 106 % ) , compared with exposure after injection of SYMLIN into the abdominal area or thigh .
Relative bioavailability of pramlintide was not significantly different between obese and non - obese patients and based on BMI or skin fold thickness .
Injections administered with 6 . 0 - mm and 12 . 7 - mm needles yielded similar bioavailability .
Distribution SYMLIN does not extensively bind to red blood cells or albumin ( approximately 40 % of the drug is unbound in plasma ) .
Metabolism and Elimination In healthy individuals , the half - life of pramlintide is approximately 48 minutes .
The primary metabolite , Des - lys1 pramlintide ( 2 - 37 pramlintide ) , is biologically active in vitro .
Overall exposure ( AUC ) to pramlintide is relatively constant with repeat dosing of SYMLIN , indicating no bioaccumulation .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment No studies have been conducted in patients with end - stage renal disease .
In a single - dose pharmacokinetic study in patients with type 1 diabetes , 60 mcg of SYMLIN was administered to 4 patients with normal renal function ( ClCr > 90 mL / min ) , 9 patients with mild renal impairment ( ClCr 60 - 89 mL / min ) , 5 patients with moderate renal impairment ( ClCr 30 - 59 mL / min ) and 3 patients with severe renal impairment ( ClCr 15 - 29 mL / min ) .
No statistically significant differences were noted in total ( AUC0 - ∞ ) and peak ( Cmax ) exposure of pramlintide for mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment categories in comparison to patients with normal renal function ; although , inter - patient variability in pharmacokinetic parameters was high .
Hepatic Impairment Pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Geriatric Pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted in the geriatric population [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric The efficacy and safety of SYMLIN have not been established in the pediatric population .
The use of SYMLIN is not recommended in pediatric patients due to the risk of severe hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gender No study has been conducted to evaluate the effect of gender on pramlintide pharmacokinetics .
Race / Ethnicity No study has been conducted to evaluate the effect of ethnicity on pramlintide pharmacokinetics .
Drug Interactions Effect of Pre - Mixing SYMLIN with Insulin Pharmacokinetic profiles of pramlintide and insulins after coadministration of 30 mcg SYMLIN with different insulins ( regular , NPH , and 70 / 30 premixed formulations of recombinant human insulin ) as one subcutaneous injection , premixed in one syringe , were compared to those observed after the coadministration of SYMLIN and different insulins given as separate subcutaneous injections .
The effects of premixing on pramlintide pharmacokinetics varied across the different insulin products with a maximum decrease of 40 % in pramlintide Cmax and a maximum increase of 36 % in pramlintide AUC0 - ∞ .
Similarly , effects of premixing on insulin pharmacokinetics varied across different insulin products with a maximum increase of 15 % in insulin Cmax and up to a 20 % increase in insulin AUC0 - 600 min .
Always administer SYMLIN and insulin as separate injections and never mix [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Acetaminophen When 1000 mg acetaminophen was given within 0 , 1 , and 2 hours after a 120 mcg SYMLIN injection in patients with type 2 diabetes ( n = 24 ) , acetaminophen Cmax decreased by 29 % , 23 % , and 20 % , respectively compared to placebo .
The time to maximum plasma concentration or Tmax increased by 72 , 48 , and 48 minutes , respectively .
SYMLIN did not significantly affect acetaminophen Tmax or Cmax when acetaminophen was administered 1 to 2 hours before SYMLIN injection .
SYMLIN did not affect acetaminophen AUC regardless of the time of acetaminophen administration in relation to SYMLIN injection .
Oral Contraceptives When a single dose of a combination oral contraceptive product , containing 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol and 300 mcg norgestrel , was administered 15 minutes after SYMLIN injection ( 90 mcg dose ) in healthy female subjects , there was no statistically significant change in the Cmax and AUC of ethinyl estradiol .
However , the norgestrel Cmax was reduced by about 30 % and Tmax was delayed by 45 minutes ; there was no effect on norgestrel AUC .
The clinical relevance of this change is unknown .
Ampicillin The effect of concomitant administration of SYMLIN and ampicillin was evaluated in healthy volunteers .
The administration of a single oral 500 mg dose of ampicillin 15 minutes after a single dose of SYMLIN ( 90 mcg ) did not alter the Cmax or AUC for ampicillin .
However , the Tmax for ampicillin was delayed by approximately 60 minutes .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in CD - 1 mice with doses of 0 . 2 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 2 mg / kg / day of pramlintide ( 32 , 67 , and 159 times the exposure resulting from the human dose of 360 mcg / day based on area under the plasma concentration curve or AUC , respectively ) .
No drug - induced tumors were observed .
A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in Sprague - Dawley rats with doses of 0 . 04 , 0 . 2 , and 0 . 5 mg / kg / day of pramlintide ( 3 , 9 , and 25 times the exposure resulting from the human dose of 360 mcg / day based on AUC , respectively ) .
No drug - induced tumors were observed in any organ .
Mutagenesis Pramlintide was not mutagenic in the Ames test and did not increase chromosomal aberration in the human lymphocytes assay .
Pramlintide was not clastogenic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test or in the chromosomal aberration assay utilizing Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Impairment of Fertility Administration of 0 . 3 , 1 , or 3 mg / kg / day of pramlintide ( up to 140 times the human dose of 360 mcg / day based on exposure ) prior to and during mating had no significant effects on fertility in male or female rats .
The highest dose of 3 mg / kg / day resulted in dystocia in 8 / 12 female rats secondary to maternal toxicity and significant decreases in serum calcium levels .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A total of 2333 patients with type 1 diabetes and 1852 patients with type 2 diabetes received SYMLIN in controlled clinical trials .
14 . 1 Type 1 Diabetes The efficacy and safety of SYMLIN were evaluated in 3 ( 26 - 52 - week ) , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials in patients with type 1 diabetes .
In these studies , insulin adjustments were minimized in order to isolate the SYMLIN effect with insulin adjustments allowed , at the investigator ' s discretion , when excessive hypoglycemia was encountered .
Patients participating in these 3 trials had a mean age of 40 years , a mean duration of diabetes of 17 years , and a mean body mass index of 25 . 9 kg / m2 .
Table 6 summarizes the 6 - month results for those patients assigned to the 30 or 60 mcg dose of SYMLIN or placebo .
Table 6 : Mean ( SE ) Change in HbA1c and Insulin at 6 Months in the Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Studies in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes for the Intent - to - Treat Population Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 Variable SYMLIN ( 30 / 60 mcg ) Placebo SYMLIN ( 60 mcg ) Placebo SYMLIN ( 60 mcg TID ) SYMLIN ( 60 mcg QID ) Placebo N = 243 N = 237 N = 148 N = 147 N = 164 N = 161 N = 154 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) ( SD ) 8 . 7 ( 1 . 33 ) 8 . 9 ( 1 . 46 ) 9 . 0 ( 1 . 12 ) 9 . 1 ( 1 . 08 ) 8 . 9 ( 1 . 1 ) 8 . 9 ( 1 . 0 ) 9 . 0 ( 1 . 1 ) LSM Change in HbA1c at 6 Months Relative to Baseline ( % ) ( SE ) – 0 . 58 ( 0 . 07 ) [ 1 ] – 0 . 25 ( 0 . 07 ) – 0 . 24 ( 0 . 09 ) null + 0 . 08 ( 0 . 09 ) – 0 . 44 ( 0 . 07 ) null – 0 . 44 ( – 0 . 07 ) – 0 . 19 ( 0 . 08 ) Placebo - Subtracted LSM change in HbA1c at 6 Months ( % ) – 0 . 34 null NA – 0 . 32 null NA – 0 . 25 null – 0 . 25 null NA Mean Insulin Doses at Baseline : Mealtime / Bolus ( U ) ( SE ) NM NM 29 . 5 ( 1 . 4 ) 28 . 5 ( 1 . 1 ) 19 . 9 ( 1 . 2 ) 19 . 8 ( 2 . 2 ) 19 . 8 ( 1 . 3 ) Mean Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Mealtime / Bolus ( SE ) NM NM – 2 . 0 ( 0 . 5 ) null + 0 . 3 ( 0 . 4 ) + 0 . 6 ( 0 . 8 ) – 0 . 8 ( 0 . 7 ) + 0 . 3 ( 1 . 4 ) Mean Insulin Doses at Baseline : Basal ( U ) ( SE ) NM NM 21 . 0 ( 1 . 1 ) 21 . 0 ( 1 . 1 ) 33 . 1 ( 1 . 7 ) 33 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) 31 . 9 ( 1 . 8 ) Mean Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Basal ( SE ) NM NM + 0 . 2 ( 0 . 3 ) – 0 . 3 ( 0 . 4 ) – 0 . 1 ( 0 . 9 ) – 0 . 6 ( 0 . 7 ) + 0 . 6 ( 0 . 7 ) SD : standard deviation ; LSM : least squares mean ; SE : standard error ; U : Units ; NM : not measured ; TID : 3 times a day ; QID : 4 times a day .
[ 1 ] Statistically significant reduction compared to placebo ( p - value < 0 . 05 ) .
In the three studies , from a mean baseline body weight of 75 . 3 kg , 73 . 3 kg , and 76 . 6 kg , respectively , after randomization there were corresponding mean reductions of – 0 . 8 kg , – 1 . 6 kg , and – 1 . 3 kg ( 60 mcg TID ) and – 0 . 8 kg ( 60 mcg QID ) in the SYMLIN treatment group compared to mean increases of + 0 . 8 kg , + 0 . 4 kg , and + 0 . 7 kg in the placebo treatment group .
SYMLIN Dose - Titration Study A dose - titration study of SYMLIN was conducted in patients with type 1 diabetes who had a mean age of 41 years , a mean duration of diabetes of 20 years , and a mean body mass index of 28 kg / m2 .
Patients with a mean baseline HbA1c of 8 . 1 % ( range 6 . 5 % - 10 . 7 % ) were randomized to receive either SYMLIN or placebo , both administered before major meals as add - on to insulin therapy .
SYMLIN was initiated at a dose of 15 mcg and titrated upward at weekly intervals in 15 mcg increments to maintenance doses of 30 or 60 mcg , based on whether patients experienced nausea .
Upon initiation of SYMLIN , the insulin dose ( mostly the mealtime insulin ) was reduced by 30 % to 50 % in order to minimize the occurrence of hypoglycemia .
Once the maintenance dose of SYMLIN was reached , insulin dose adjustments were made according to standard clinical practice , based on pre - and post - meal blood glucose monitoring .
Table 7 summarizes the 6 - month results for the dose - titration study .
Table 7 : Mean ( SE ) Change in HbA1c and Insulin at 6 Months in the Dose - Titration Study in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes for Intent - to - Treat PopulationVariable SYMLIN ( all doses ) Placebo N = 148 N = 147 Mean Baseline HbA1c ( % ) , ( SD ) 8 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) 8 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) LSM Change in HbA1c at Week 29 Relative to Baseline ( % ) – 0 . 47 ( 0 . 07 ) – 0 . 49 ( 0 . 07 ) Placebo - Subtracted LSM change in HbA1c at 6 Months ( % ) ( SE ) 0 . 03 ( 0 . 10 ) NA Mean Insulin Doses at Baseline : Mealtime / Bolus ( U ) ( SD ) 26 . 5 ( 14 . 2 ) 28 . 4 ( 16 . 3 ) Mean Percent Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Mealtime / Bolus ( SE ) – 7 . 1 ( 0 . 9 ) [ 1 ] – 2 . 4 ( 1 . 2 ) Mean Insulin Doses at Baseline : Basal ( U ) ( SD ) 29 . 4 ( 19 . 6 ) 28 . 1 ( 17 . 5 ) Mean Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Basal ( SE ) + 1 . 4 ( 0 . 9 ) + 2 . 6 ( 1 . 2 ) SD : standard deviation ; LSM : least squares mean ; SE : standard error ; U : Units .
[ 1 ] Statistically significant reduction compared to placebo ( p - value < 0 . 05 ) .
In the dose titration study , from mean baseline body weight of 81 . 5 kg , after randomization there was a mean reduction of – 1 . 33 kg in the SYMLIN treatment group compared to a mean increase of + 1 . 25 kg in the placebo treatment group .
14 . 2 Type 2 Diabetes The efficacy and safety of SYMLIN were evaluated in 2 ( a 26 - week and a 52 - week ) randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials in patients with type 2 diabetes .
These trials enrolled patients with inadequate glycemic control ( HbA1c > 8 % ) on fixed dose insulin .
In both trials , SYMLIN or placebo was added to existing insulin therapies .
Concomitant use of a sulfonylurea and / or metformin was permitted .
Insulin doses were to be kept as stable as possible throughout the treatment period to isolate the SYMLIN effect .
Patients participating in these 2 trials had a mean age of 57 years and a mean duration of diabetes of 13 years .
Mean body mass index was 32 . 9 kg / m2 for SYMLIN and 32 . 2 kg / m2 for placebo .
Table 8 summarizes the 6 - month results for each trial for those patients assigned to the 120 mcg dose of SYMLIN and placebo .
Table 8 : Mean ( SE ) Change in HbA1c and Insulin at 6 Months in the Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Studies in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes for the Intent - to - Treat Population Trial 1 Trial 2 Variable SYMLIN ( 120 mcg ) Placebo SYMLIN ( 120 mcg ) Placebo N = 166 N = 161 N = 126 N = 123 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) ( SD ) 9 . 0 ( 0 . 08 ) 9 . 3 ( 0 . 10 ) 9 . 3 ( 1 . 1 ) 9 . 5 ( 1 . 4 ) LSM Change in HbA1c at 6 Months Relative to Baseline ( % ) ( SE ) – 0 . 66 ( 0 . 08 ) [ 1 ] – 0 . 32 ( 0 . 09 ) – 0 . 36 ( 0 . 10 ) null – 0 . 06 ( 0 . 10 ) Placebo - Subtracted LSM change in HbA1c at 6 Months ( % ) – 0 . 34 null NA – 0 . 30 null NA Insulin Dose at Baseline : Mealtime / Bolus ( U ) ( SE ) 20 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) 21 . 4 ( 1 . 5 ) 22 . 2 ( 1 . 8 ) 22 . 0 ( 1 . 6 ) Mean Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Mealtime / Bolus ( SE ) – 0 . 7 ( 0 . 5 ) – 0 . 3 ( 0 . 6 ) – 0 . 0 ( 0 . 8 ) null + 1 . 6 ( 0 . 7 ) Insulin Dose at Baseline : Basal ( U ) ( SE ) 48 . 0 ( 1 . 9 ) 52 . 4 ( 2 . 1 ) 33 . 2 ( 1 . 4 ) 30 . 9 ( 1 . 6 ) Mean Change in Insulin Doses ( U ) at 6 Months : Basal ( SE ) + 0 . 01 ( 0 . 8 ) + 1 . 1 ( 1 . 0 ) – 1 . 2 ( 0 . 8 ) + 1 . 3 ( 0 . 7 ) SD : standard deviation ; LSM : least squares mean ; SE : standard error ; U : Units .
[ 1 ] dStatistically significant reduction compared to placebo ( p - value < 0 . 05 ) .
In both studies , from a mean baseline body weight of 96 . 7 kg , and 85 . 6 kg , respectively , after randomization there were corresponding mean reductions of – 1 . 4 kg , and – 1 . 6 kg in the SYMLIN treatment group compared to mean increases of + 0 . 3 kg , and + 0 . 1 kg in the placebo treatment group .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SYMLIN Injection is available in the following package sizes : • • SymlinPen ® 60 pen - injector , containing 1000 mcg / mL pramlintide ( as acetate ) Two 1 . 5 mL disposable multidose pen - injectors ( NDC 0310 - 6615 - 02 ) • • SymlinPen ® 120 pen - injector , containing 1000 mcg / mL pramlintide ( as acetate ) Two 2 . 7 mL disposable multidose pen - injectors ( NDC 0310 - 6627 - 02 ) Storage and Handling SYMLIN pen - injectors not in use : Refrigerate ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ; 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) , and protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not use if product has been frozen .
Unused SYMLIN ( opened or unopened ) should not be used after the expiration ( EXP ) date printed on the carton and the label .
SYMLIN pen - injectors in use : After first use , refrigerate or keep at a temperature not greater than 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for 30 days .
Use within 30 days , whether or not refrigerated .
Storage conditions are summarized in Table 9 .
Table 9 : Storage ConditionsDosage Form Unopened ( not in use ) Refrigerated Open ( in use ) Refrigerated or Temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) 1 . 5 mL pen - injector Until Expiration Date Use Within 30 Days 2 . 7 mL pen - injector 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Risk of Hypoglycemia Discuss the risk and consequences of hypoglycemia and approaches to minimize its occurrence .
Inform patients about the importance of self - management practices including glucose monitoring and timing of dosing .
In addition , reinforce the importance of adherence to meal planning , physical activity , recognition and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , and assessment of diabetes complications .
Never Share a SymlinPen Between Patients Advise patients that they must never share a SymlinPen with another person , even if the needle is changed , because doing so carries a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
Never Mix SYMLIN and Insulin Inform patients that SYMLIN and insulin should always be administered as separate injections and never be mixed .
Show patients how to administer SYMLIN using the pen - injector .
Advise patients to use a new needle for each injection .
Instructions Instruct patients on the proper injection technique and proper storage of SYMLIN .
Refer patients to the SYMLIN Medication Guide and Patient Instructions for Use for additional information .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , DE 19850 SYMLIN and SymlinPen are registered trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
MEDICATION GUIDE SYMLIN ® ( SĬM - lĭn ) ( pramlintide acetate ) injection for subcutaneous use Read this Medication Guide and Instructions for Use that come with your SYMLIN before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about SYMLIN ?
SYMLIN can cause serious side effects , including : • • severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Even when SYMLIN is carefully added to your mealtime insulin therapy , your blood sugar may drop too low , especially if you have type 1 diabetes .
If this severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) happens , it is seen within 3 hours after a SYMLIN injection .
Symptoms of severe low blood sugar and low blood sugar include : • olightheadedness • odizziness • oshakiness • osweating • ohunger • ofast heartbeat • otrouble concentrating or confusion • ochange in vision • oheadache • oirritability • odrowsiness People who have severely low blood sugar have had injuries while driving their car , operating heavy machinery or doing other dangerous activities .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about a plan to treat low blood sugar .
You should have fast - acting sugar ( such as hard candy , glucose tablets , juice ) or glucagon for injection with you at all times .
Call your healthcare provider if you have severe low blood sugar or if you have low blood sugar more often than normal .
• You have a higher chance of getting severe low blood sugar if you : • odo not follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions to reduce your insulin use before meals • ouse more SYMLIN or insulin than prescribed by your healthcare provider • ochange your insulin dose without checking your blood sugar • oeat less food than your usual meal • oare sick and cannot eat • oare more active than usual • ohave a low blood sugar level before eating • odrink alcohol • SYMLIN is used with insulin to lower blood sugar , especially high blood sugar that happens after meals .
• SYMLIN is taken at mealtimes .
The use of SYMLIN does not replace your daily insulin but may lower the amount of insulin you need , especially before meals .
Do not share your SymlinPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
What is SYMLIN ?
SYMLIN is an injectable prescription medicine used to treat adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes to control blood sugar .
SYMLIN is used when your mealtime insulin dose has not controlled your blood sugar well enough .
It is not known if SYMLIN is safe and effective in children .
Who should not use SYMLIN ?
Do not use SYMLIN if you : • • are allergic to SYMLIN or any ingredients in SYMLIN .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in SYMLIN .
• • cannot tell when your blood sugar is low ( hypoglycemia unawareness ) • • have a stomach problem called gastroparesis .
This is when your stomach does not empty as fast as it should .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using SYMLIN ?
Before you use SYMLIN , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if SYMLIN will harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide how to best control your blood sugar levels during pregnancy .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if SYMLIN passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide about the best way to feed your baby if you are using SYMLIN .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
SYMLIN slows stomach emptying and can affect medicines that need to pass through the stomach quickly .
How should I use SYMLIN ?
• • Read the “ Instructions for Use ” and the Medication Guide and that come with your SYMLIN for information about the right way to use SYMLIN .
• • Use SYMLIN exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Your healthcare provider will tell you how much SYMLIN to use and when to use it .
• • Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• • If you stop taking SYMLIN for any reason , such as surgery or illness , talk to your healthcare provider about how to re - start SYMLIN .
• • To reduce the risk of hypoglycemia , it is important that you plan your meals and physical activity every day while you use SYMLIN .
Plan for what you will eat and when you will eat your meals .
• • The amount of SYMLIN you use will depend on whether you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes .
• • The way you inject SYMLIN is similar to the way you inject insulin .
Inject SYMLIN under the skin of your stomach area ( abdomen ) or upper leg ( thigh ) .
Inject SYMLIN at a site that is more than 2 inches away from your insulin injection .
Do not inject SYMLIN and insulin in the same site .
• • To help reduce the chances of getting a reaction at the injection site , allow SYMLIN to come to room temperature before injecting .
• • Use a new needle for each SYMLIN injection .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
• • Never mix SYMLIN and insulin .
Insulin can affect SYMLIN when they are mixed together .
• • Do not use SYMLIN if the liquid looks cloudy .
• • If you take more than your prescribed dose of SYMLIN , you may get nauseous or vomit , and may not be able to eat the amount of food you usually eat .
If you take more SYMLIN than your prescribed dose , pay careful attention to the amount of insulin you use because you may be at more risk for low blood sugar .
Contact your healthcare provider for guidance .
• • If you miss or forget a dose of SYMLIN , wait until the next meal and take your usual dose of SYMLIN at that meal .
Do not take more than your usual dose of SYMLIN .
• • Do not share your SymlinPen with other people , even if the needle is changed . You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Using SYMLIN and insulin with type 1 diabetes : • • When starting SYMLIN , you will need to reduce your dose of mealtime insulin .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how to reduce your dose of mealtime insulin the right way .
• • You must check your blood sugar as often as your healthcare provider tells you to , which may include before and after every meal and at bedtime .
• • The usual starting dose of SYMLIN for people who have type 1 diabetes is 15 micrograms ( mcg ) injected under your skin .
• • Inject SYMLIN under your skin ( subcutaneously ) just before a major meal .
A major meal must have at least 250 calories or 30 grams of carbohydrate .
• • If you have not had any nausea for 3 days or more after your dose of SYMLIN is changed , your healthcare provider may tell you to slowly increase your dose of SYMLIN .
Do not increase your dose of SYMLIN unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea or low blood sugar after your dose of SYMLIN is changed .
Your healthcare provider will tell you what to do .
• • Your healthcare provider may make changes to your insulin dose to better control your blood sugar .
Your healthcare provider should tell you what the right dose of insulin is for you .
Using SYMLIN and insulin with type 2 diabetes : • • When starting SYMLIN , you will need to reduce your dose of mealtime insulin .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how to reduce your dose of mealtime insulin the right way .
• • You must check your blood sugar as often as your healthcare provider advises you to , which may include before and after every meal and at bedtime .
• • The usual starting dose of SYMLIN for people who have type 2 diabetes is 60 micrograms ( mcg ) injected under your skin .
• • Inject SYMLIN under your skin ( subcutaneously ) just before a major meal .
A major meal must have at least 250 calories or 30 grams of carbohydrate .
• • If you have not had any nausea for 3 days or more after your dose of SYMLIN is changed , your healthcare provider may tell you to increase your dose of SYMLIN .
Do not increase your dose of SYMLIN unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have nausea or low blood sugar after your dose of SYMLIN is changed .
Your healthcare provider will tell you what to do .
• • Your healthcare provider may make changes to your insulin dose to better control your blood sugar .
Your healthcare provider should tell you what the right dose of insulin is for you .
What should I avoid while taking SYMLIN ?
• • See “ What is the most important information I should know about SYMLIN ? ”
• • Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how SYMLIN affects you .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the activities you should avoid .
• • Alcohol .
Drinking alcohol may increase your chances of getting severe low blood sugar .
What are the possible side effects of SYMLIN ?
SYMLIN may cause serious side effects , including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about SYMLIN ? ”
• • injection site reactions .
SYMLIN may cause bruising , swelling , or itching at the injection site .
The most common side effects of SYMLIN include : • • nausea • • vomiting • • decreased appetite • • stomach pain • • headache Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of SYMLIN .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store SYMLIN ?
Unopened SYMLIN : • • Keep SYMLIN in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) , until you are ready to use it .
• • Do not freeze .
Do not use SYMLIN if it has been frozen .
• • Keep unopened SYMLIN out of the light .
Opened SYMLIN : • • Keep SYMLIN either in the refrigerator or at room temperature between 36 ° F to 86 ° F ( 2 ° C to 30 ° C ) for up to 30 days .
• • Throw away used SYMLIN after 30 days of use , even if the pen still has medicine in it .
• • Do not use SYMLIN ( opened or unopened ) after the expiration ( EXP ) date printed on the carton and the label .
Keep SYMLIN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of SYMLIN : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use SYMLIN for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SYMLIN to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about SYMLIN .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about SYMLIN that is written for health professionals .
More information , go to www . SYMLIN . com or call 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 .
What are the ingredients in SYMLIN ?
Active ingredient : pramlintide acetate Inactive ingredients : metacresol , D - mannitol , acetic acid , and sodium acetate This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
SYMLIN and SymlinPen are registered trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , DE 19850 Revised : February 2015 Instructions for Use SymlinPen ® ( SĬM - lĭnPεn ) 120 ( pramlintide acetate ) Pen - Injector Read the Medication Guide and these Instructions for Use before you start using SYMLIN and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
Do not share your SymlinPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
Important : • • Ask your healthcare provider about your dose of SYMLIN and how to inject SYMLIN the right way before you inject it for the first time .
• • Use a new needle for each SYMLIN injection .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people . You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
• • This SymlinPen is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired without the assistance of a person trained in the proper use of this SymlinPen .
• • Check SYMLIN before you use it .
SYMLIN should be clear and colorless .
Do not use SYMLIN if the liquid looks cloudy or colored or has lumps or particles in it .
• • Your SymlinPen may look empty because SYMLIN is a clear and colorless liquid .
• • Small bubbles will not hurt you or affect your dose of SYMLIN .
• • Do not transfer SYMLIN from your SymlinPen into a syringe .
• • Do not inject your dose of SYMLIN if you : • ∘ have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • ∘ do not plan to eat .
Do not inject SYMLIN if you skip a meal .
Wait until the next meal and take your usual dose of SYMLIN at that meal .
• ∘ plan to eat a meal with less than 250 calories or 30 grams of carbohydrate • ∘ are sick and cannot eat your usual meal • ∘ are having surgery or a medical test where you cannot eat • • If you take more than your prescribed dose of SYMLIN , you may get nauseous or vomit , and may not be able to eat the amount of food you usually eat .
If you take more SYMLIN than your prescribed dose , pay careful attention to the amount of insulin you use because you may be at more risk for low blood sugar .
Contact your healthcare provider for guidance .
Supplies you will need to give each injection of SYMLIN : • • SymlinPen ® 120 Pen - Injector ( Pen ) ( See Figure A ) • • a new SymlinPen compatible needle ( See Figure B ) .
Pen needles are not included .
Use 29 , 30 , or 31 gauge disposable pen needles .
Ask your healthcare provider which needle gauge and length is best for you .
• • alcohol swab • • 1 sharps container for throwing away used SymlinPens and needles .
See “ Disposing of used SymlinPens and needles ” at the end of these Instructions for Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure B ) Preparing your SymlinPen : • • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• • Check the SymlinPen label before each use to make sure you have the right SymlinPen .
• • Check the expiration date ( EXP ) on the SymlinPen label ( See Figure A ) .
Do not use the SymlinPen past the expiration date printed on the label .
• • Check the liquid in your SymlinPen to make sure you have enough SYMLIN left in your SymlinPen to load your correct dose .
• ∘ The lines on the cartridge show about how much SYMLIN is left in your SymlinPen .
When the top of the plunger is at the thickest line on the cartridge , your SymlinPen is almost empty ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure C ) Attaching a Needle : Step 1 : • • Pull the pen cap straight off the SymlinPen and wipe the rubber seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 2 : • • Get a new needle .
• • Peel off the paper tab and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 3 : • • Push the capped needle straight onto the end of the SymlinPen and twist the needle clockwise until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 4 : • • Pull off the outer needle cover .
Do not throw it away .
• • Pull off the inner needle cover and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G New Pen Setup - Priming your SymlinPen : Note : • • Steps 5 through 7 are only required if you are using your SymlinPen for the first time .
Do not repeat Step 1 through 4 before each dose .
• ∘ If you have already primed your SymlinPen , go to Step 8 for instructions about giving your scheduled dose .
• • Step 5 : • • Turn the dial to select 60 mcg .
• ∘ You should see the number 60 in the window .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure H • Step 6 : • • Pull the knob straight out as far as it will go .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pulling the knob out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure I • Step 7 : • • Hold your SymlinPen with the needle pointing up .
Push the knob all the way in until it stops .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pushing the knob in .
• ∘ A stream of liquid should be seen from the needle .
• ▪ If you do not see a stream of liquid , repeat Step 6 and Step 7 ( you may repeat up to 3 times ) .
• ▪ If you still do not see a stream of liquid after 3 attempts , change the needle and repeat Step 6 and Step 7 .
If you still do not see a stream of liquid , call Information Support .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure J Selecting your routine dose : Step 8 : • • Turn the dial to select the correct dose you need to inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K Step 9 : • • Pull the knob straight out as far as it will go .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pulling the knob out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L Step 10 : • • Turn the knob forward or backward until you see the correct dose you need to inject .
• • Check that you see the line to make sure you have loaded your full dose .
You should see a line , arrow , and the number of your dose .
• ∘ If you do not see a line , arrow , and the number of your dose , do not inject the dose .
Point the needle away from you , push the knob all the way in until it stops , then repeat Step 8 to Step 10 .
• ∘ Once the knob has been pulled out , the dial will not move and you cannot reset your dose .
If correct dose was not selected , push in the knob to discard the dose and repeat the instructions .
If the knob is pushed in all the way , and you cannot turn the dial , call Information Support .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure M [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure N Giving your SYMLIN injection : • • Inject your SYMLIN exactly as your doctor has shown you .
• • Change ( rotate ) injection sites for SYMLIN .
Inject SYMLIN at a site that is more than 2 inches away from your insulin injection .
Do not inject SYMLIN and insulin in the same site .
• • To help reduce the chances of getting a reaction at the injection site , let SYMLIN come to room temperature before you inject it .
• • Step 11 : • • Choose your injection site .
• • SYMLIN is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) or upper leg ( thigh ) .
• • Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab , and let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure O • Step 12 : • • Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure P • Step 13 : • • Put your thumb on the knob and push the knob all the way in until it stops .
You should hear the “ clicking ” as you push and hold the knob in and slowly count to 10 to give your full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure Q Step 14 : • • Pull the needle out of your skin .
• • If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• ∘ A drop or 2 of liquid on the needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• ∘ If you see more than 2 drops , you may not have received your full dose .
Do not inject another dose .
Talk to your doctor for help .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure R Step 15 : • • Carefully replace the outer needle cover by pushing straight onto the end of the SymlinPen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure S Step 16 : • • Unscrew the capped needle counterclockwise with the outer needle cover on it and throw it away .
• • Do not store the SymlinPen with the needle attached or with the knob pulled out to prevent air bubbles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure T Step 17 : • • Replace the pen cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure U After your injection : • • Put your used needles and SymlinPen in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• ∘ If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • ▪ made of a heavy - duty plastic , • ▪ can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • ▪ upright and stable during use , • ▪ leak - resistant , and • ▪ properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• ∘ When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and SymlinPen .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • ∘ Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store my SymlinPen ?
Unused SymlinPens : • • Keep SYMLIN in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) , until you are ready to use it .
• • Do not freeze .
Do not use SYMLIN if it has been frozen .
• • Keep unopened SYMLIN out of the light .
Used SymlinPens : • • Store SymlinPens in the refrigerator or at room temperature between 36 ° F to 86 ° F ( 2 ° C to 30 ° C ) for up to 30 days .
• • Throw away used SymlinPens after 30 days of use , even if a used SymlinPen still has medicine in it .
• • Do not use SymlinPens ( opened or unopened ) after the expiration ( EXP ) date printed on the carton and the label .
General information about the safe and effective use of SymlinPens .
• • If you drop your SymlinPen , you should prime it before you use it to make sure your SymlinPen works .
• • Do not use your SymlinPen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• • Keep SYMLIN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• • It is not known if SYMLIN is safe and effective in children .
If you are having problems using your SymlinPen , go to www . SYMLIN . com or call Information Support at 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 .
These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
SYMLIN and SymlinPen are registered trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , DE 19850 Revised : March 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use SymlinPen ® ( SĬM - lĭnPεn ) 60 ( pramlintide acetate ) Pen - Injector Read the Medication Guide and these Instructions for Use before you start using SYMLIN and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
Do not share your SymlinPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
Important : • • Ask your healthcare provider about your dose of SYMLIN and how to inject SYMLIN the right way before you inject it for the first time .
• • Use a new needle for each SYMLIN injection .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
• • This SymlinPen is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired without the assistance of a person trained in the proper use of this SymlinPen .
• • Check SYMLIN before you use it .
SYMLIN should be clear and colorless .
Do not use SYMLIN if the liquid looks cloudy or colored or has lumps or particles in it .
• • Your SymlinPen may look empty because SYMLIN is a clear and colorless liquid .
• • Small bubbles will not hurt you or affect your dose of SYMLIN .
• • Do not transfer SYMLIN from your SymlinPen into a syringe .
• • Do not inject your dose of SYMLIN if you : • ∘ have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • ∘ do not plan to eat .
Do not inject SYMLIN if you skip a meal .
Wait until the next meal and take your usual dose of SYMLIN at that meal .
• ∘ plan to eat a meal with less than 250 calories or 30 grams of carbohydrate • ∘ are sick and cannot eat your usual meal • ∘ are having surgery or a medical test where you cannot eat • • If you take more than your prescribed dose of SYMLIN , you may get nauseous or vomit , and may not be able to eat the amount of food you usually eat .
If you take more SYMLIN than your prescribed dose , pay careful attention to the amount of insulin you use because you may be at more risk for low blood sugar .
Contact your healthcare provider for guidance .
Supplies you will need to give each injection of SYMLIN : • • SymlinPen ® 60 Pen - Injector ( Pen ) ( See Figure A ) • • a new SymlinPen compatible needle ( See Figure B ) .
Pen needles are not included .
Use 29 , 30 , or 31 gauge disposable pen needles .
Ask your healthcare provider which needle gauge and length is best for you .
• • alcohol swab • • 1 sharps container for throwing away used SymlinPens and needles .
See “ Disposing of used SymlinPens and needles ” at the end of these Instructions for Use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure B ) Preparing your SymlinPen : • • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• • Check the SymlinPen label before each use to make sure you have the right SymlinPen .
• • Check the expiration date ( EXP ) on the SymlinPen label ( See Figure A ) .
Do not use the SymlinPen past the expiration date printed on the label .
• • Check the liquid in your SymlinPen to make sure you have enough SYMLIN left in your SymlinPen to load your correct dose .
• ∘ The lines on the cartridge show about how much SYMLIN is left in your SymlinPen .
When the top of the plunger is at the thickest line on the cartridge , your SymlinPen is almost empty ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure C ) Attaching a Needle : Step 1 : • • Pull the pen cap straight off the SymlinPen and wipe the rubber seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Step 2 : • • Get a new needle • • Peel off the paper tab and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 3 : • • Push the capped needle straight onto the end of the SymlinPen and twist the needle clockwise until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F Step 4 : • • Pull off the outer needle cover .
Do not throw it away .
• • Pull off the inner needle cover and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G New Pen Setup - Priming your SymlinPen : Note : • • Steps 5 through 7 are only required if you are using your SymlinPen for the first time .
Do not repeat Step 1 through 4 before each dose .
• • If you have already primed your SymlinPen , go to Step 8 for instructions about giving your scheduled dose .
Step 5 : • • Turn the dial to select 15 mcg .
• ∘ You should see the number 15 in the window .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H Step 6 : • • Pull the knob straight out as far as it will go .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pulling the knob out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I Step 7 : • • Hold your SymlinPen with the needle pointing up .
Push the knob all the way in until it stops .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pushing the knob in .
• ∘ A stream of liquid should be seen from the needle .
• ▪ If you do not see a stream of liquid , repeat Step 6 and Step 7 ( you may repeat up to 6 times ) .
• ▪ If you still do not see a stream of liquid after 6 attempts , change the needle and repeat Step 6 and Step 7 .
If you still do not see a stream of liquid , call Information Support .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J Selecting your routine dose : Step 8 : • • Turn the dial to select the correct dose you need to inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K Step 9 : • • Pull the knob straight out as far as it will go .
You should hear a “ clicking ” sound while you are pulling the knob out .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L Step 10 : • • Turn the knob forward or backward until you see the correct dose you need to inject .
• • Check that you see the line to make sure you have loaded your full dose .
You should see a line , arrow , and the number of your dose .
• ∘ If you do not see a line , arrow , and the number of your dose , do not inject the dose .
Point the needle away from you , push the knob all the way in until it stops , then repeat Step 8 to Step 10 .
• ∘ Once the knob has been pulled out , the dial will not move and you cannot reset your dose .
If correct dose was not selected , push in the knob to discard the dose and repeat the instructions .
If the knob is pushed in all the way , and you cannot turn the dial , call Information Support .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure M [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure N Giving your SYMLIN injection : • • Inject your SYMLIN exactly as your doctor has shown you .
• • Change ( rotate ) injection sites for SYMLIN .
Inject SYMLIN at a site that is more than 2 inches away from your insulin injection .
Do not inject SYMLIN and insulin in the same site .
• • To help reduce the chances of getting a reaction at the injection site , let SYMLIN come to room temperature before you inject it .
Step 11 : • • Choose your injection site .
• • SYMLIN is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) or upper leg ( thigh ) .
• • Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab , and let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure O Step 12 : • • Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure P Step 13 : • • Put your thumb on the knob and push the knob all the way in until it stops .
You should hear the “ clicking ” as you push and hold the knob in and slowly count to 10 to give your full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure Q Step 14 : • • Pull the needle out of your skin .
• • If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• ∘ A drop or 2 of liquid on the needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• ∘ If you see more than 2 drops , you may not have received your full dose .
Do not inject another dose .
Talk to your doctor for help .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure R Step 15 : • • Carefully replace the outer needle cover by pushing straight onto the end of the SymlinPen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure S Step 16 : • • Unscrew the capped needle counterclockwise with the outer needle cover on it and throw it away .
• • Do not store the SymlinPen with the needle attached or with the knob pulled out to prevent air bubbles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure T Step 17 : • • Replace the pen cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure U After your injection : • • Put your used needles and SymlinPen in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• ∘ If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • ▪ made of a heavy - duty plastic , • ▪ can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • ▪ upright and stable during use , • ▪ leak - resistant , and • ▪ properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• ∘ When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and SymlinPen .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • ∘ Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store my SymlinPen ?
Unused SymlinPens : • • Keep SYMLIN in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) , until you are ready to use it .
• • Do not freeze .
Do not use SYMLIN if it has been frozen .
• • Keep unopened SYMLIN out of the light .
Used SymlinPens : • • Store SymlinPens in the refrigerator or at room temperature between 36 ° F to 86 ° F ( 2 ° C to 30 ° C ) for up to 30 days .
• • Throw away used SymlinPens after 30 days of use , even if a used SymlinPen still has medicine in it .
• • Do not use SymlinPens ( opened or unopened ) after the expiration ( EXP ) date printed on the carton and the label .
General information about the safe and effective use of SymlinPens .
• • If you drop your SymlinPen , you should prime it before you use it to make sure your SymlinPen works .
• • Do not use your SymlinPen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• • Keep SYMLIN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• • It is not known if SYMLIN is safe and effective in children .
• • If you are having problems using your SymlinPen , go to www . SYMLIN . com or call Information Support at 1 - 800 - 236 - 9933 .
These Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
SYMLIN and SymlinPen are registered trademarks of the AstraZeneca group of companies .
Distributed by : AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Wilmington , DE 19850 Revised : March 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 1 . 5 mL pen - injector SymlinPen ® 60 ( pramlintide acetate ) pen - injector For Single Patient Use Only For doses of 15 mcg , 30 mcg , 45 mcg , and 60 mcg .
Two disposable multidose pen - injectors pramlintide acetate 1000 mcg / mL , 1 . 5 mL Subcutaneous use only .
Pen needles not included .
Use 29 , 30 , or 31 gauge disposable pen needles .
Ask your healthcare provider which needle gauge and length is best for you .
Rx Only AstraZeneca [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 2 . 7 mL pen - injector SymlinPen ® 120 ( pramlintide acetate ) pen - injector Two 2 . 7 mL disposable multidose pen - injectors 60 • 120 mcg NDC 0310 - 6627 - 02 For Single Patient Use Only For doses of 60 mcg and 120 mcg .
Two disposable multidose pen - injectors pramlintide acetate 1000 mcg / mL , 2 . 7 mL Subcutaneous use only .
Pen needles not included .
Use 29 , 30 , or 31 gauge disposable pen needles .
Ask your healthcare provider which needle gauge and length is best for you .
Rx Only AstraZeneca [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
