DRUG FACTS ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Mineral oil 14 % Petrolatum 71 . 9 % Phenylephrine HCl 0 . 25 % PURPOSES Protectant Protectant Vasoconstrictor USES • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful WARNINGS For external and / or intrarectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • introduction of applicator into the rectum causes additional pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment .
• when first opening the tube , puncture foil seal with top end of cap • apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning or after each bowel movement • intrarectal use : • remove cover from applicator , attach applicator to tube , lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum • thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover • also apply ointment to external area • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor OTHER INFORMATION store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , corn oil , glycerin , lanolin , lanolin alcohols , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin , propylparaben , purified water , shark liver oil , thymus vulgaris ( thyme ) flower / leaf oil , tocopherols excipient , white wax QUESTIONS ?
To report adverse drug event call : ( 800 ) 616 - 2417 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 56 . 8 g Tube Carton HEMORRHOIDAL OINTMENT TAMPER - EVIDENT : Do not use if printed " safety sealed " overwrap is broken or missing .
• Prompt , Soothing Relief from painful burning , itching and discomfort • Shrinks swollen hemorrhoidal tissue • Protects irritated tissue • Relieves internal and external discomfort NET WT 2 OZ ( 56 . 8 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
