Active ingredients ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Benzalkonium chloride , 0 . 13 % Benzocaine , 5 % Purpose PURPOSE Topical Antiseptic Uses USES • to treat cold sores / fever blisters Warnings WARNINGS For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) , headache , rapid heart beat , shortness of breath , dizziness or lightheadedness , fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product • more than 3 times per day • longer than one week unless directed by a physician • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a dentist or physician if • condition persists or worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days Ask a physician if • used to treat deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns • you are pregnant or nursing a baby When using this product You may feel a brief stinging sensation when you apply it .
The sting should go away in a short time .
Keep out of reach of children KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN In case of overdose , or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions • Slide - off to remove the protective blue paper cover and slide it on the other end - opposite the white applicator tip • Squeeze the vial firmly on the arrow shown on the blue paper cap until you hear it snap • Hold with the white applicator tip down to allow the medication to saturate the tip • To minimize pain during application gently touch the site of the cold sore with the saturated applicator tip .
Once the area is numb , rub the site of the cold sore and the surrounding area .
Rub firmly to allow the treatment to deeply penetrate the skin .
• To treat most cold sores , multiple treatments may be required • Discard after use • For best results ensure that lip area is free of lip preparations , lotions , ointments , residual beverages , or cosmetics , including lipstick Adults and children over 2 years of age : Do not use this more than 3 times per day Children between 2 year and 12 years of age : Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age : Do not use OTHER INFORMATION • Store at room temperature • The ingredients in toothpaste , soft drinks , and some fruit juices can deactivate the active ingredient in Orajel Single Dose .
• For best results , avoid brushing your teeth with toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for one hour after applying the drug .
• Do not use if package is torn , cut or otherwise damaged Inactive ingredients INACTIVE INGREDIENTS isopropyl alcohol ( 70 % v / v ) , water Questions or comments ?
Questions or comments call us at 1 800 952 5080 Monday through Friday ET or visit our website at www orajel com Principal Display Panel Fast - Acting Orajel ™ Instant Pain Relief Coldsore Patented Treatment Topical Antiseptic / Topical Anethetic Contains 4 treatment vials NET 0 . 08 FL OZ ( 2 . 4 mL ) Total [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
