Changes of Address 08 / 2008 Address of adverse reactions 07 / 2010 Change of distributor 07 / 2014 Manufactured For / Under License From 07 / 2014 Cystadane is a methylating agent indicated for the treatment of homocystinuria to decrease elevated homocysteine blood levels .
Included within the category of homocystinuria are ( 1 ) : • Cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency • 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) deficiency • Cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) defect 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cystadane ® ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) is indicated for the treatment of homocystinuria to decrease elevated homocysteine blood levels .
Included within the category of homocystinuria are : • Cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency • 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( MTHFR ) deficiency • Cobalamin cofactor metabolism ( cbl ) defect • Usual dose in adult and pediatric patients is 6 grams per day , administered orally in divided doses of 3 grams two times a day .
( 2 ) • In children less than 3 years of age , may initiate dosing at 100 mg / kg / day , divided in twice daily doses , and then increased weekly by 50 mg / kg increments .
( 2 ) • Dose can be gradually increased until plasma total homocysteine is undetectable or present only in small amounts .
( 2 ) • Monitor patient response by plasma homocysteine levels .
( 2 ) • Prescribed amount of Cystadane should be measured with the measuring scoop provided and then dissolved in 4 to 6 ounces of water , juice , milk , or formula , or mixed with food for immediate ingestion .
( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage The usual dosage in adult and pediatric patients is 6 grams per day administered orally in divided doses of 3 grams twice daily .
In pediatric patients less than 3 years of age , dosage may be started at 100 mg / kg / day divided in twice daily doses , and then increased weekly by 50 mg / kg increments .
Therapy with Cystadane should be directed by physicians knowledgeable in the management of patients with homocystinuria .
Patient response to Cystadane can be monitored by homocysteine plasma levels .
Dosage in all patients can be gradually increased until plasma total homocysteine is undetectable or present only in small amounts .
Response ( by homocysteine plasma levels ) usually occurs within several days and steady state within a month .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be monitored in patients with CBS deficiency [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dosages of up to 20 grams per day have been necessary to control homocysteine levels in some patients .
However , one pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic in vitro simulation study indicated minimal benefit from exceeding a twice - daily dosing schedule and a 150 mg / kg / day dosage for Cystadane .
2 . 2 Administration The prescribed amount of Cystadane should be measured with the measuring scoop provided ( one level 1 . 7 mL scoop is equal to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder ) and then dissolved in 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula , or mixed with food for immediate ingestion .
• Powder for oral solution available in bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
( 3 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cystadane is a white , granular , hygroscopic powder for oral solution available in bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
• None ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• Hypermethioninemia : Cystadane may worsen elevated plasma methionine concentrations in patients with CBS deficiency .
Cerebral edema has been reported in patients receiving Cystadane .
( 5 . 1 ) • Monitoring : Monitor plasma methionine concentrations in patients with CBS deficiency .
Keep plasma methionine concentrations below 1 , 000 µmol / L through dietary medication and , if necessary , a reduction of Cystadane dose .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypermethioninemia Risk of Hypermethioninemia in Patients with CBS Deficiency Patients with homocystinuria due to cystathionine beta - synthase ( CBS ) deficiency may also have elevated plasma methionine concentrations .
Treatment with Cystadane may further increase methionine concentrations due to the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine .
Cerebral edema has been reported in patients with hypermethioninemia , including patients treated with Cystadane .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be monitored in patients with CBS deficiency .
Plasma methionine concentrations should be kept below 1 , 000 µmol / L through dietary modification and , if necessary , a reduction of Cystadane dose .
• Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % ) were nausea and gastrointestinal distress , based on physician survey .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact 877 - 828 - 8874 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Studies The most serious adverse reaction reported with Cystadane treatment is the development of hypermethioninemia and cerebral edema in patients with CBS Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The assessment of clinical adverse reactions is based on a survey study of 41 physicians , who treated a total of 111 homocystinuria patients with Cystadane .
Adverse reactions were retrospectively recalled and were not collected systematically in this open - label , uncontrolled , physician survey .
Thus , this list may not encompass all types of potential adverse reactions , reliably estimate their frequency , or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions were reported ( Table 1 ) : Table 1 : Number of Patients with Adverse Reactions to Cystadane by Physician Survey Adverse Reactions Number of Patients Nausea 2 Gastrointestinal distress 2 Diarrhea 1 " Bad Taste " 1 " Caused Odor " 1 Questionable psychological changes 1 “ Aspirated the powder ” 1 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Cystadane .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In postmarketing experience with Cystadane , severe cerebral edema and hypermethioninemia have been reported within 2 weeks to 6 months of starting betaine therapy , with complete recovery after discontinuation of Cystadane .
All patients who developed cerebral edema had homocystinuria due to CBS deficiency and had severe elevation in plasma methionine levels ( range 1 , 000 to 3 , 000 µM ) .
As cerebral edema has also been reported in patients with hypermethioninemia , secondary hypermethioninemia due to betaine therapy has been postulated as a possible mechanism of action .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in patients during postmarketing use of Cystadane : anorexia , agitation , depression , irritability , personality disorder , sleep disturbed , dental disorders , diarrhea , glossitis , nausea , stomach discomfort , vomiting , hair loss , hives , skin odor abnormalities , and urinary incontinence .
• Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Cystadane .
Use only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing women : It is not known whether Cystadane is excreted in human milk .
Use only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatrics : Pediatric patients ranging in age from 24 days to 17 years have been treated with Cystadane .
Children younger than 3 years of age may benefit from dose titration .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Cystadane .
It is also not known whether Cystadane can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cystadane should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Cystadane is excreted in human milk .
Use only if clearly needed .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The majority of case studies of homocystinuria patients treated with Cystadane have been pediatric patients , including patients ranging in age from 24 days to 17 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Children younger than 3 years of age may benefit from dose titration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In an acute toxicology study in rats , death occurred frequently at doses equal to or greater than 10 g / kg .
11 DESCRIPTION Cystadane ( betaine anhydrous for oral solution ) is an agent for the treatment of homocystinuria .
It contains no ingredients other than anhydrous betaine .
Cystadane is a white , granular , hygroscopic powder , which is diluted in water and administered orally .
The chemical name of betaine anhydrous powder is trimethylglycine .
It has a molecular weight of 117 . 15 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cystadane acts as a methyl group donor in the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine in patients with homocystinuria .
Cystadane occurs naturally in the body .
It is a metabolite of choline and is present in small amounts in foods such as beets , spinach , cereals , and seafood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cystadane was observed to lower plasma homocysteine levels in three types of homocystinuria , including CBS deficiency ; MTHFR deficiency ; and cbl defect .
Patients have taken Cystadane for many years without evidence of tolerance .
There has been no demonstrated correlation between Cystadane levels and homocysteine levels .
In CBS - deficient patients , large increases in methionine levels over baseline have been observed .
Cystadane has also been demonstrated to increase low plasma methionine and S - adenosylmethionine ( SAM ) levels in patients with MTHFR deficiency and cbl defect .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetic studies of Cystadane are not available .
Plasma levels of Cystadane have not been measured in patients and have not been correlated to homocysteine levels .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity and fertility studies have not been conducted with Cystadane .
No evidence of genotoxicity was demonstrated in the following tests : metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes ; bacterial reverse mutation assay ; and mouse micronucleus test .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Cystadane was studied in a double - blind , placebo - controlled , crossover study in 6 patients with CBS deficiency , ages 7 to 32 years at enrollment .
Cystadane was administered at a dosage of 3 grams twice daily , for 12 months .
Plasma homocystine levels were significantly reduced ( p < 0 . 01 ) compared to placebo .
Plasma methionine levels were variable and not significantly different compared to placebo .
No adverse events were reported in any patient .
Cystadane has also been evaluated in observational studies without concurrent controls in patients with homocystinuria due to CBS deficiency , MTHFR deficiency , or cbl defect . A review of 16 case studies and the randomized controlled trial previously described was also conducted , and the data available for each study were summarized ; however , no formal statistical analyses were performed .
The studies included a total of 78 male and female patients with homocystinuria who were treated with Cystadane .
This included 48 patients with CBS deficiency , 13 with MTHFR deficiency , and 11 with cbl defect , ranging in age from 24 days to 53 years .
The majority of patients ( n = 48 ) received 6 gm / day , 3 patients received less than 6 gm / day , 12 patients received doses from 6 to 15 gm / day , and 5 patients received doses over 15 gm / day .
Most patients were treated for more than 3 months ( n = 57 ) and 30 patients were treated for 1 year or longer ( range 1 month to 11 years ) .
Homocystine is formed nonenzymatically from two molecules of homocysteine , and both have be used to evaluate the effect of Cystadane in patients with homocystinuria .
Plasma homocystine or homocysteine levels were reported numerically for 62 patients , and 61 of these patients showed decreases with Cystadane treatment .
Homocystine decreased by 83 - 88 % regardless of pre - treatment level , and homocysteine decreased by 71 - 83 % , regardless of the pre - treatment level .
Clinical improvement , such as improvement in seizures , or behavioral and cognitive functioning , was reported by the treating physicians in about three - fourths of patients .
Many of these patients were also taking other therapies such as vitamin B6 ( pyridoxine ) , vitamin B12 ( cobalamin ) , and folate with variable biochemical responses .
In most cases , adding Cystadane resulted in a further reduction of either homocystine or homocysteine .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Cystadane is available in plastic bottles containing 180 grams of betaine anhydrous .
Each bottle is equipped with a plastic child - resistant cap and is supplied with a polystyrene measuring scoop .
One level scoop ( 1 . 7 mL ) is equal to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
NDC 66621 - 4000 - 1 180 g / bottle Cystadane can be ordered by calling AnovoRx Group , LLC , Customer service at 1 - 888 - 487 - 4703 16 . 1 Storage Store at room temperature , 15 – 30 ˚ C ( 59 – 86 ˚ F ) .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be advised of the following information before beginning treatment with Cystadane : 17 . 1 Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients and caregivers that Cystadane should only be taken as directed by their healthcare professional .
• Instruct patients and caregivers to administer Cystadane as follows : • Shake bottle lightly before removing cap .
- Measure with the scoop provided .
- Measure the number of scoops as prescribed by their healthcare professional .
One level scoop ( 1 . 7 mL ) is equivalent to 1 gram of betaine anhydrous powder .
- Mix powder with 4 to 6 ounces ( 120 to 180 mL ) of water , juice , milk , or formula until completely dissolved , or mix with food , then ingest mixture immediately .
- Always replace the cap tightly after using , and protect powder from moisture .
Manufactured For : Rare Disease Therapeutics , Inc .
Franklin , TN 37067 Under License From : Orphan Europe , s . a . r . l . Puteaux France Distributed By : AnovoRx Distribution , LLC Memphis , TN 38134 Part No . : RDT C PI007 Part No . : Orphan Europe OEP 829 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
