Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • • wheezing / difficulty breathing • • shock • • facial swelling • • hives • • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product • • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• • if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • • do not use routinely if you have wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • • wet hands and forearms with water • • scrub for 3 minutes with 5 mL of product ( 7 strokes ) and a wet brush , paying close attention to the nails , cuticles and skin between the fingers • • a separate nail cleaner may be used • • rinse thoroughly • • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product ( 7 strokes ) and rinse under running water and dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • • wet hands with water • • dispense 5 mL of product ( 7 strokes ) into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • • rinse and dry thoroughly Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Manufacturing Information Manufactured for : Medline Industries , LP Three Lakes Drive , Northfield , IL 60093 USA Made in USA www . medline . com 1 - 800 - MEDLINE REF : HHCHG1000FM V2 RA22XLI Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
