SPL UNCLASSIFIED 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP Concentrated Dextrose for Intravenous Administration NOTE : This solution is hypertonic − See Warnings and Precautions .
DESCRIPTION 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution of dextrose in water for injection for intravenous injection as a fluid and nutrient replenisher .
Each mL of fluid contains 0 . 5 g dextrose , hydrous which delivers 3 . 4 kcal / gram .
The solution has an osmolarity of 2 . 5 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
and a pH of 3 . 2 - 6 . 5 .
May contain Hydrochloric acid and / or Sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required , the unused portion should be discarded with the entire unit .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated C6H12O6 • H2O ( D - glucose monohydrate ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
Dextrose , hydrous has the following formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The delivery device is composed of a 50 mL glass syringe barrel with rubber stopper , and custom molded IMS injector with Luer Connector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously this solution restores blood glucose levels in hypoglycemia and provides a source of carbohydrate calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injection undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS & USAGE 50 % Dextrose Injection is indicated in the treatment of insulin hypoglycemia ( hyperinsulinemia or insulin shock ) to restore blood glucose levels .
The solution is also indicated , after dilution , for intravenous infusion as a source of carbohydrate calories in patients whose oral intake is restricted or inadequate to maintain nutritional requirements .
Slow infusion of hypertonic solutions is essential to ensure proper utilization of dextrose and avoid production of hyperglycemia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A concentrated dextrose solution should not be used when intracranial or intraspinal hemorrhage is present , nor in the presence of delirium tremens if the patient is already dehydrated .
Dextrose injection without electrolytes should not be administered simultaneously with blood through the same infusion set because of the possibility that pseudoagglutination of red cells may occur .
WARNINGS 50 % Dextrose Injection is hypertonic and may cause phlebitis and thrombosis at the site of injection .
Significant hyperglycemia and possible hyperosmolar syndrome may result from too rapid administration .
The physician should be aware of the symptoms of hyperosmolar syndrome , such as mental confusion and loss of consciousness , especially in patients with chronic uremia and those with known carbohydrate intolerance .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
For peripheral vein administration : The solution should be given slowly , preferably through a small bore needle into a large vein , to minimize venous irritation .
For central venous administration : Concentrated dextrose should be administered via central vein only after suitable dilution .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Electrolyte deficits , particularly in serum potassium and phosphate , may occur during prolonged use of concentrated dextrose solutions .
Blood electrolyte monitoring is essential and fluid and electrolyte imbalances should be corrected .
Essential vitamins and minerals also should be provided as needed .
To minimize hyperglycemia and consequent glycosuria , it is desirable to monitor blood and urine glucose and if necessary , add insulin .
When a concentrated dextrose infusion is abruptly withdrawn , it is advisable to follow with the administration of 5 % or 10 % dextrose injection to avoid rebound hypoglycemia .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Care should be exercised to ensure that the needle is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
If thrombosis should occur during administration , the injection should be stopped and corrective measures instituted .
Concentrated dextrose solutions should not be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose .
It is also not known whether dextrose can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hyperosmolar syndrome , resulting from excessively rapid administration of concentrated dextrose may cause mental confusion and / or loss of consciousness .
Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE in the event of overhydration or solute overload during therapy , re - evalutate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION For peripheral vein administration : Injection of the solution should be made slowly .
The maximum rate at which dextrose can be infused without producing glycosuria is 0 . 5 g / kg of body weight / hour .
About 95 % of the dextrose is retained when infused at a rate of 0 . 8 g / kg / hr .
In insulin - induced hypoglycemia , intravenous injection of 10 to 25 grams of dextrose ( 20 to 50 mL of 50 % dextrose ) is usually adequate .
Repeated doses and supportive treatment may be required in severe cases .
A specimen for blood glucose determination should be taken before injecting the dextrose .
In such emergencies , dextrose should be administered promptly without awaiting pretreatment test results .
For central vein administration : For total parenteral nutrition 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered by slow intravenous infusion ( a ) after admixture with amino acid solutions via an indwelling catheter with the tip positioned in a large central vein , preferably the superior vena cava , or ( b ) after dilution with sterile water for injection .
Dosage should be adjusted to meet individual patient requirements .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
The maximum rate of dextrose administration which does not result in glycosuria is the same as cited above .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 g / mL ) is supplied in single - dose prefilled syringes as follows : NDC 51662 - 1584 - 1 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 g / mL ) HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Syringe Assembly Directions : USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms : 50 % Dextrose Injection , USP 25 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 5 g / mL ) is supplied in single - dose prefilled syringes as follows : NDC No .
Stock No .
Container Size Needle 76329 - 3302 - 1 3302 50 mL None One shrink wrapped package containing 10 unit cartons , each containing a Luer - Jet ™ Luer - Lock Prefilled Syringe .
Revised 01 / 21 6933010 E © International Medication Systems , Ltd . , 2021 International Medication Systems , Ltd .
South El Monte , CA 91733 , USA An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company Printed in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1584 - 1 SERIALIZED CARTON LABELING 51662 - 1584 - 1 SERIALIZED CARTON LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON LABELING CARTON LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - SYRINGE LABELING SYRINGE LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
