DESCRIPTIONClotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP contains a combination of clotrimazole , a synthetic antifungal agent , and betamethasone dipropionate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Chemically , clotrimazole is 1 - ( o - Chloro - α , α - diphenylbenzyl ) imidazole , with the empirical formula C22H17ClN2 , a molecular weight of 344 . 84 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clotrimazole is an odorless , white crystalline powder , insoluble in water and soluble in ethanol .
Betamethasone dipropionate has the chemical name 9 - Fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 60 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream contains 10 mg clotrimazole and 0 . 64 mg betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in a hydrophilic cream .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTSCetereath - 30 , cetyl alcohol , mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , stearyl alcohol and white petrolatum ; benzyl alcohol as preservative .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is smooth , uniform , and white to off - white in color .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYClotrimazole And Betamethasone DipropionateClotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream has been shown to be at least as effective as clotrimazole alone in a different cream vehicle .
Use of corticosteroids in the treatment of fungal infection may lead to suppression of host inflammation leading to worsening or decreased cure rate .
ClotrimazoleSkin penetration and systemic absorption of clotrimazole following topical application of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream have not been studied .
The following information was obtained using 1 % clotrimazole cream and solution formulations .
Six hours after the application of radioactive clotrimazole 1 % cream and 1 % solution onto intact and acutely inflamed skin , the concentration of clotrimazole varied from 100 mcg / cm3 in the stratum corneum , to 0 . 5 to 1 mcg / cm3 in the reticular dermis , and 0 . 1 mcg / cm3 in the subcutis .
No measurable amount of radioactivity ( less than 0 . 001 mcg / mL ) was found in the serum within 48 hours after application under occlusive dressing of 0 . 5 mL of the solution or 0 . 8 g of the cream .
Only 0 . 5 % or less of the applied radioactivity was excreted in the urine .
MicrobiologyMechanism of Action : Clotrimazole is an imidazole antifungal agent .
Imidazoles inhibit 14 - α - demethylation of lanosterol in fungi by binding to one of the cytochrome P - 450 enzymes .
This leads to the accumulation of 14 - α - methylsterols and reduced concentrations of ergosterol , a sterol essential for a normal fungal cytoplasmic membrane .
The methylsterols may affect the electron transport system , thereby inhibiting growth of fungi .
Activity In Vivo : Clotrimazole has been shown to be active against most strains of the following dermatophytes , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGEsection : Epidermophyton floccosum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Trichophyton rubrum .
Activity In Vitro : In vitro , clotrimazole has been shown to have activity against many dermatophytes , but the clinical significance of this information is unknown .
Drug Resistance : Strains of dermatophytes having a natural resistance to clotrimazole have not been reported .
Resistance to azoles including clotrimazole has been reported in some Candida species .
No single - step or multiple - step resistance to clotrimazole has developed during successive passages of Trichophyton mentagrophytes .
Betamethasone DipropionateBetamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection . )
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection . )
Once absorbed through the skin , the pharmacokinetics of topical corticosteroids are similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Studies performed with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream indicate that this topical combination anti - fungal / corticosteroid may have vasoconstrictor potencies in a range that is comparable to high potency topical corticosteroids .
Therefore use is not recommended in patients less than 17 years of age , in diaper dermatitis , and under occlusion .
CLINICAL STUDIESIn clinical studies of tinea corporis , tinea cruris , and tinea pedis , patients treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream showed a better clinical response at the first return visit than patients treated with clotrimazole cream .
In tinea corporis and tinea cruris , the patient returned 3 to 5 days after starting treatment , and in tinea pedis , after 1 week .
Mycological cure rates observed in patients treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream were as good as or better than in those patients treated with clotrimazole cream .
In these same clinical studies , patients treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream showed better clinical responses and mycological cure rates when compared with patients treated with betamethasone dipropionate cream .
INDICATIONS AND USAGEClotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is indicated in patients 17 years and older for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis , tinea cruris and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Trichophyton rubrum .
Effective treatment without the risks associated with topical corticosteroid use may be obtained using a topical antifungal agent that does not contain a corticosteroid , especially for noninflammatory tinea infections .
The efficacy of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for the treatment of infections caused by zoophilic dermatophytes ( e . g . , Microsporum canis ) has not been established .
Several cases of treatment failure of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of infections caused by Microsporum canis have been reported .
CONTRAINDICATIONSClotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is contraindicated in patients who are sensitive to clotrimazole , betamethasone dipropionate , other corticosteroids or imidazoles , or to any ingredient in these preparations .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralSystemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and use under occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
Patients applying clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA - axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , morning plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
If HPA - axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA - axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
In a small study , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied using large dosages , 7 g daily for 14 days ( BID ) to the crural area of normal adult subjects .
Three of the eight normal subjects on whom clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment .
One of these subjects had an abnormal Cortrosyn test .
The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered one week after discontinuing dosing .
In addition , two separate studies in pediatric patients demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing .
( See PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Usesection . )
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios .
( See PRECAUTIONS – Pediatric Use section . )
If irritation develops , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
THE SAFETY OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED IN THE TREATMENT OF DIAPER DERMATITIS .
ADVERSE EVENTS CONSISTENT WITH CORTICOSTEROID USE HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM FOR DIAPER DERMATITIS .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM IN THE TREATMENT OF DIAPER DERMATITIS IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
ADVERSE REACTIONSAdverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in clinical trials were paresthesia in 1 . 9 % of patients , and rash , edema , and secondary infection , each in 1 % of patients .
The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
In the pediatric population , reported adverse events for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream include growth retardation , benign intracranial hypertension , Cushing ’ s syndrome ( HPA - axis suppression ) , and local cutaneous reactions , including skin atrophy .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows : erythema , stinging , blistering , peeling , edema , pruritus , urticaria and general irritation of the skin .
OVERDOSAGEAmounts greater than 45 g / week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used .
Acute overdosage with topical application of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is unlikely and would not be expected to lead to life - threatening situation .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used for longer than the prescribed time period .
Topically applied corticosteroids , such as the one contained in clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream , can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONGently massage sufficient clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used longer than 2 weeks in the treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris , and amounts greater than 45 g per week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used .
If a patient with tinea corporis or tinea cruris shows no clinical improvement after one week of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used longer than 4 weeks in the treatment of tinea pedis , and amounts greater than 45 g per week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used .
If a patient with tinea pedis shows no clinical improvement after 2 weeks of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIEDClotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP is supplied in 15 - gram and 45 - gram tubes ; boxes of one .
Store between 2 ° C and 30 ° C ( 36 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by Actavis Mid Atlantic LLC 1877 Kawai Road Lincolnton , NC 28092 USA FORM NO . 0379 Rev . 5 / 06 VC2842 Information for PatientsPatients using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should receive the following information and instructions : • The medication is to be used as directed by the physician and is not recommended for use longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , mouth , or intravaginally .
• This medication is to be used for the full prescribed treatment time , even though the symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 1 week of treatment for tinea cruris or tinea corporis , or after 2 weeks for tinea pedis .
• This medication should only be used for the disorder for which it was prescribed .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate without first talking with your physician .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , covered , or wrapped so as to be occluded .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsection . )
• Any signs of local adverse reactions should be reported to your physician .
• Patients should avoid sources of infection or reinfection .
• When using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the groin area , patients should use the medication for two weeks only , and apply the cream sparingly .
Patients should wear loose - fitting clothing .
Notify the physician if the condition persists after 2 weeks .
• The safety of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream has not been demonstrated in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Adverse events consistent with corticosteroid use have been observed in patients treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for diaper dermatitis .
The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended .
Laboratory TestsIf there is a lack of response to clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream , appropriate confirmation of the diagnosis , including possible mycological studies , is indicated before instituting another course of therapy .
The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA - axis suppression due to the corticosteroid components : Urinary free cortisol test Morning plasma cortisol test ACTH ( cosyntropin ) stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThere are no adequate laboratory animal studies with either the combination of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate or with either component individually to evaluate carcinogenesis .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 5 - and 38 - fold the maximum human dose based on body surface areas , respectively .
In a combined study of the effects of clotrimazole on fertility , teratogenicity , and postnatal development , male and female rats were dosed orally ( diet admixture ) with levels of 5 , 10 , 25 , or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 - 8 times the maximum dose in a 60 kg adult based on body surface area ) from 10 weeks prior to mating until 4 weeks postpartum .
No adverse effects on the duration of estrous cycle , fertility , or duration of pregnancy were noted .
PregnancyTeratogenic EffectsPregnancy Category C : There have been no teratogenic studies performed in animals or humans with the combination of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered at relatively low dosage levels .
Studies in pregnant rats with intravaginal doses up to 100 mg / kg ( 15 times the maximum human dose ) revealed no evidence of fetotoxicity due to clotrimazole exposure .
No increase in fetal malformations was noted in pregnant rats receiving oral ( gastric tube ) clotrimazole doses up to 100 mg / kg / day during gestation days 6 - 15 .
However , clotrimazole dosed at 100 mg / kg / day was embryotoxic ( increased resorptions ) , fetotoxic ( reduced fetal weights ) and maternally toxic ( reduced body weight gain ) to rats .
Clotrimazole dosed at 200 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the maximum human dose ) was maternally lethal , and therefore fetuses were not evaluated in this group .
Also in this study , doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum human dose ) had no adverse effects on dams or fetuses .
However , in the combined fertility , teratogenicity , and postnatal development study described above , 50 mg / kg clotrimazole , was associated with reduced maternal weight gain and reduced numbers of offspring reared to 4 weeks .
Oral clotrimazole doses of 25 , 50 , 100 , and 200 mg / kg / day ( 2 - 15 times the maximum human dose ) were not teratogenic in mice .
No evidence of maternal toxicity or embryotoxicity was seen in pregnant rabbits dosed orally with 60 , 120 , or 180 mg / kg / day ( 18 - 55 times the maximum human dose ) .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately one - fifth the maximum human dose .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Betamethasone dipropionate has not been tested for teratogenic potential by the dermal route of administration .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women of the teratogenic effects of topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing MothersSystemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroids production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseAdverse events consistent with corticosteroid use have been observed in patients under 12 years of age treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream .
In open - label studies , 17 of 43 ( 39 . 5 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 12 to 16 years old ) using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for treatment of tinea pedis demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing .
In another open - label study , 8 of 17 ( 47 . 1 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 12 to 16 years old ) using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for treatment of tinea cruris demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM IN THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS UNDER 17 YEARS OF AGE OR PATIENTS WITH DIAPER DERMATITIS IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
Because of higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients under the age of 12 years are at a higher risk with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream .
The studies described above suggest that pediatric patients under the age of 17 years may also have this risk .
They are at increased risk of developing Cushing ’ s syndrome while on treatment and adrenal insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae and growth retardation , have been reported with inappropriate use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in infants and children ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONSsections ) .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Post - market adverse events reporting for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in patients aged 65 and above includes reports of skin atrophy and rare reports of skin ulceration .
Caution should be exercised with the use of these corticosteroid containing topical products on thinning skin .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM UNDER OCCLUSION , SUCH AS IN DIAPER DERMATITIS , IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
Clotrimazole / Betamethasone Cream Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
