Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Use For the temporary relief of minor pain .
Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients of this product • On wounds or damaged , irritated or sensitive skin • With any other topical anesthetic • For more than one week without consulting a doctor • With a heating pad • If pouch is damaged or opened .
When using this product • Do not allow contact with the eyes • Use only as directed • Read and follow all directions and warnings on this package • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat to the area of use • Do not reuse patch • Keep this product away from pets and children .
Used patches still contains the drug product that can produce serious adverse effect if child or pet chews or ingest this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for more than seven days or clear up and occur again within a few days • Localized skin reactions occur such as rash , pain , itching , redness , irritation , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If chewed or swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area .
Apply immediately upon removal from pouch .
Peel off the first liner and apply exposed patch to affected area .
Peel off second liner while applying the rest of patch .
Remove patch after 24 hours .
Do not expose area to heat .
Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Alicyclic hydrocarbon resin , mineral oil , polyester film , silicon - coated polyester film and styrene isoprene styrene block copolymer .
Other information .
Store in a clean , dry place away from direct sunlight .
Store in original unopened pouch .
protected from moisture .
Questions ?
Customer Care Helpline 844 - 348 - 5423 Monday - Friday 8 : 30 a . m – 4 : 30 p . m PST PACKAGE LABEL Carton Label NDC 73638 - 901 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pouch Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
