Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) February 2009 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) February 2009 WARNING : HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY , MYOPATHY , LACTIC ACIDOSIS , EXACERBATIONS OF HEPATITIS B Zidovudine , one of the 2 active ingredients in COMBIVIR ® , has been associated with hematologic toxicity including neutropenia and anemia , particularly in patients with advanced HIV - 1 disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Prolonged use of zidovudine has been associated with symptomatic myopathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Lactic acidosis and hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues alone or in combination , including lamivudine , zidovudine , and other antiretrovirals .
Suspend treatment if clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are co - infected with hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) and HIV - 1 and have discontinued lamivudine , which is one component of COMBIVIR .
Hepatic function should be monitored closely with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months in patients who discontinue COMBIVIR and are co - infected with HIV - 1 and HBV .
If appropriate , initiation of anti - hepatitis B therapy may be warranted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY , MYOPATHY , LACTIC ACIDOSIS , EXACERBATIONS OF HEPATITIS B See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Hematologic toxicity including neutropenia and anemia have been associated with the use of zidovudine , one of the components of COMBIVIR ( 5 . 1 ) • Symptomatic myopathy associated with prolonged use of zidovudine .
( 5 . 2 ) • Lactic acidosis and hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues including zidovudine .
Suspend treatment if clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are co - infected with hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) and human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - 1 ) and have discontinued lamivudine , a component of COMBIVIR .
Monitor hepatic function closely in these patients and , if appropriate , initiate anti - hepatitis B treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE COMBIVIR , a combination of two nucleoside analogues , is indicated in combination with other antiretrovirals for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
COMBIVIR , a combination of two nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors , is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults and Adolescents weighing ≥ 30 kg : 1 tablet twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatrics : Dosage should be based on body weight not to exceed adult doses .
( 2 . 2 ) • COMBIVIR , a fixed - dose product , should not be prescribed for pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg or patients requiring dosage adjustment , such as those with renal or hepatic impairment , or patients experiencing dose - limiting adverse reactions .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Adults and Adolescents Weighing ≥ 30 kg The recommended oral dose of COMBIVIR in HIV - 1 - infected adults and adolescents weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg is 1 tablet ( containing 150 mg of lamivudine and 300 mg of zidovudine ) twice daily .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients The recommended oral dosage of scored COMBIVIR Tablets for pediatric patients who weigh greater than or equal to 30 kg and for whom a solid oral dosage form is appropriate is 1 tablet administered twice daily .
Before prescribing COMBIVIR Tablets , children should be assessed for the ability to swallow tablets .
If a child is unable to reliably swallow a COMBIVIR tablet , the liquid oral formulations should be prescribed : EPIVIR ® ( lamivudine ) Oral Solution and RETROVIR ® ( zidovudine ) Syrup .
2 . 3 Patients Requiring Dosage Adjustment Because COMBIVIR is a fixed - dose combination tablet , it should not be prescribed for pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg or patients requiring dosage adjustment , such as those with reduced renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 50 mL / min ) , patients with hepatic impairment , or patients experiencing dose - limiting adverse reactions .
Liquid and solid oral formulations of the individual components of COMBIVIR are available for these populations .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS COMBIVIR Tablets are white , scored , film - coated , modified capsule - shaped tablets , debossed on both tablet faces , such that when broken in half , the full “ GX FC3 ” code is present on both halves of the tablet ( “ GX ” on one face and “ FC3 ” on the opposite face of the tablet ) .
Tablets : Scored 150 mg lamivudine and 300 mg zidovudine ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS COMBIVIR Tablets are contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to any of the components of the product .
COMBIVIR Tablets are contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hematologic toxicity / bone marrow suppression including neutropenia and anemia have been associated with the use of zidovudine , one of the components of COMBIVIR .
( 5 . 1 ) • Symptomatic myopathy associated with prolonged use of zidovudine .
( 5 . 2 ) • Lactic acidosis and hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues including zidovudine .
Suspend treatment if clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • Acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are co - infected with hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) and human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - 1 ) and have discontinued lamivudine , a component of COMBIVIR .
Monitor hepatic function closely in these patients and , if appropriate , initiate anti - hepatitis B treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) • COMBIVIR should not be administered with other lamivudine - or zidovudine - containing products or emtricitabine - containing products .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hepatic decompensation , some fatal , has occurred in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy and interferon alfa with / without ribavirin .
Discontinue COMBIVIR as medically appropriate and consider dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon alfa , ribavirin , or both .
( 5 . 6 ) • Exacerbation of anemia has been reported in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving ribavirin and zidovudine .
Co - administration of ribavirin and zidovudine is not advised .
( 5 . 6 ) • Pancreatitis : Use with caution in pediatric patients with a history of pancreatitis or other significant risk factors for pancreatitis .
Discontinue treatment as clinically appropriate .
( 5 . 7 ) • Immune reconstitution syndrome ( 5 . 8 ) and redistribution / accumulation of body fat ( 5 . 9 ) have been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy .
5 . 1 Hemotologic Toxicity / Bone Marrow Suppression Zidovudine , a component of COMBIVIR , has been associated with hematologic toxicity including neutropenia and anemia , particularly in patients with advanced HIV - 1 disease .
COMBIVIR should be used with caution in patients who have bone marrow compromise evidenced by granulocyte count less than 1 , 000 cells / mm3 or hemoglobin less than 9 . 5 g / dL [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Frequent blood counts are strongly recommended in patients with advanced HIV - 1 disease who are treated with COMBIVIR .
Periodic blood counts are recommended for other HIV - 1 - infected patients .
If anemia or neutropenia develops , dosage interruption may be needed .
5 . 2 Myopathy Myopathy and myositis , with pathological changes similar to that produced by HIV - 1 disease , have been associated with prolonged use of zidovudine , and therefore may occur with therapy with COMBIVIR .
5 . 3 Lactic Acidosis / Hepatomegaly With Steatosis Lactic acidosis and hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogues alone or in combination , including lamivudine , zidovudine , and other antiretrovirals .
A majority of these cases have been in women .
Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors .
Particular caution should be exercised when administering COMBIVIR to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease ; however , cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors .
Treatment with COMBIVIR should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity ( which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations ) .
5 . 4 Patients With HIV - 1 and Hepatitis B Virus Co - infection Posttreatment Exacerbations of Hepatitis : In clinical trials in non - HIV - 1 - infected patients treated with lamivudine for chronic HBV , clinical and laboratory evidence of exacerbations of hepatitis have occurred after discontinuation of lamivudine .
These exacerbations have been detected primarily by serum ALT elevations in addition to re - emergence of hepatitis B viral DNA ( HBV DNA ) .
Although most events appear to have been self - limited , fatalities have been reported in some cases .
Similar events have been reported from post - marketing experience after changes from lamivudine - containing HIV - 1 treatment regimens to non - lamivudine - containing regimens in patients infected with both HIV - 1 and HBV .
The causal relationship to discontinuation of lamivudine treatment is unknown .
Patients should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months after stopping treatment .
There is insufficient evidence to determine whether re - initiation of lamivudine alters the course of posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis .
Important Differences Among Lamivudine - Containing Products : COMBIVIR Tablets contain a higher dose of the same active ingredient ( lamivudine ) than EPIVIR - HBV ® ( lamivudine ) Tablets and Oral Solution .
EPIVIR - HBV was developed for treating chronic hepatitis B . Safety and efficacy of lamivudine have not been established for treatment of chronic hepatitis B in patients co - infected with HIV - 1 and HBV .
Emergence of Lamivudine - Resistant HBV : In non - HIV - infected patients treated with lamivudine for chronic hepatitis B , emergence of lamivudine - resistant HBV has been detected and has been associated with diminished treatment response ( see full prescribing information for EPIVIR - HBV for additional information ) .
Emergence of hepatitis B virus variants associated with resistance to lamivudine has also been reported in HIV - 1 - infected patients who have received lamivudine - containing antiretroviral regimens in the presence of concurrent infection with hepatitis B virus .
5 . 5 Use With Other , Lamivudine - , Zidovudine - , and / or Emtricitabine - Containing Products COMBIVIR is a fixed - dose combination of lamivudine and zidovudine .
COMBIVIR should not be administered concomitantly with other lamivudine - or zidovudine - containing products including EPIVIR ® ( lamivudine ) Tablets and Oral Solution , EPIVIR - HBV Tablets and Oral Solution , RETROVIR ® ( zidovudine ) Tablets , Capsules , Syrup , and IV Infusion , EPZICOM ® ( abacavir sulfate and lamivudine ) Tablets , or TRIZIVIR ® ( abacavir sulfate , lamivudine , and zidovudine ) Tablets ; or emtricitabine - containing products , including ATRIPLA ® ( efavirenz , emtricitabine , and tenofovir ) , EMTRIVA ® ( emtricitabine ) , or TRUVADA ® ( emtricitabine and tenofovir ) .
5 . 6 Use With Interferon - and Ribavirin - Based Regimens In vitro studies have shown ribavirin can reduce the phosphorylation of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues such as lamivudine and zidovudine .
Although no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction ( e . g . , loss of HIV - 1 / HCV virologic suppression ) was seen when ribavirin was coadministered with lamivudine or zidovudine in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , hepatic decompensation ( some fatal ) has occurred in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV - 1 and interferon alfa with or without ribavirin .
Patients receiving interferon alfa with or without ribavirin and COMBIVIR should be closely monitored for treatment - associated toxicities , especially hepatic decompensation , neutropenia , and anemia .
Discontinuation of COMBIVIR should be considered as medically appropriate .
Dose reduction or discontinuation of interferon alfa , ribavirin , or both should also be considered if worsening clinical toxicities are observed , including hepatic decompensation ( e . g . , Childs Pugh greater than 6 ) ( see the complete prescribing information for interferon and ribavirin ) .
Exacerbation of anemia has been reported in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving ribavirin and zidovudine .
Co - administration of ribavirin and zidovudine is not advised .
5 . 7 Pancreatitis COMBIVIR should be used with caution in patients with a history of pancreatitis or other significant risk factors for the development of pancreatitis .
Treatment with COMBIVIR should be stopped immediately if clinical signs , symptoms , or laboratory abnormalities suggestive of pancreatitis occur [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy , including COMBIVIR .
During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment , patients whose immune systems respond may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections ( such as Mycobacterium avium infection , cytomegalovirus , Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia [ PCP ] , or tuberculosis ) , which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment .
5 . 9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution / accumulation of body fat including central obesity , dorsocervical fat enlargement ( buffalo hump ) , peripheral wasting , facial wasting , breast enlargement , and “ cushingoid appearance ” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy .
The mechanism and long - term consequences of these events are currently unknown .
A causal relationship has not been established .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hematologic toxicity , including neutropenia and anemia [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Symptomatic myopathy [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Lactic acidosis and hepatomegaly with steatosis [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Acute exacerbations of hepatitis B [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Hepatic decompensation in patients co - infected with HIV - 1 and hepatitis C [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Exacerbation of anemia in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving ribavirin and zidovudine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Pancreatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 15 % ) in adult and pediatric HIV - 1 clinical studies of combination lamivudine and zidovudine were headache , nausea , malaise and fatigue , nasal signs and symptoms , diarrhea , and cough .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine Administered As Separate Formulations : In 4 randomized , controlled trials of EPIVIR 300 mg per day plus RETROVIR 600 mg per day , the following selected adverse reactions and laboratory abnormalities were observed ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) .
Table 1 .
Selected Clinical Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % Frequency ) in 4 Controlled Clinical Trials With EPIVIR 300 mg / day and RETROVIR 600 mg / dayAdverse Reaction EPIVIR plus RETROVIR ( n = 251 ) Body as a whole Headache 35 % Malaise & fatigue 27 % Fever or chills 10 % Digestive Nausea 33 % Diarrhea 18 % Nausea & vomiting 13 % Anorexia and / or decreased appetite 10 % Abdominal pain 9 % Abdominal cramps 6 % Dyspepsia 5 % Nervous system Neuropathy 12 % Insomnia & other sleep disorders 11 % Dizziness 10 % Depressive disorders 9 % Respiratory Nasal signs & symptoms 20 % Cough 18 % Skin Skin rashes 9 % Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 12 % Myalgia 8 % Arthralgia 5 % Pancreatitis was observed in 9 of the 2 , 613 adult patients ( 0 . 3 % ) who received EPIVIR in controlled clinical trials [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Selected laboratory abnormalities observed during therapy are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Frequencies of Selected Laboratory Abnormalities Among Adults in 4 Controlled Clinical Trials of EPIVIR 300 mg / day plus RETROVIR 600 mg / day * Test ( Abnormal Level ) EPIVIR plus RETROVIR % ( n ) Neutropenia ( ANC < 750 / mm3 ) 7 . 2 % ( 237 ) Anemia ( Hgb < 8 . 0 g / dL ) 2 . 9 % ( 241 ) Thrombocytopenia ( platelets < 50 , 000 / mm3 ) 0 . 4 % ( 240 ) ALT ( > 5 . 0 x ULN ) 3 . 7 % ( 241 ) AST ( > 5 . 0 x ULN ) 1 . 7 % ( 241 ) Bilirubin ( > 2 . 5 x ULN ) 0 . 8 % ( 241 ) Amylase ( > 2 . 0 x ULN ) 4 . 2 % ( 72 ) ULN = Upper limit of normal .
ANC = Absolute neutrophil count .
n = Number of patients assessed .
* Frequencies of these laboratory abnormalities were higher in patients with mild laboratory abnormalities at baseline .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following reactions have been identified during post - approval use of EPIVIR , RETROVIR , and / or COMBIVIR .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to EPIVIR , RETROVIR , and / or COMBIVIR .
Body as a Whole : Redistribution / accumulation of body fat [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Cardiovascular : Cardiomyopathy .
Endocrine and Metabolic : Gynecomastia , hyperglycemia .
Gastrointestinal : Oral mucosal pigmentation , stomatitis .
General : Vasculitis , weakness .
Hemic and Lymphatic : Anemia , ( including pure red cell aplasia and anemias progressing on therapy ) , lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly .
Hepatic and Pancreatic : Lactic acidosis and hepatic steatosis , pancreatitis , posttreatment exacerbation of hepatitis B [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) , ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity : Sensitization reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) , urticaria .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle weakness , CPK elevation , rhabdomyolysis .
Nervous : Paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy , seizures .
Respiratory : Abnormal breath sounds / wheezing .
Skin : Alopecia , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted using COMBIVIR Tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Concomitant use with the following drugs should be avoided : stavudine ( 7 . 1 ) , zalcitabine ( 7 . 1 ) , doxorubicin ( 7 . 2 ) .
• Bone marrow suppressive / cytotoxic agents : May increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Antiretroviral Agents Lamivudine : Zalcitabine : Lamivudine and zalcitabine may inhibit the intracellular phosphorylation of one another .
Therefore , use of COMBIVIR in combination with zalcitabine is not recommended .
Zidovudine : Stavudine : Concomitant use of COMBIVIR with stavudine should be avoided since an antagonistic relationship with zidovudine has been demonstrated in vitro .
Nucleoside Analogues Affecting DNA Replication : Some nucleoside analogues affecting DNA replication , such as ribavirin , antagonize the in vitro antiviral activity of zidovudine against HIV - 1 ; concomitant use of such drugs should be avoided .
7 . 2 Doxorubicin Zidovudine : Concomitant use of COMBIVIR with doxorubicin should be avoided since an antagonistic relationship with zidovudine has been demonstrated in vitro .
7 . 3 Hematologic / Bone Marrow Suppressive / Cytotoxic Agents Zidovudine : Coadministration of ganciclovir , interferon alfa , ribavirin , and other bone marrow suppressive or cytotoxic agents may increase the hematologic toxicity of zidovudine .
7 . 4 Interferon - and Ribavirin - Based Regimens Lamivudine : Although no evidence of a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction ( e . g . , loss of HIV - 1 / HCV virologic suppression ) was seen when ribavirin was coadministered with lamivudine in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients , hepatic decompensation ( some fatal ) has occurred in HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV - 1 and interferon alfa with or without ribavirin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Trimethoprim / Sulfamethoxazole ( TMP / SMX ) Lamivudine : No change in dose of either drug is recommended .
There is no information regarding the effect on lamivudine pharmacokinetics of higher doses of TMP / SMX such as those used to treat PCP .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Physicians are encouraged to register patients in the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry by calling 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : HIV - 1 infected mothers in the United States should not breastfeed to avoid potential postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 .
( 8 . 3 ) Revised : February 2009 CMB : 1 PI 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Fetal Risk Summary : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of COMBIVIR ( lamivudine and zidovudine ) in pregnant women .
Clinical trial data demonstrate that maternal zidovudine treatment during pregnancy reduces vertical transmission of HIV - 1 infection to the fetus .
Animal reproduction studies performed with lamivudine and zidovudine showed increased embryotoxicity and fetal malformations ( zidovudine ) , and increased embryolethality ( lamivudine ) .
COMBIVIR should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry : To monitor maternal - fetal outcomes of pregnant women exposed to COMBIVIR and other antiretroviral agents , an Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry has been established .
Physicians are encouraged to register patients by calling 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Clinical Considerations : Treatment of HIV during pregnancy optimizes the health of both mother and fetus .
Clinical trial data reviewed by FDA demonstrate that maternal zidovudine treatment significantly reduces vertical transmission of HIV - 1 infection to the fetus [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Published data suggest that combination antiretroviral regimens may reduce the rate of vertical transmission even further .
Pharmacokinetics of lamivudine and zidovudine in pregnant women are similar to the pharmacokinetics in nonpregnant women .
No dose adjustments are needed during pregnancy .
In a clinical trial , adverse events among HIV - 1 - infected women were not different among untreated women and women treated with zidovudine .
It is not known whether risks of adverse events associated with lamivudine are altered in pregnant women compared with other HIV - 1 - infected patients ( see Human data below ) .
Data : Human Data : Lamivudine : Lamivudine pharmacokinetics were studied in pregnant women during 2 clinical studies conducted in South Africa .
The study assessed pharmacokinetics in : 16 women at 36 weeks gestation using 150 mg lamivudine twice daily with zidovudine , 10 women at 38 weeks gestation using 150 mg lamivudine twice daily with zidovudine , and 10 women at 38 weeks gestation using lamivudine 300 mg twice daily without other antiretrovirals .
Lamivudine pharmacokinetics in pregnant women were similar to those seen in nonpregnant adults and in postpartum women .
Lamivudine concentrations were generally similar in maternal , neonatal , and umbilical cord serum samples .
Zidovudine : A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial was conducted in HIV - 1 - infected pregnant women to determine the utility of zidovudine for the prevention of maternal - fetal HIV - 1 transmission .
Zidovudine treatment during pregnancy reduced the rate of maternal - fetal HIV - 1 transmission from 24 . 9 % for infants born to placebo - treated mothers to 7 . 8 % for infants born to mothers treated with zidovudine .
There were no differences in pregnancy - related adverse events between the treatment groups .
Congenital abnormalities occurred with similar frequency between neonates born to mothers who received zidovudine and neonates born to mothers who received placebo .
The observed abnormalities included problems in embryogenesis ( prior to 14 weeks ) or were recognized on ultrasound before or immediately after initiation of study drug [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Zidovudine pharmacokinetics were studied in a Phase 1 study of 8 women during the last trimester of pregnancy .
As pregnancy progressed , there was no evidence of drug accumulation .
The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine were similar to that of nonpregnant adults .
Consistent with passive transmission of the drug across the placenta , zidovudine concentrations in neonatal plasma at birth were essentially equal to those in maternal plasma at delivery .
Animal Data : Lamivudine : Animal reproduction studies performed at oral doses up to 130 and 60 times the adult dose in rats and rabbits , respectively , revealed no evidence of teratogenicity due to lamivudine .
Increased early embryolethality occurred in rabbits at exposure levels similar to those in humans .
However , there was no indication of this effect in rats at exposure levels up to 35 times those in humans .
Based on animal studies , lamivudine crosses the placenta and is transferred to the fetus [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Zidovudine : Increased fetal resorptions occurred in pregnant rats and rabbits treated with doses of zidovudine that produced drug plasma concentrations 66 to 226 times ( rats ) and 12 to 87 times ( rabbits ) the mean steady - state peak human plasma concentration following a single 100 - mg dose of zidovudine .
There were no other reported developmental anomalies .
In another developmental toxicity study , pregnant rats received zidovudine up to near - lethal doses that produced peak plasma concentrations 350 times peak human plasma concentrations ( 300 times the daily AUC in humans given 600 mg / day zidovudine ) .
This dose was associated with marked maternal toxicity and an increased incidence of fetal malformations .
However , there were no signs of teratogenicity at doses up to one fifth the lethal dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that HIV - 1 - infected mothers in the United States not breastfeed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 infection .
Because of both the potential for HIV - 1 transmission and serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , mothers should be instructed not to breastfeed if they are receiving COMBIVIR .
Although no studies of COMBIVIR excretion in breast milk have been performed , lactation studies performed with lamivudine and zidovudine show that both drugs are excreted in human breast milk .
Samples of breast milk obtained from 20 mothers receiving lamivudine monotherapy ( 300 mg twice daily ) or combination therapy ( 150 mg lamivudine twice daily and 300 mg zidovudine twice daily ) had measurable concentrations of lamivudine .
In another study , after administration of a single dose of 200 mg zidovudine to 13 HIV - 1 - infected women , the mean concentration of zidovudine was similar in human milk and serum .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use COMBIVIR should not be administered to pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg , because it is a fixed - dose combination that cannot be adjusted for this patient population .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of COMBIVIR did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
COMBIVIR is not recommended for patients with impaired renal function ( i . e . , creatinine clearance less than 50 mL / min ) because it is a fixed - dose combination that cannot be adjusted .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Reduction of the dosages of lamivudine and zidovudine is recommended for patients with impaired renal function .
Patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL / min should not receive COMBIVIR because it is a fixed - dose combination that cannot be adjusted .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment A reduction in the daily dose of zidovudine may be necessary in patients with mild to moderate impaired hepatic function or liver cirrhosis .
COMBIVIR is not recommended for patients with impaired hepatic function because it is a fixed - dose combination that cannot be adjusted .
10 OVERDOSAGE COMBIVIR : There is no known antidote for COMBIVIR .
Lamivudine : One case of an adult ingesting 6 grams of lamivudine was reported ; there were no clinical signs or symptoms noted and hematologic tests remained normal .
Because a negligible amount of lamivudine was removed via ( 4 - hour ) hemodialysis , continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis , and automated peritoneal dialysis , it is not known if continuous hemodialysis would provide clinical benefit in a lamivudine overdose event .
Zidovudine : Acute overdoses of zidovudine have been reported in pediatric patients and adults .
These involved exposures up to 50 grams .
The only consistent findings were nausea and vomiting .
Other reported occurrences included headache , dizziness , drowsiness , lethargy , confusion , and 1 report of a grand mal seizure .
Hematologic changes were transient .
All patients recovered .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis appear to have a negligible effect on the removal of zidovudine , while elimination of its primary metabolite , 3 ′ - azido - 3 ′ - deoxy - 5 ′ - O - β - D - glucopyranuronosylthymidine ( GZDV ) , is enhanced .
11 DESCRIPTION COMBIVIR : COMBIVIR Tablets are combination tablets containing lamivudine and zidovudine .
Lamivudine ( EPIVIR ) and zidovudine ( RETROVIR , azidothymidine , AZT , or ZDV ) are synthetic nucleoside analogues with activity against HIV - 1 .
COMBIVIR Tablets are for oral administration .
Each film - coated tablet contains 150 mg of lamivudine , 300 mg of zidovudine , and the inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
Lamivudine : The chemical name of lamivudine is ( 2 R , cis ) - 4 - amino - 1 - ( 2 - hydroxymethyl - 1 , 3 - oxathiolan - 5 - yl ) - ( 1 H ) - pyrimidin - 2 - one .
Lamivudine is the ( - ) enantiomer of a dideoxy analogue of cytidine .
Lamivudine has also been referred to as ( - ) 2 ′ , 3 ′ - dideoxy , 3 ′ - thiacytidine .
It has a molecular formula of C8H11N3O3S and a molecular weight of 229 . 3 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lamivudine is a white to off - white crystalline solid with a solubility of approximately 70 mg / mL in water at 20 ° C . Zidovudine : The chemical name of zidovudine is 3 ′ - azido - 3 ′ - deoxythymidine .
It has a molecular formula of C10H13N5O4 and a molecular weight of 267 . 24 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zidovudine is a white to beige , odorless , crystalline solid with a solubility of 20 . 1 mg / mL in water at 25 ° C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COMBIVIR is an antiviral agent [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Pharmacokinetics in Adults : COMBIVIR : One COMBIVIR Tablet was bioequivalent to 1 EPIVIR Tablet ( 150 mg ) plus 1 RETROVIR Tablet ( 300 mg ) following single - dose administration to fasting healthy subjects ( n = 24 ) .
Lamivudine : The pharmacokinetic properties of lamivudine in fasting patients are summarized in Table 3 .
Following oral administration , lamivudine is rapidly absorbed and extensively distributed .
Binding to plasma protein is low .
Approximately 70 % of an intravenous dose of lamivudine is recovered as unchanged drug in the urine .
Metabolism of lamivudine is a minor route of elimination .
In humans , the only known metabolite is the trans - sulfoxide metabolite ( approximately 5 % of an oral dose after 12 hours ) .
Zidovudine : The pharmacokinetic properties of zidovudine in fasting patients are summarized in Table 3 .
Following oral administration , zidovudine is rapidly absorbed and extensively distributed .
Binding to plasma protein is low .
Zidovudine is eliminated primarily by hepatic metabolism .
The major metabolite of zidovudine is GZDV .
GZDV area under the curve ( AUC ) is about 3 - fold greater than the zidovudine AUC .
Urinary recovery of zidovudine and GZDV accounts for 14 % and 74 % of the dose following oral administration , respectively .
A second metabolite , 3 ′ - amino - 3 ′ - deoxythymidine ( AMT ) , has been identified in plasma .
The AMT AUC was one fifth of the zidovudine AUC .
Table 3 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters * for Lamivudine and Zidovudine in AdultsParameter Lamivudine Zidovudine Oral bioavailability ( % ) 86 ± 16 N = 12 64 ± 10 n = 5 Apparent volume of distribution ( L / kg ) 1 . 3 ± 0 . 4 N = 20 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 n = 8 Plasma protein binding ( % ) < 36 < 38 CSF : plasma ratio † 0 . 12 [ 0 . 04 to 0 . 47 ] n = 38 ‡ 0 . 60 [ 0 . 04 to 2 . 62 ] N = 39 § Systemic clearance ( L / hr / kg ) 0 . 33 ± 0 . 06 N = 20 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 n = 6 Renal clearance ( L / hr / kg ) 0 . 22 ± 0 . 06 N = 20 0 . 34 ± 0 . 05 n = 9 Elimination half - life ( hr ) ║ 5 to 7 0 . 5 to 3 * Data presented as mean ± standard deviation except where noted .
† Median [ range ] .
‡ Children .
§ Adults .
║ Approximate range .
Effect of Food on Absorption of COMBIVIR : COMBIVIR may be administered with or without food .
The extent of lamivudine and zidovudine absorption ( AUC ) following administration of COMBIVIR with food was similar when compared to fasting healthy subjects ( n = 24 ) .
Special Populations : Pregnancy : See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) .
COMBIVIR : No data are available .
Zidovudine : Zidovudine pharmacokinetics has been studied in a Phase 1 study of 8 women during the last trimester of pregnancy .
As pregnancy progressed , there was no evidence of drug accumulation .
The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine was similar to that of nonpregnant adults .
Consistent with passive transmission of the drug across the placenta , zidovudine concentrations in neonatal plasma at birth were essentially equal to those in maternal plasma at delivery .
Although data are limited , methadone maintenance therapy in 5 pregnant women did not appear to alter zidovudine pharmacokinetics .
In a nonpregnant adult population , a potential for interaction has been identified .
Nursing Mothers : See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) .
Pediatric Patients : COMBIVIR should not be administered to pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg .
Geriatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of lamivudine and zidovudine have not been studied in patients over 65 years of age .
Gender : A pharmacokinetic study in healthy male ( n = 12 ) and female ( n = 12 ) subjects showed no gender differences in zidovudine exposure ( AUC ∞ ) or lamivudine AUC ∞ normalized for body weight .
Race : Lamivudine : There are no significant racial differences in lamivudine pharmacokinetics .
Zidovudine : The pharmacokinetics of zidovudine with respect to race have not been determined .
Drug Interactions : See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 0 ) .
No drug interaction studies have been conducted using COMBIVIR Tablets .
However , Table 4 presents drug interaction information for the individual components of COMBIVIR .
Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine : No clinically significant alterations in lamivudine or zidovudine pharmacokinetics were observed in 12 asymptomatic HIV - 1 - infected adult patients given a single dose of zidovudine ( 200 mg ) in combination with multiple doses of lamivudine ( 300 mg q 12 hr ) .
Table 4 .
Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Lamivudine and Zidovudine AUC * Note : ROUTINE DOSE MODIFICATION OF LAMIVUDINE AND ZIDOVUDINE IS NOT WARRANTED WITH COADMINISTRATION OF THE FOLLOWING DRUGS .
Drugs That May Alter Lamivudine Blood Concentrations Coadministered Drug and Dose Lamivudine Dose n Lamivudine Concentrations Concentration of Coadministered Drug AUC Variability Nelfinavir 750 mg q 8 hr x 7 to 10 days single 150 mg 11 ↑ AUC 10 % 95 % CI : 1 % to 20 % ↔ Trimethoprim 160 mg / Sulfamethoxazole 800 mg daily x 5 days single 300 mg 14 ↑ AUC 43 % 90 % CI : 32 % to 55 % ↔ Drugs That May Alter Zidovudine Blood Concentrations Coadministered Drug and Dose Zidovudine Dose n Zidovudine Concentrations Concentration of Coadministered Drug AUC Variability Atovaquone 750 mg q 12 hr with food 200 mg q 8 hr 14 ↑ AUC 31 % Range 23 % to 78 % † ↔ Fluconazole 400 mg daily 200 mg q 8 hr 12 ↑ AUC 74 % 95 % CI : 54 % to 98 % Not Reported Methadone 30 to 90 mg daily 200 mg q 4 hr 9 ↑ AUC 43 % Range 16 % to 64 % † ↔ Nelfinavir 750 mg q 8 hr x 7 to 10 days single 200 mg 11 ↓ AUC 35 % Range 28 % to 41 % ↔ Probenecid 500 mg q 6 hr x 2 days 2 mg / kg q 8 hr x 3 days 3 ↑ AUC 106 % Range 100 % to 170 % † Not Assessed Rifampin 600 mg daily x 14 days 200 mg q 8 hr X 14 days 8 ↓ AUC 47 % 90 % CI : 41 % to 53 % Not Assessed Ritonavir 300 mg q 6 hr x 4 days 200 mg q 8 hr x 4 days 9 ↓ AUC 25 % 95 % CI : 15 % to 34 % ↔ Valproic acid 250 mg or 500 mg q 8 hr x 4 days 100 mg q 8 hr x 4 days 6 ↑ AUC 80 % Range 64 % to 130 % † Not Assessed ↑ = Increase ; ↓ = Decrease ; ↔ = no significant change ; AUC = area under the concentration versus time curve ; CI = confidence interval .
* This table is not all inclusive .
† Estimated range of percent difference .
Ribavirin : In vitro data indicate ribavirin reduces phosphorylation of lamivudine , stavudine , and zidovudine .
However , no pharmacokinetic ( e . g . , plasma concentrations or intracellular triphosphorylated active metabolite concentrations ) or pharmacodynamic ( e . g . , loss of HIV - 1 / HCV virologic suppression ) interaction was observed when ribavirin and lamivudine ( n = 18 ) , stavudine ( n = 10 ) , or zidovudine ( n = 6 ) were coadministered as part of a multi - drug regimen to HIV - 1 / HCV co - infected patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action : Lamivudine : Intracellularly , lamivudine is phosphorylated to its active 5 ′ - triphosphate metabolite , lamivudine triphosphate ( 3 TC - TP ) .
The principal mode of action of 3 TC - TP is inhibition of reverse transcriptase ( RT ) via DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analogue .
3 TC - TP is a weak inhibitor of cellular DNA polymerases α , β , and γ .
Zidovudine : Intracellularly , zidovudine is phosphorylated to its active 5 ′ - triphosphate metabolite , zidovudine triphosphate ( ZDV - TP ) .
The principal mode of action of ZDV - TP is inhibition of RT via DNA chain termination after incorporation of the nucleotide analogue .
ZDV - TP is a weak inhibitor of the cellular DNA polymerases α and γ and has been reported to be incorporated into the DNA of cells in culture .
Antiviral Activity : Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine : In HIV - 1 – infected MT - 4 cells , lamivudine in combination with zidovudine at various ratios exhibited synergistic antiretroviral activity .
Lamivudine : The antiviral activity of lamivudine against HIV - 1 was assessed in a number of cell lines ( including monocytes and fresh human peripheral blood lymphocytes ) using standard susceptibility assays .
EC50 values ( 50 % effective concentrations ) were in the range of 0 . 003 to 15 μM ( 1 μM = 0 . 23 mcg / mL ) .
HIV - 1 from therapy - naive subjects with no amino acid substitutions associated with resistance gave median EC50 values of 0 . 429 µM ( range : 0 . 200 to 2 . 007 µM ) from Virco ( n = 92 baseline samples from COLA40263 ) and 2 . 35 µM ( 1 . 37 to 3 . 68 µM ) from Monogram Biosciences ( n = 135 baseline samples from ESS30009 ) .
The EC50 values of lamivudine against different HIV - 1 clades ( A - G ) ranged from 0 . 001 to 0 . 120 µM , and against HIV - 2 isolates from 0 . 003 to 0 . 120 μM in peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
Ribavirin ( 50 μM ) decreased the anti - HIV - 1 activity of lamivudine by 3 . 5 fold in MT - 4 cells .
Zidovudine : The antiviral activity of zidovudine against HIV - 1 was assessed in a number of cell lines ( including monocytes and fresh human peripheral blood lymphocytes ) .
The EC50 and EC90 values for zidovudine were 0 . 01 to 0 . 49 µM ( 1 μM = 0 . 27 mcg / mL ) and 0 . 1 to 9 μM , respectively .
HIV - 1 from therapy - naive subjects with no amino acid substitutions associated with resistance gave median EC50 values of 0 . 011 µM ( range : 0 . 005 to 0 . 110 µM ) from Virco ( n = 92 baseline samples from COLA40263 ) and 0 . 0017 µM ( 0 . 006 to 0 . 0340 µM ) from Monogram Biosciences ( n = 135 baseline samples from ESS30009 ) .
The EC50 values of zidovudine against different HIV - 1 clades ( A - G ) ranged from 0 . 00018 to 0 . 02 μM , and against HIV - 2 isolates from 0 . 00049 to 0 . 004 μM .
In cell culture drug combination studies , zidovudine demonstrates synergistic activity with the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs ) abacavir , didanosine , lamivudine , and zalcitabine ; the non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NNRTIs ) delavirdine and nevirapine ; and the protease inhibitors ( PIs ) indinavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , and saquinavir ; and additive activity with interferon alfa .
Ribavirin has been found to inhibit the phosphorylation of zidovudine in cell culture .
Resistance : Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine Administered As Separate Formulations : In patients receiving lamivudine monotherapy or combination therapy with lamivudine plus zidovudine , HIV - 1 isolates from most patients became phenotypically and genotypically resistant to lamivudine within 12 weeks .
In some patients harboring zidovudine - resistant virus at baseline , phenotypic sensitivity to zidovudine was restored by 12 weeks of treatment with lamivudine and zidovudine .
Combination therapy with lamivudine plus zidovudine delayed the emergence of amino acid substitutions conferring resistance to zidovudine .
HIV - 1 strains resistant to both lamivudine and zidovudine have been isolated from patients after prolonged lamivudine / zidovudine therapy .
Dual resistance required the presence of multiple amino acid substitutions , the most essential of which may be G333E .
The incidence of dual resistance and the duration of combination therapy required before dual resistance occurs are unknown .
Lamivudine : Lamivudine - resistant isolates of HIV - 1 have been selected in cell culture and have also been recovered from patients treated with lamivudine or lamivudine plus zidovudine .
Genotypic analysis of isolates selected in cell culture and recovered from lamivudine - treated patients showed that the resistance was due to a specific amino acid substitution in the HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase at codon 184 changing the methionine to either isoleucine or valine ( M184V / I ) .
Zidovudine : HIV - 1 isolates with reduced susceptibility to zidovudine have been selected in cell culture and were also recovered from patients treated with zidovudine .
Genotypic analyses of the isolates selected in cell culture and recovered from zidovudine - treated patients showed substitutions in the HIV - 1 RT gene resulting in 6 amino acid substitutions ( M41L , D67N , K70R , L210W , T215Y or F , and K219Q ) that confer zidovudine resistance .
In general , higher levels of resistance were associated with greater number of amino acid substitutions .
Cross - Resistance : Cross - resistance has been observed among NRTIs .
Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine : Cross - resistance between lamivudine and zidovudine has not been reported .
In some patients treated with lamivudine alone or in combination with zidovudine , isolates have emerged with a substitution at codon 184 , which confers resistance to lamivudine .
Cross - resistance to abacavir , didanosine , tenofovir , and zalcitabine has been observed in some patients harboring lamivudine - resistant HIV - 1 isolates .
In some patients treated with zidovudine plus didanosine or zalcitabine , isolates resistant to multiple drugs , including lamivudine , have emerged ( see under Zidovudine below ) .
Lamivudine : See Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine ( above ) .
Zidovudine : In a study of 167 HIV - 1 - infected patients , isolates ( n = 2 ) with multi - drug resistance to didanosine , lamivudine , stavudine , zalcitabine , and zidovudine were recovered from patients treated for ≥ 1 year with zidovudine plus didanosine or zidovudine plus zalcitabine .
The pattern of resistance - associated amino acid substitutions with such combination therapies was different ( A62V , V75I , F77L , F116Y , Q151M ) from the pattern with zidovudine monotherapy , with the Q151M substitution being most commonly associated with multi - drug resistance .
The substitution at codon 151 in combination with substitutions at 62 , 75 , 77 , and 116 results in a virus with reduced susceptibility to didanosine , lamivudine , stavudine , zalcitabine , and zidovudine .
Thymidine analogue mutations ( TAMs ) are selected by zidovudine and confer cross - resistance to abacavir , didanosine , stavudine , tenofovir , and zalcitabine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity : Lamivudine : Long - term carcinogenicity studies with lamivudine in mice and rats showed no evidence of carcinogenic potential at exposures up to 10 times ( mice ) and 58 times ( rats ) those observed in humans at the recommended therapeutic dose for HIV - 1 infection .
Zidovudine : Zidovudine was administered orally at 3 dosage levels to separate groups of mice and rats ( 60 females and 60 males in each group ) .
Initial single daily doses were 30 , 60 , and 120 mg / kg / day in mice and 80 , 220 , and 600 mg / kg / day in rats .
The doses in mice were reduced to 20 , 30 , and 40 mg / kg / day after day 90 because of treatment - related anemia , whereas in rats only the high dose was reduced to 450 mg / kg / day on day 91 and then to 300 mg / kg / day on day 279 .
In mice , 7 late - appearing ( after 19 months ) vaginal neoplasms ( 5 nonmetastasizing squamous cell carcinomas , 1 squamous cell papilloma , and 1 squamous polyp ) occurred in animals given the highest dose .
One late - appearing squamous cell papilloma occurred in the vagina of a middle - dose animal .
No vaginal tumors were found at the lowest dose .
In rats , 2 late - appearing ( after 20 months ) , nonmetastasizing vaginal squamous cell carcinomas occurred in animals given the highest dose .
No vaginal tumors occurred at the low or middle dose in rats .
No other drug - related tumors were observed in either sex of either species .
At doses that produced tumors in mice and rats , the estimated drug exposure ( as measured by AUC ) was approximately 3 times ( mouse ) and 24 times ( rat ) the estimated human exposure at the recommended therapeutic dose of 100 mg every 4 hours .
It is not known how predictive the results of rodent carcinogenicity studies may be for humans .
Mutagenicity : Lamivudine : Lamivudine was mutagenic in an L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay and clastogenic in a cytogenetic assay using cultured human lymphocytes .
Lamivudine was negative in a microbial mutagenicity assay , in an in vitro cell transformation assay , in a rat micronucleus test , in a rat bone marrow cytogenetic assay , and in an assay for unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat liver .
Zidovudine : Zidovudine was mutagenic in an L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay , positive in an in vitro cell transformation assay , clastogenic in a cytogenetic assay using cultured human lymphocytes , and positive in mouse and rat micronucleus tests after repeated doses .
It was negative in a cytogenetic study in rats given a single dose .
Impairment of Fertility : Lamivudine : In a study of reproductive performance , lamivudine , administered to male and female rats at doses up to 130 times the usual adult dose based on body surface area considerations , revealed no evidence of impaired fertility ( judged by conception rates ) and no effect on the survival , growth , and development to weaning of the offspring .
Zidovudine : Zidovudine , administered to male and female rats at doses up to 7 times the usual adult dose based on body surface area considerations , had no effect on fertility judged by conception rates .
13 . 2 Reproductive and Developmental Toxicology Studies Lamivudine : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at orally administered doses up to 4 , 000 mg / kg / day and 1 , 000 mg / kg / day , respectively , producing plasma levels up to approximately 35 times that for the adult HIV dose .
No evidence of teratogenicity due to lamivudine was observed .
Evidence of early embryolethality was seen in the rabbit at exposure levels similar to those observed in humans , but there was no indication of this effect in the rat at exposure levels up to 35 times those in humans .
Studies in pregnant rats and rabbits showed that lamivudine is transferred to the fetus through the placenta .
Zidovudine : Oral teratology studies in the rat and in the rabbit at doses up to 500 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of teratogenicity with zidovudine .
Zidovudine treatment resulted in embryo / fetal toxicity as evidenced by an increase in the incidence of fetal resorptions in rats given 150 or 450 mg / kg / day and rabbits given 500 mg / kg / day .
The doses used in the teratology studies resulted in peak zidovudine plasma concentrations ( after one half of the daily dose ) in rats 66 to 226 times , and in rabbits 12 to 87 times , mean steady - state peak human plasma concentrations ( after one sixth of the daily dose ) achieved with the recommended daily dose ( 100 mg every 4 hours ) .
In an in vitro experiment with fertilized mouse oocytes , zidovudine exposure resulted in a dose - dependent reduction in blastocyst formation .
In an additional teratology study in rats , a dose of 3 , 000 mg / kg / day ( very near the oral median lethal dose in rats of 3 , 683 mg / kg ) caused marked maternal toxicity and an increase in the incidence of fetal malformations .
This dose resulted in peak zidovudine plasma concentrations 350 times peak human plasma concentrations .
( Estimated area under the curve [ AUC ] in rats at this dose level was 300 times the daily AUC in humans given 600 mg / day . )
No evidence of teratogenicity was seen in this experiment at doses of 600 mg / kg / day or less .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES There have been no clinical trials conducted with COMBIVIR .
See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) for information about bioequivalence .
One COMBIVIR Tablet given twice daily is an alternative regimen to EPIVIR Tablets 150 mg twice daily plus RETROVIR 600 mg per day in divided doses .
14 . 1 Adults Lamivudine Plus Zidovudine : The NUCB3007 ( CAESAR ) study was conducted using EPIVIR 150 - mg Tablets ( 150 mg twice daily ) and RETROVIR 100 - mg Capsules ( 2 x 100 mg 3 times daily ) .
CAESAR was a multi - center , double - blind , placebo - controlled study comparing continued current therapy ( zidovudine alone [ 62 % of patients ] or zidovudine with didanosine or zalcitabine [ 38 % of patients ] ) to the addition of EPIVIR or EPIVIR plus an investigational non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor , randomized 1 : 2 : 1 .
A total of 1 , 816 HIV - 1 - infected adults with 25 to 250 ( median 122 ) CD4 cells / mm3 at baseline were enrolled : median age was 36 years , 87 % were male , 84 % were nucleoside - experienced , and 16 % were therapy - naive .
The median duration on study was 12 months .
Results are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Number of Patients ( % ) With At Least 1 HIV - 1 Disease - Progression Event or DeathEndpoint Current Therapy ( n = 460 ) EPIVIR plus Current Therapy ( n = 896 ) EPIVIR plus a NNRTI * plus Current Therapy ( n = 460 ) HIV - 1 progression or death 90 ( 19 . 6 % ) 86 ( 9 . 6 % ) 41 ( 8 . 9 % ) Death 27 ( 5 . 9 % ) 23 ( 2 . 6 % ) 14 ( 3 . 0 % ) * An investigational non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor not approved in the United States .
14 . 2 Prevention of Maternal - Fetal HIV - 1 Transmission The utility of zidovudine alone for the prevention of maternal - fetal HIV - 1 transmission was demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial conducted in HIV - 1 - infected pregnant women with CD4 + cell counts of 200 to 1 , 818 cells / mm3 ( median in the treated group : 560 cells / mm3 ) who had little or no previous exposure to zidovudine .
Oral zidovudine was initiated between 14 and 34 weeks of gestation ( median 11 weeks of therapy ) followed by IV administration of zidovudine during labor and delivery .
Following birth , neonates received oral zidovudine syrup for 6 weeks .
The study showed a statistically significant difference in the incidence of HIV - 1 infection in the neonates ( based on viral culture from peripheral blood ) between the group receiving zidovudine and the group receiving placebo .
Of 363 neonates evaluated in the study , the estimated risk of HIV - 1 infection was 7 . 8 % in the group receiving zidovudine and 24 . 9 % in the placebo group , a relative reduction in transmission risk of 68 . 7 % .
Zidovudine was well tolerated by mothers and infants .
There was no difference in pregnancy - related adverse events between the treatment groups .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING COMBIVIR Tablets , containing 150 mg lamivudine and 300 mg zidovudine , are white , scored , film - coated , modified - capsule - shaped tablets , debossed on both tablet faces , such that when broken in half , the full “ GXFC3 ” code is present on both halves of the tablet ( “ GX ” on one face and “ FC3 ” on the opposite face of the tablet ) .
They are available as follows : 6 Tablets / Bottle ( NDC 21695 - 846 - 06 ) .
Store between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° and 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Advice for the Patient Neutropenia and Anemia : Patients should be informed that the important toxicities associated with zidovudine are neutropenia and / or anemia .
They should be told of the extreme importance of having their blood counts followed closely while on therapy , especially for patients with advanced HIV - 1 disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Co - infection With HIV - 1 and HBV : Patients co - infected with HIV - 1 and HBV should be informed that deterioration of liver disease has occurred in some cases when treatment with lamivudine was discontinued .
Patients should be advised to discuss any changes in regimen with their physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Drug Interactions : Patients should be cautioned about the use of other medications , including ganciclovir , interferon alfa , and ribavirin , which may exacerbate the toxicity of zidovudine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Redistribution / Accumulation of Body Fat : Patients should be informed that redistribution or accumulation of body fat may occur in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy and that the cause and long - term health effects of these conditions are not known at this time [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Information About Therapy with COMBIVIR : COMBIVIR is not a cure for HIV - 1 infection and patients may continue to experience illnesses associated with HIV - 1 infection , including opportunistic infections .
Patients should be advised that the use of COMBIVIR has not been shown to reduce the risk of transmission of HIV - 1 to others through sexual contact or blood contamination .
Patients should be advised of the importance of taking COMBIVIR exactly as it is prescribed .
COMBIVIR should not be coadministered with drugs containing lamivudine , zidovudine , or emtricitabine , including EPIVIR ( lamivudine ) , EPIVIR - HBV ( lamivudine ) , RETROVIR ( zidovudine ) , EPZICOM ( abacavir sulfate and lamivudine ) , TRIZIVIR ( abacavir sulfate , lamivudine , and zidovudine ) , ATRIPLA ( efavirenz , emtricitabine , and tenofovir ) , EMTRIVA ( emtricitabine ) , or TRUVADA ( emtricitabine and tenofovir ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
EPIVIR , EPIVIR - HBV , RETROVIR , EPZICOM , and TRIZIVIR are registered trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline .
ATRIPLA , EMTRIVA , and TRUVADA are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse GlaxoSmithKline or its products .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Lamivudine is manufactured under agreement from Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Basingstoke , UK © 2009 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 21695 - 846 - 06 COMBIVIR ® ( lamivudine and zidovudine ) Tablets 150 mg / 300 mg Rx only 6 Tablets Each tablet contains 150 mg of lamivudine and 300 mg of zidovudine .
Store between 2 o and 30 oC ( 36 o and 86 oF ) .
See prescribing Information for dosage Information .
Do not use if printed safety seal under cap is broken or missing .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Lamivudine is manufactured under agreement from Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Basingstoke , UK Made in UK 10000000065308 Rev . 2 / 09 Repackage by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
