DESCRIPTION Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of Dobutamine Hydrochloride , USP and Dextrose , USP in Water for Injection , USP .
Dobutamine hydrochloride is chemically designated as ( ± ) - 4 - [ 2 - [ [ 3 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) - 1 - methylpropyl ] amino ] ethyl ] - pyrocatechol hydrochloride .
It is a synthetic catecholamine .
Dextrose Hydrous , USP is chemically designated as D - Glucopyranose monohydrate .
Structural formulas are shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous use only .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid .
Sodium bisulfite is added as a stabilizer .
The solution is intended for single use only .
When smaller doses are required , the unused portion should be discarded .
Composition , osmolarity , pH and caloric content are given in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Composition [ 1 ] Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection .
Dobutamine ( mg / Container ) Dobutamine ( mcg / mL ) Dextrose Hydrous , USP ( g / L ) Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc ) [ 2 ] pH kcal / L 250 mg / 250 mL 1000 50 259 3 . 5 ( 2 . 5 to 5 . 5 ) 170 500 mg / 250 mL 2000 50 266 3 . 5 ( 2 . 5 to 5 . 5 ) 170 1000 mg / 250 mL 4000 50 280 3 . 5 ( 2 . 5 to 5 . 5 ) 170 [ 1 ] Approximately 5 mEq / L sodium bisulfite is added as a stabilizer .
[ 2 ] Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
This VIAFLEX PLUS plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 2207 Plastic ) .
VIAFLEX containers , including VIAFLEX PLUS containers , are made of flexible plastic and are for parenteral use .
VIAFLEX PLUS on the container indicates the presence of a drug additive in a drug vehicle .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million ; however , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dobutamine hydrochloride is a direct - acting inotropic agent whose primary activity results from stimulation of the beta - receptors of the heart while producing comparatively mild chronotropic , hypertensive , arrhythmogenic , and vasodilative effects .
It does not cause the release of endogenous norepinephrine , as does dopamine .
In animal studies , dobutamine produces less increase in heart rate and less decrease in peripheral vascular resistance for a given inotropic effect than does isoproterenol .
In patients with depressed cardiac function , both dobutamine and isoproterenol increase the cardiac output to a similar degree .
In the case of dobutamine , this increase is usually not accompanied by marked increases in heart rate ( although tachycardia is occasionally observed ) , and the cardiac stroke volume is usually increased .
In contrast , isoproterenol increases the cardiac index primarily by increasing the heart rate while stroke volume changes little or declines .
Facilitation of atrioventricular conduction has been observed in human electrophysiologic studies and in patients with atrial fibrillation .
Systemic vascular resistance is usually decreased with administration of dobutamine .
Occasionally , minimum vasoconstriction has been observed .
Most clinical experience with dobutamine is short - term - not more than several hours in duration .
In the limited number of patients who were studied for 24 , 48 , and 72 hours , a persistent increase in cardiac output occurred in some , whereas output returned toward baseline values in others .
The onset of action of dobutamine is within one to two minutes ; however , as much as ten minutes may be required to obtain the peak effect of a particular infusion rate .
The plasma half - life of dobutamine in humans is two minutes .
The principal routes of metabolism are methylation of the catechol and conjugation .
In human urine , the major excretion products are the conjugates of dobutamine and 3 - O - methyl dobutamine .
The 3 - O - methyl derivative of dobutamine is inactive .
Alteration of synaptic concentrations of catecholamines with either reserpine or tricyclic antidepressants does not alter the actions of dobutamine in animals , which indicates that the actions of dobutamine are not dependent on presynaptic mechanisms .
The effective infusion rate of dobutamine varies widely from patient to patient , and titration is always necessary ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
At least in pediatric patients , dobutamine - induced increases in cardiac output and systemic pressure are generally seen , in any given patient , at lower infusion rates than those that cause substantial tachycardia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Dextrose provides a source of calories .
Dextrose is readily metabolized , may decrease losses of body protein and nitrogen , promotes glycogen deposition and decreases or prevents ketosis if sufficient doses are provided .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection is indicated when parenteral therapy is necessary for inotropic support in the short - term treatment of patients with cardiac decompensation due to depressed contractility resulting either from organic heart disease or from cardiac surgical procedures .
Experience with intravenous dobutamine in controlled trials does not extend beyond 48 hours of repeated boluses and / or continuous infusions .
Whether given orally , continuously intravenously , or intermittently intravenously , neither dobutamine nor any other cyclic - AMP - dependent inotrope has been shown in controlled trials to be safe or effective in the long - term treatment of congestive heart failure .
In controlled trials of chronic oral therapy with various such agents , symptoms were not consistently alleviated , and the cyclic - AMP - dependent inotropes were consistently associated with increased risks of hospitalization and death .
Patients with NYHA Class IV symptoms appeared to be at particular risk .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis and in patients who have shown previous manifestations of hypersensitivity to dobutamine .
Solutions containing dextrose may be contraindicated in patients with known allergy to corn or corn products .
WARNINGS Increase in Heart Rate or Blood Pressure Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection may cause a marked increase in heart rate or blood pressure , especially systolic pressure .
Approximately 10 % of adult patients in clinical studies have had rate increases of 30 beats / minute or more , and about 7 . 5 % have had a 50 - mm Hg or greater increase in systolic pressure .
Usually , reduction of dosage reverses these effects .
Because dobutamine facilitates atrioventricular conduction , patients with atrial fibrillation are at risk of developing rapid ventricular response .
Patients with preexisting hypertension appear to face an increased risk of developing an exaggerated pressor response .
In patients who have atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response , a digitalis preparation should be used prior to institution of therapy with Dobutamine in D5W .
Ectopic Activity Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection may precipitate or exacerbate ventricular ectopic activity , but it rarely has caused ventricular tachycardia .
Hypersensitivity Reactions suggestive of hypersensitivity associated with administration of dobutamine including skin rash , fever , eosinophilia , and bronchospasm , have been reported occasionally .
Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes , in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Solutions containing dextrose should not be administered through the same administration set as blood , as this may result in pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
The intravenous administration of solutions may cause fluid overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the injections .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration of the injections .
Excess administration of potassium - free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
PRECAUTIONS General During the administration of Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection , as with any adrenergic agent , ECG and blood pressure should be continuously monitored .
In addition , pulmonary wedge pressure and cardiac output should be monitored whenever possible to aid in the safe and effective infusion of dobutamine .
Hypovolemia should be corrected with suitable volume expanders before treatment with dobutamine is instituted .
Animal studies indicate that dobutamine may be ineffective if the patient has recently received a beta - blocking drug .
In such a case , the peripheral vascular resistance may increase .
No improvement may be observed in the presence of marked mechanical obstruction , such as severe valvular aortic stenosis .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
Usage Following Acute Myocardial Infarction Clinical experience with dobutamine following myocardial infarction has been insufficient to establish the safety of the drug for this use .
There is concern that any agent that increases contractile force and heart rate may increase the size of an infarction by intensifying ischemia , but it is not known whether dobutamine does so .
Drug Interactions There was no evidence of drug interactions in clinical studies in which dobutamine was administered concurrently with other drugs , including digitalis preparations , furosemide , spironolactone , lidocaine , glyceryl trinitrate , isosorbide dinitrate , morphine , atropine , heparin , protamine , potassium chloride , folic acid , and acetaminophen .
Preliminary studies indicate that the concomitant use of dobutamine and nitroprusside results in a higher cardiac output and , usually , a lower pulmonary wedge pressure than when either drug is used alone .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of dobutamine or the potential of the drug to affect fertility adversely have not been performed .
Pregnancy Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to dobutamine .
The drug , however , has not been administered to pregnant women and should be used only when the expected benefits clearly outweigh the potential risks to the fetus .
Pediatric Use Dobutamine has been shown to increase cardiac output and systemic pressure in pediatric patients of every age group .
In premature neonates , however , dobutamine is less effective than dopamine in raising systemic blood pressure without causing undue tachycardia , and dobutamine has not been shown to provide any added benefit when given to such infants already receiving optimal infusions of dopamine .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of dobutamine injection did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Increased Heart Rate , Blood Pressure , and Ventricular Ectopic Activity A 10 to 20 - mm Hg increase in systolic blood pressure and an increase in heart rate of 5 to 15 beats / minute have been noted in most patients ( see WARNINGS regarding exaggerated chronotropic and pressor effects ) .
Approximately 5 % of adult patients have had increased premature ventricular beats during infusions .
These effects are dose related .
Hypotension Precipitous decreases in blood pressure have occasionally been described in association with dobutamine therapy .
Decreasing the dose or discontinuing the infusion typically results in rapid return of blood pressure to baseline values .
In rare cases , however , intervention may be required and reversibility may not be immediate .
Stress Cardiomyopathy Stress cardiomyopathy has been reported with dobutamine in association with cardiac stress testing .
Reactions at Sites of Intravenous Infusion Phlebitis has occasionally been reported .
Local inflammatory changes have been described following inadvertent infiltration .
Miscellaneous Uncommon Effects The following adverse effects have been reported in 1 % to 3 % of adult patients : nausea , headache , anginal pain , nonspecific chest pain , palpitations , and shortness of breath .
Administration of dobutamine , like other catecholamines , has been associated with decreases in serum potassium concentrations , rarely to hypokalemic values .
OVERDOSAGE Overdoses of dobutamine have been reported rarely .
The following is provided to serve as a guide if such an overdose is encountered .
Signs and Symptoms Toxicity from dobutamine is usually due to excessive cardiac beta - receptor stimulation .
The duration of action of dobutamine is generally short ( T1 / 2 = two minutes ) because it is rapidly metabolized by catechol - O - methyltransferase .
The symptoms of toxicity may include anorexia , nausea , vomiting , tremor , anxiety , palpitations , headache , shortness of breath , and anginal and nonspecific chest pain .
The positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of dobutamine on the myocardium may cause hypertension , tachyarrhythmias , myocardial ischemia , and ventricular fibrillation .
Hypotension may result from vasodilation .
If the product is ingested , unpredictable absorption may occur from the mouth and the gastrointestinal tract .
Treatment To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
The initial actions to be taken in a dobutamine overdose are discontinuing administration , establishing an airway , and ensuring oxygenation and ventilation .
Resuscitative measures should be initiated promptly .
Severe ventricular tachyarrhythmias may be successfully treated with propranolol or lidocaine .
Hypertension usually responds to a reduction in dose or discontinuation of therapy .
Protect the patient ’ s airway and support ventilation and perfusion .
If needed , meticulously monitor and maintain , within acceptable limits , the patient ’ s vital signs , blood gases , serum electrolytes , etc .
Absorption of drugs from the gastrointestinal tract may be decreased by giving activated charcoal , which , in many cases , is more effective than emesis or lavage ; consider charcoal instead of or in addition to gastric emptying .
Repeated doses of charcoal over time may hasten elimination of some drugs that have been absorbed .
Safeguard the patient ’ s airway when employing gastric emptying or charcoal .
Forced diuresis , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or charcoal hemoperfusion have not been established as beneficial for an overdose of dobutamine .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection is administered intravenously through a suitable intravenous catheter or needle .
A calibrated electronic infusion device is recommended for controlling the rate of flow in mL / hour or drops / minute .
Infusion of dobutamine should be started at a low rate ( 0 . 5 - 1 . 0 mcg / kg / min ) and titrated at intervals of a few minutes , guided by the patient ’ s response , including systemic blood pressure , urine flow , frequency of ectopic activity , heart rate , and ( whenever possible ) measurements of cardiac output , central venous pressure , and / or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure .
In reported trials , the optimal infusion rates have varied from patient to patient , usually 2 - 20 mcg / kg / min but sometimes slightly outside of this range .
On rare occasions , infusion rates up to 40 mcg / kg / min have been required to obtain the desired effect .
Rates of infusion in mL / hour for dobutamine hydrochloride concentrations of 1 , 000 , 2 , 000 and 4 , 000 mcg / mL are in Table 2 .
This container system may be inappropriate for the dosage requirements of pediatric patients under 30 kg .
Other dosage forms may be more appropriate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection solutions may exhibit a pink color that , if present , will increase with time .
This color change is due to slight oxidation of the drug , but there is no significant loss of potency .
The rate of administration and the duration of therapy should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response , as determined by heart rate , presence of ectopic activity , blood pressure , urine flow , and , whenever possible , measurement of central venous or pulmonary wedge pressure and cardiac output .
Do not add supplementary medications to Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection .
Do not administer Dobutamine Hydrochloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection simultaneously with solutions containing sodium bicarbonate or strong alkaline solutions .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4562 NDC : 50090 - 4562 - 0 250 mL in a BAG Dobutamine Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
