WARNING : Disulfiram should never be administered to a patient when he is in a state of alcohol intoxication , or without his full knowledge .
The physician should instruct relatives accordingly .
DESCRIPTION : Disulfiram is an alcohol antagonist drug .
CHEMICAL NAME : bis ( diethylthiocarbamoyl ) disulfide .
STRUCTURAL FORMULA : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Disulfiram occurs as a white to off - white , odorless , and almost tasteless powder , soluble in water to the extent of about 20 mg in 100 mL , and in alcohol to the extent of about 3 . 8 g in 100 mL .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 250 mg or 500 mg disulfiram , USP .
Tablets also contain colloidal silicon dioxide , anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Disulfiram produces a sensitivity to alcohol which results in a highly unpleasant reaction when the patient under treatment ingests even small amounts of alcohol .
Disulfiram blocks the oxidation of alcohol at the acetaldehyde stage .
During alcohol metabolism following disulfiram intake , the concentration of acetaldehyde occurring in the blood may be 5 to 10 times higher than that found during metabolism of the same amount of alcohol alone .
Accumulation of acetaldehyde in the blood produces a complex of highly unpleasant symptoms referred to hereinafter as the disulfiram - alcohol reaction .
This reaction , which is proportional to the dosage of both disulfiram and alcohol , will persist as long as alcohol is being metabolized .
Disulfiram does not appear to influence the rate of alcohol elimination from the body .
Disulfiram is absorbed slowly from the gastrointestinal tract and is eliminated slowly from the body .
One ( or even two ) weeks after a patient has taken his last dose of disulfiram , ingestion of alcohol may produce unpleasant symptoms .
Prolonged administration of disulfiram does not produce tolerance ; the longer a patient remains on therapy , the more exquisitely sensitive he becomes to alcohol .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Disulfiram is an aid in the management of selected chronic alcohol patients who want to remain in a state of enforced sobriety so that supportive and psychotherapeutic treatment may be applied to best advantage .
Disulfiram is not a cure for alcoholism .
When used alone , without proper motivation and supportive therapy , it is unlikely that it will have any substantive effect on the drinking pattern of the chronic alcoholic .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Patients who are receiving or have recently received metronidazole , paraldehyde , alcohol , or alcohol - containing preparations , e . g . , cough syrups , tonics and the like , should not be given disulfiram .
Disulfiram is contraindicated in the presence of severe myocardial disease or coronary occlusion , psychoses , and hypersensitivity to disulfiram or to other thiuram derivatives used in pesticides and rubber vulcanization .
WARNINGS : Disulfiram should never be administered to a patient when he is in a state of alcohol intoxication , or without his full knowledge .
The physician should instruct relatives accordingly .
The patient must be fully informed of the disulfiram - alcohol reaction .
He must be strongly cautioned against surreptitious drinking while taking the drug , and he must be fully aware of the possible consequences .
He should be warned to avoid alcohol in disguised forms , i . e . , in sauces , vinegars , cough mixtures , and even in aftershave lotions and back rubs .
He should also be warned that reactions may occur with alcohol up to 14 days after ingesting disulfiram .
The Disulfiram - Alcohol Reaction : Disulfiram plus alcohol , even small amounts , produce flushing , throbbing in head and neck , throbbing headache , respiratory difficulty , nausea , copious vomiting , sweating , thirst , chest pain , palpitation , dyspnea , hyperventilation , tachycardia , hypotension , syncope , marked uneasiness , weakness , vertigo , blurred vision , and confusion .
In severe reactions there may be respiratory depression , cardiovascular collapse , arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , acute congestive heart failure , unconsciousness , convulsions , and death .
The intensity of the reaction varies with each individual , but is generally proportional to the amounts of disulfiram and alcohol ingested .
Mild reactions may occur in the sensitive individual when the blood alcohol concentration is increased to as little as 5 to 10 mg per 100 mL .
Symptoms are fully developed at 50 mg per 100 mL , and unconsciousness usually results when the blood alcohol level reaches 125 to 150 mg .
The duration of the reaction varies from 30 to 60 minutes , to several hours in the more severe cases , or as long as there is alcohol in the blood .
Concomitant Conditions : Because of the possibility of an accidental disulfiram - alcohol reaction , disulfiram should be used with extreme caution in patients with any of the following conditions : diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , epilepsy , cerebral damage , chronic and acute nephritis , hepatic cirrhosis or insufficiency .
PRECAUTIONS : Patients with a history of rubber contact dermatitis should be evaluated for hypersensitivity to thiuram derivatives before receiving disulfiram ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Alcoholism may accompany or be followed by dependence on narcotics or sedatives .
Barbiturates and disulfiram have been administered concurrently without untoward effects ; the possibility of initiating a new abuse should be considered .
Hepatic toxicity including hepatic failure resulting in transplantation or death have been reported .
Severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with disulfiram therapy may develop even after many months of therapy .
Hepatic toxicity has occurred in patients with or without prior history of abnormal liver function .
Patients should be advised to immediately notify their physician of any early symptoms of hepatitis , such as fatigue , weakness , malaise , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , jaundice , or dark urine .
Baseline and follow - up liver function tests ( 10 - 14 days ) are suggested to detect any hepatic dysfunction that may result with disulfiram therapy .
In addition , a complete blood count and serum chemistries , including liver function tests , should be monitored .
Patients taking disulfiram tablets should not be exposed to ethylene dibromide or its vapors .
This precaution is based on preliminary results of animal research currently in progress that suggest a toxic interaction between inhaled ethylene dibromide and ingested disulfiram resulting in a higher incidence of tumors and mortality in rats .
A correlation between this finding and humans , however , has not been demonstrated .
Drug Interactions : Disulfiram appears to decrease the rate at which certain drugs are metabolized and therefore may increase the blood levels and the possibility of clinical toxicity of drugs given concomitantly .
DISULFIRAM SHOULD BE USED WITH CAUTION IN THOSE PATIENTS RECEIVING PHENYTOIN AND ITS CONGENERS , SINCE THE CONCOMITANT ADMINISTRATION OF THESE TWO DRUGS CAN LEAD TO PHENYTOIN INTOXICATION .
PRIOR TO ADMINISTERING DISULFIRAM TO A PATIENT ON PHENYTOIN THERAPY , A BASELINE PHENYTOIN SERUM LEVEL SHOULD BE OBTAINED .
SUBSEQUENT TO INITIATION OF DISULFIRAM THERAPY , SERUM LEVELS OF PHENYTOIN SHOULD BE DETERMINED ON DIFFERENT DAYS FOR EVIDENCE OF AN INCREASE OR FOR A CONTINUING RISE IN LEVELS .
INCREASED PHENYTOIN LEVELS SHOULD BE TREATED WITH APPROPRIATE DOSAGE ADJUSTMENT .
It may be necessary to adjust the dosage of oral anticoagulants upon beginning or stopping disulfiram , since disulfiram may prolong prothrombin time .
Patients taking isoniazid when disulfiram is given should be observed for the appearance of unsteady gait or marked changes in mental status , the disulfiram should be discontinued if such signs appear .
In rats , simultaneous ingestion of disulfiram and nitrite in the diet for 78 weeks has been reported to cause tumors , and it has been suggested that disulfiram may react with nitrites in the rat stomach to form a nitrosamine , which is tumorigenic .
Disulfiram alone in the rat ’ s diet did not lead to such tumors .
The relevance of this finding to humans is not known at this time .
Usage in Pregnancy : The safe use of this drug in pregnancy has not been established .
Therefore , disulfiram should be used during pregnancy only when , in the judgement of the physician , the probable benefits outweigh the possible risks .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , disulfiram should not be given to nursing mothers .
Geriatric Use : A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of disulfiram included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . )
OPTIC NEURITIS , PERIPHERAL NEURITIS , POLYNEURITIS , AND PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY MAY OCCUR FOLLOWING ADMINISTRATION OF DISULFIRAM .
Multiple cases of hepatitis , including both cholestatic and fulminant hepatitis , as well as hepatic failure resulting in transplantation or death , have been reported with administration of disulfiram .
Occasional skin eruptions are , as a rule , readily controlled by concomitant administration of an antihistaminic drug .
In a small number of patients , a transient mild drowsiness , fatigability , impotence , headache , acneform eruptions , allergic dermatitis , or a metallic or garlic - like aftertaste may be experienced during the first two weeks of therapy .
These complaints usually disappear spontaneously with the continuation of therapy , or with reduced dosage .
Psychotic reactions have been noted , attributable in most cases to high dosage , combined toxicity ( with metronidazole or isoniazid ) , or to the unmasking of underlying psychoses in patients stressed by the withdrawal of alcohol .
OVERDOSAGE : No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with disulfiram .
It is recommended that the physician contact the local Poison Control Center .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Disulfiram should never be administered until the patient has abstained from alcohol for at least 12 hours .
Initial Dosage Schedule : In the first phase of treatment , a maximum of 500 mg daily is given in a single dose for one to two weeks .
Although usually taken in the morning , disulfiram may be taken on retiring by patients who experience a sedative effect .
Alternatively , to minimize , or eliminate , the sedative effect , dosage may be adjusted downward .
Maintenance Regimen : The average maintenance dose is 250 mg daily ( range , 125 to 500 mg ) , it should not exceed 500 mg daily .
Note : Occasionally patients , while seemingly on adequate maintenance doses of disulfiram , report that they are able to drink alcoholic beverages with impunity and without any symptomatology .
All appearances to the contrary , such patients must be presumed to be disposing of their tablets in some manner without actually taking them .
Until such patients have been observed reliably taking their daily disulfiram tablets ( preferably crushed and well mixed with liquid ) , it cannot be concluded that disulfiram is ineffective .
Duration of Therapy : The daily , uninterrupted administration of disulfiram must be continued until the patient is fully recovered socially and a basis for permanent self - control is established .
Depending on the individual patient , maintenance therapy may be required for months or even years .
Trial with Alcohol : During early experience with disulfiram , it was thought advisable for each patient to have at least one supervised alcohol - drug reaction .
More recently , the test reaction has been largely abandoned .
Furthermore , such a test reaction should never be administered to a patient over 50 years of age .
A clear , detailed and convincing description of the reaction is felt to be sufficient in most cases .
However , where a test reaction is deemed necessary , the suggested procedure is as follows : After the first one to two weeks ’ therapy with 500 mg daily , a drink of 15 mL ( 1 / 2 oz ) of 100 proof whiskey , or equivalent , is taken slowly .
This test dose of alcoholic beverage may be repeated once only , so that the total dose does not exceed 30 mL ( 1 oz ) of whiskey .
Once a reaction develops , no more alcohol should be consumed .
Such tests should be carried out only when the patient is hospitalized , or comparable supervision and facilities , including oxygen , are available .
Management of Disulfiram - Alcohol Reaction : In severe reactions , whether caused by an excessive test dose or by the patient ’ s unsupervised ingestion of alcohol , supportive measures to restore blood pressure and treat shock should be instituted .
Other recommendations include : oxygen , carbogen ( 95 % oxygen and 5 % carbon dioxide ) , vitamin C intravenously in massive doses ( 1 g ) and ephedrine sulfate .
Antihistamines have also been used intravenously .
Potassium levels should be monitored , particularly in patients on digitalis , since hypokalemia has been reported .
HOW SUPPLIED : Disulfiram Tablets USP : 250 mg - White , round , unscored tablets , Debossed : OP 706 Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 5034 - 2 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5034 - 1 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 5034 - 0 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Mfg . by PLIVA Krakow Pharmaceutical Company S . A . Krakow , Poland for Duramed Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals , L . L . C . Pomona , New York 10970 Iss .
2 / 2010 11001624 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Antabuse ( Disulfiram Tablets , USP ) 250 mg Label Text Antabuse ® ( Disulfiram Tablets , USP ) 250 mg See Side Panel for Warnings Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
