WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of : • Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older • Narcolepsy Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of : • Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( 1 ) • Narcolepsy ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pediatric patients 6 years and older : Starting dose is 5 mg twice daily ( before breakfast and lunch ) ; increase the dose 5 mg to 10 mg weekly ; daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended .
( 2 . 2 ) • Adults : Administer in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
Average dosage is 20 to 30 mg daily .
Maximum recommended daily dosage is 60 mg .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to initiating treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history including family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical examination ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 General Dosing Information Pediatric Patients 6 years of Age and Older The recommended starting dosage is 5 mg orally twice daily before breakfast and lunch ( preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals ) .
Increase the dosage gradually , in increments of 5 mg to 10 mg weekly .
Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended .
Adults Administer orally in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily , preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 60 mg .
The average dosage is 20 to 30 mg daily .
For adult patients who are unable to sleep if medication is taken late in the day , administer the last dose before 6 p . m . Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , and adjust the dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur , reduce dosage , or , if necessary , discontinue Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be periodically discontinued to assess the pediatric patient ' s condition .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , discontinue Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a clear , colorless to pale yellow , grape - scented liquid available in a 500 mL bottle in the following strengths : • 5 mg per 5 mL • 10 mg per 5 mL Oral solution : 5 mg per 5 mL and 10 mg per 5 mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients : • with known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• receiving concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI , because of the risk of hypertensive crises [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ( 4 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of painful or prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Boxed Warning , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses .
Sudden death has been reported in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious heart problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 bpm ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Illness CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed mood episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon Stimulants used to treat ADHD , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in children ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated children over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated children ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
The safety and effectiveness of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution have not been established in pediatric patient less than 6 years of age .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Abuse and Dependence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive crisis when used concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] • Serious cardiovascular reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood pressure and heart rate increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - term suppression of growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of methylphenidate containing products were identified in clinical studies , postmarketing reports , or literature .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and infestations : nasopharyngitis Blood and the lymphatic system disorders : leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , pancytopenia Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema and anaphylaxis , auricular swelling , bullous conditions , eruptions , exanthemas Metabolism and nutrition disorders : decreased appetite , reduced weight gain and suppression of growth during prolonged use in pediatric patients Psychiatric disorders : insomnia , anxiety , restlessness , agitation , psychosis ( sometimes with visual and tactile hallucinations ) , depressed mood , affect lability , mania , disorientation , libido changes Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness , tremor , dyskinesia including choreoatheetoid movements , drowsiness , convulsions , cerebral arteritis and / or occlusion , serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs , migraine Eye disorders : blurred vision , difficulties in visual accommodation , diplopia , mydriasis Cardiac disorders : tachycardia , palpitations , increased blood pressure , arrhythmias , angina pectoris , sudden cardiac death , myocardial infarction , bradycardia , extrasystole Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : cough , pharyngolaryngeal pain , dyspnea Gastrointestinal disorders : dry mouth , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , diarrhea General disorders : fatigue , hyperpyrexia Hepatobiliary disorders : abnormal liver function , ranging from transaminase elevation to severe hepatic injury Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : hyperhidrosis , pruritus , urticaria , exfoliative dermatitis , scalp hair loss , erythema multiforme rash , thrombocytopenic purpura angioneurotic edema , erythema , fixed drug eruption Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : arthralgia , muscle cramps , rhabdomyolysis , myalgia , muscle twitching Renal and urinary disorders : hematuria Reproductive system and breast disorders : gynecomastia Urogenital disorders : priapism Vascular disorders : peripheral coldness , Raynaud ' s phenomenon Investigations : weight loss Common adverse reactions : tachycardia , palpitations , headache , insomnia , anxiety , hyperhidrosis , weight loss , decreased appetite , dry mouth , nausea , and abdominal pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 367 - 3395 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Table 1 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral SolutionMonoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Intervention : Concomitant use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated .
Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact : Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed .
Risperidone Clinical Impact : Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Intervention : Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
Risk Summary Published studies and postmarketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants use during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
No effects on morphological development were observed in embryo - fetal development studies with oral administration of methylphenidate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 12 and 19 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / day given to adults on a mg / m2 basis .
However , spina bifida was observed in rabbits at a dose 65 times the MRHD given to adults .
A decrease in pup body weight was observed in a pre - and post - natal development study with oral administration of methylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses 7 times the MRHD given to adults ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions CNS stimulants , such as Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 75 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
Malformations ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) were observed in rabbits at the highest dose , which is approximately 65 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to adults on a mg / m2 basis .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rabbits was 60 mg / kg / day ( 19 times the MRHD given to adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of morphological development effects in rats , although increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations were seen at the highest dose level ( 12 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , which was also maternally toxic .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rats was 25 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
When methylphenidate was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 45 mg / kg / day , offspring body weight gain was decreased at the highest dose ( 7 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , but no other effects on postnatal development were observed .
The no effect level for pre - and postnatal development in rats was 15 mg / kg / day ( ~ 2 times the MRHD given to adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature , based on milk sampling from seven mothers reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , insomnia , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution for the treatment of ADHD have been established in pediatric patients six years of age and older .
The safety and effectiveness of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in pediatric patients under six years of age have not been established .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established .
Long - Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data In a study conducted in young rats , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal Day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal Week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal Weeks 13 - 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was seen in females exposed to the highest dose ( 8 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is less than the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution has not been studied in the geriatric population .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution contains methylphenidate hydrochloride , a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , to achieve a desired psychological or physiological effect .
Drug addiction is a cluster of behavioral , cognitive , and physiological phenomena that may include a strong desire to take the drug , difficulties in controlling drug use ( e . g . , continuing drug use despite harmful consequences , giving a higher priority to drug use than other activities and obligations ) , and possible tolerance or physical dependence .
Both abuse and misuse may lead to addiction , and some individuals may develop addiction even when taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution as prescribed .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , and suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Individuals who abuse CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which may result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution use .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical Dependence Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may produce physical dependence from continued therapy .
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; depression ; fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
Tolerance Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may produce tolerance from continued therapy .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ' s desired and / or undesired effects over time .
10 OVERDOSAGE Human Experience Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the central nervous system and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( which may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
Overdose Management Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for the latest recommendations on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring .
Treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug .
Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdosage .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
Use supportive and symptomatic measures .
11 DESCRIPTION Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution contains methylphenidate hydrochloride a CNS stimulant .
It is available as an oral solution in 5 mg / 5 mL and 10 mg / 5 mL strengths for oral administration .
Chemically , methylphenidate hydrochloride is d , l ( racemic ) methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate hydrochloride and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate Hydrochloride C14H19NO2 ∙ HCl MW = 269 . 77 Methylphenidate hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Each mL of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution 5 mg / 5 mL contains 1 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride USP .
Each mL of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution 10 mg / 5 mL contains 2 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride USP .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution also contains the following inactive ingredients : hydrochloric acid , polyethylene glycol 1450 , glycerin , N & A grape flavor FM - 4727 , purified water and if necessary , sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methylphenidate hydrochloride is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and l - threo enantiomers .
The d - threo enantiomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - threo enantiomer .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increases the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
Cardiac Electrophysiology A formal QT study has not been conducted in subjects taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
The effect of dexmethylphenidate , the pharmacologically active d - enantiomer of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , on the QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , placebo - and open - label active ( moxifloxacin ) - controlled study following single doses of 40 mg dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsule in 75 healthy volunteers .
Electrocardiograms were collected up to 12 hours postdose .
Frederica ' s method for heart rate correction was employed to derive the corrected QT interval ( QTcF ) .
The maximum mean prolongation of QTcF intervals was less than 5 ms , and the upper limit of the 90 % confidence interval was below 10 ms for all time - matched comparisons versus placebo .
This was below the threshold of clinical concern and there was no evident exposure response relationship .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single dose administration of 20 mg Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution and 20 mg tablet of methylphenidate hydrochloride in healthy volunteers under fasted conditions , time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) of methylphenidate was at 1 to 2 hours after dosing , and : • The mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of methylphenidate was 9 . 1 ng / mL and 9 . 8 ng / mL , respectively .
• The mean area under concentration curve ( AUC ) of methylphenidate was 46 . 7 hour * ng / mL and 50 . 0 hour * ng / mL , respectively .
Effect of Food Ingestion of a high - fat meal with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution increased methylphenidate mean Cmax and AUC by about 13 % and 25 % , respectively .
Time to Cmax ( Tmax ) was delayed by approximately 1 hour .
Distribution Plasma protein binding is 10 % to 33 % .
The volume of distribution was 2 . 65 ± 1 . 11 L / kg for d - methylphenidate and 1 . 80 ± 0 . 91 L / kg for l - methylphenidate .
Elimination The mean terminal half - life ( t ½ ) of methylphenidate was 2 . 7 hours following administration of 20 mg Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 40 ± 0 . 12 L / h / kg for d - methylphenidate and 0 . 73 ± 0 . 28 L / h / kg for l - methylphenidate .
Metabolism Methylphenidate is metabolized primarily by deesterification to alpha - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( ritalinic acid ) , which has little or no pharmacologic activity .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite was ritalinic acid , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Specific Populations Male and Female Patients , Racial Groups , and Age The effect of gender , race , and age on the pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution administration have not been studied .
Patients with Renal Impairment Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution has not been studied in patients with renal impairment .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal impairment is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
Since methylphenidate is metabolized primarily to ritalinic acid by nonmicrosomal hydrolytic esterases that are widely distributed throughout the body , hepatic impairment is expected to have minimal effect on the pharmacokinetics of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas , at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / kg given to adults on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 7 times the MRHD ( adults ) on a mg / m2 basis .
In a 24 - week carcinogenicity study in the transgenic mouse strain p53 + / - , which is sensitive to genotoxic carcinogens , there was no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Male and female mice were fed diets containing the same concentration of methylphenidate as in the lifetime carcinogenicity study ; the high - dose groups were exposed to 60 to 74 mg / kg / day of methylphenidate .
Mutagenesis Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay , in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , or in the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay using human lymphocytes .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Methylphenidate was negative in vivo in males and females in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility No human data on the effect of methylphenidate on fertility are available .
Methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week continuous breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 13 times the maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg / day given to adults on a mg / m2 basis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a clear , colorless to pale yellow , grape - scented liquid available in the following strengths : • 5 mg per 5 mL Bottles of 500 mL • NDC 51991 - 611 - 50 • 10 mg per 5 mL Bottles of 500 mL • NDC 51991 - 612 - 50 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light resistant container , as defined in the USP , with child - resistant closure .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / High Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a federally controlled substance , and it can be abused and lead to dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , and 9 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients that they should not give Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution to anyone else .
Advise patients to store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution by a medicine take - back program if available [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients that there is a potential serious cardiovascular risk including sudden death , myocardial infarction , and stroke with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Instruct patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution can elevate blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without prior history of psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct the patient to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes ( Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon ) Instruct patients about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may cause slowing of growth and weight loss in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Pregnancy Exposure Registry Inform patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in patients exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Berlin , CT 06037 Manufactured by : Nostrum Laboratories , Inc .
Bryan , OH 43506 9209T03 MEDICATION GUIDE Methylphenidate ( me - thəl - ' fe - nə - dāt ) Hydrochloride Oral Solution , CII This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
9209T03 Revised : 08 / 2021 What is the most important information I should know about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution can cause serious side effects , including : • Abuse and dependence .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , other methylphenidate containing medicines , and amphetamines have a high chance for abuse and can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Your healthcare provider should check you or your child for signs of abuse and dependence before and during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
• Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Heart - related problems , including : • sudden death , stroke , and heart attack in adults • sudden death in children who have heart problems or heart defects • increased blood pressure and heart rate Your healthcare provider should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or have a family history of these problems .
Your healthcare provider should check your or your child ' s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you or your child have any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
• Mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , or seeing or believing things that are not real ) or new manic symptoms Tell your healthcare provider about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , especially hearing voices , seeing or believing things that are not real , or new manic symptoms .
What is Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in people 6 years of age and older .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in people with ADHD .
It is not known if Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is safe and effective for use in children under 6 years of age .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains methylphenidate that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution to anyone else , because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution may harm others and is against the law .
Do not take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution if you or your child are : • allergic to methylphenidate hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
• taking , or have stopped taking within the past 14 days , a medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Before taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have heart problems , heart defects , or high blood pressure • have mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression , or have a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression • have circulation problems in fingers and toes • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution will harm the unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution passes into breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed the baby during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines that you take or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be changed during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Your healthcare provider will decide whether Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child take a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Know the medicines that you take or your child take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution be taken ?
• Take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose if needed .
• Children 6 years of age and older : • Take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution by mouth 2 times a day before breakfast and lunch , 30 to 45 minutes before a meal , as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Adults : • Take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution by mouth 2 or 3 times a day , 30 to 45 minutes before a meal , as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• For adults who have sleep problems when Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution is taken late in the day , take your last dose of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution before 6 p . m . • Your healthcare provider may sometimes stop Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• If you or your child take too much Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution , call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ? "
• Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) .
Priapism has happened in males who take products that contain methylphenidate .
If you or your child develop priapism , get medical help right away .
• Circulation problems in fingers and toes ( peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ) .
Signs and symptoms may include : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes , or if you or your child have any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children .
Children should have their height and weight checked often during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment may be stopped if your child is not growing or gaining weight .
The most common side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution include : • increased heart rate • headache • anxiety • weight loss • dry mouth • stomach pain • irregular heart beat ( palpitations ) • trouble sleeping • sweating • decreased appetite • nausea These are not all the possible side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ?
• Store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a safe place , like a locked cabinet .
• Protect from light and moisture .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution by a medication take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution in the household trash .
Keep Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution to other people , even if they have the same symptoms .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution ?
Active Ingredient : methylphenidate hydrochloride USP Inactive Ingredients : hydrochloric acid , polyethylene glycol 1450 , glycerin , N & A grape flavor FM - 4727 , purified water and if necessary , sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Distributed by : Breckenridge Pharmaceutical , Inc . , Berlin , CT 06037 Manufactured by : Nostrum Laboratories , Inc . , Bryan , OH 43506 For more information go to www . bpirx . com or call 1 - 800 - 367 - 3395 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg / 5 mL Bottle Label NDC 51991 - 611 - 50 CII Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution 5 mg / 5 mL FOR ORAL USE ONLY PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient breckenridge A Towa Company Rx Only 500 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg / 5 mL Bottle Label NDC 51991 - 612 - 50 CII Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Oral Solution 10 mg / 5 mL FOR ORAL USE ONLY PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient breckenridge A Towa Company Rx Only 500 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
