Programmed delivery in vivo of 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , or 0 . 3 mg clonidine USP per day , for one week .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Clonidine transdermal system USP provides continuous systemic delivery of clonidine USP for 7 days at an approximately constant rate .
Clonidine USP is a centrally acting alpha - agonist hypotensive agent .
It is an imidazoline derivative with the chemical name 2 , 6 - dichloro - N - 2 - imidazolidinylidenebenzenamine and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H9Cl2N3 M . W . 230 . 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] System Structure and Components Clonidine transdermal system USP is a multi - layered film , 0 . 2 mm thick , containing clonidine USP as the active agent .
The system areas are 4 . 33 cm2 ( clonidine USP 0 . 1 mg per day ) , 8 . 67 cm2 ( clonidine USP 0 . 2 mg per day ) and 13 cm2 ( clonidine USP 0 . 3 mg per day ) and the amount of drug released is directly proportional to the area ( see Release Rate Concept ) .
The composition per unit area is the same for all three doses .
The inactive ingredients are : aluminum , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer , light mineral oil , microporous polypropylene membrane , pigmented polyethylene polyester film , polyisobutylene and silicon coated polyester film .
Proceeding from the visible surface towards the surface attached to the skin , there are four consecutive layers : 1 ) a backing layer of polyester film ; 2 ) a drug reservoir ; 3 ) a microporous polypropylene membrane that controls the rate of delivery of clonidine USP from the system to the skin surface ; 4 ) an adhesive formulation .
Prior to use , a protective slit release liner of silicone coated polyester film that covers the adhesive layer is removed .
Cross Section of the System : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Release Rate Concept Clonidine transdermal system USP is programmed to release clonidine USP at an approximately constant rate for 7 days .
The energy for drug release is derived from the concentration gradient existing between a saturated solution of drug in the system and the much lower concentration prevailing in the skin .
Clonidine USP flows in the direction of the lower concentration at a constant rate , limited by the rate - controlling membrane , so long as a saturated solution is maintained in the drug reservoir .
Following system application to intact skin , clonidine USP in the adhesive layer saturates the skin site below the system .
Clonidine USP from the drug reservoir then begins to flow through the rate - controlling membrane and the adhesive layer of the system into the systemic circulation via the capillaries beneath the skin .
Therapeutic plasma clonidine USP levels are achieved 2 to 3 days after initial application of clonidine transdermal system USP .
The 4 . 33 , 8 . 67 and 13 cm2 systems deliver 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , and 0 . 3 mg of clonidine USP per day , respectively .
To ensure constant release of drug for 7 days , the total drug content of the system is higher than the total amount of drug delivered .
Application of a new system to a fresh skin site at weekly intervals continuously maintains therapeutic plasma concentrations of clonidine USP .
If the clonidine transdermal system USP is removed and not replaced with a new system , therapeutic plasma clonidine USP levels will persist for about 8 hours and then decline slowly over several days .
Over this time period , blood pressure returns gradually to pretreatment levels .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact ; therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
Acute studies with clonidine hydrochloride in humans have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % to 20 % ) of cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance ; at a 45 ° tilt there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long - term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic responses to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a reevaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates the release of growth hormone in children as well as adults but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
Pharmacokinetics Clonidine transdermal system delivers clonidine at an approximately constant rate for 7 days .
The absolute bioavailability of clonidine from the clonidine transdermal system dosage form is approximately 60 % .
Steady - state clonidine plasma levels are obtained within 3 days after transdermal application to the upper outer arm and increase linearly with increasing size of the transdermal patch .
Mean steady - state plasma concentrations with the 4 . 33 cm2 , 8 . 67 cm2 and 13 cm2 systems are approximately 0 . 4 ng / mL , 0 . 8 ng / mL , and 1 . 1 ng / mL , respectively .
Similar clonidine steady - state concentrations are reached after application to the chest .
Steady - state clonidine plasma levels remain constant after removal of one system and application of a new system of the same size .
Following intravenous administration , clonidine displays biphasic disposition with a distribution half - life of about 20 minutes and an elimination half - life ranging from 12 to 16 hours .
The half - life increases up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Clonidine has a total clearance of 177 mL / min and a renal clearance of 102 mL / min .
The apparent volume of distribution ( Vz ) of clonidine is 197 L ( 2 . 9 L / kg ) .
Clonidine crosses the placental barrier .
It has been shown to cross the blood brain barrier in rats .
Following oral administration , about 40 % to 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug within 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
After removal of the clonidine transdermal system , clonidine plasma concentrations decline slowly with a half - life of approximately 20 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine transdermal system is indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
It may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine transdermal system should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine or to any other component of the therapeutic system .
WARNINGS Withdrawal Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , tremor , and confusion accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with clonidine transdermal system , the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine transdermal system therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine transdermal system .
PRECAUTIONS General In patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to clonidine transdermal system , continuation of clonidine transdermal system or substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride therapy may be associated with development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction to clonidine transdermal system , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
The sympatholytic action of clonidine may worsen sinus node dysfunction and atrioventricular ( AV ) block , especially in patients taking other sympatholytic drugs .
There are postmarketing reports of patients with conduction abnormalities and / or taking other sympatholytic drugs who developed severe bradycardia requiring IV atropine , IV isoproterenol and temporary cardiac pacing while taking clonidine .
In hypertension caused by pheochromocytoma , no therapeutic effect of clonidine transdermal system can be expected .
In rare instances , loss of blood pressure control has been reported in patients using clonidine transdermal system according to the instructions for use .
Perioperative Use Clonidine transdermal system therapy should not be interrupted during the surgical period .
Blood pressure should be carefully monitored during surgery and additional measures to control blood pressure should be available if required .
Physicians considering starting clonidine transdermal system therapy during the perioperative period must be aware that therapeutic plasma clonidine levels are not achieved until 2 to 3 days after initial application of clonidine transdermal system ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Defibrillation or Cardioversion The transdermal clonidine systems should be removed before attempting defibrillation or cardioversion because of the potential for altered electrical conductivity , which may increase the risk of arcing , a phenomenon associated with the use of defibrillators .
MRI Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during a magnetic resonance imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because the clonidine transdermal system patch contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
Information for Patients Patients should be cautioned against interruption of clonidine transdermal system therapy without their physician ' s advice .
Since patients may experience a possible sedative effect , dizziness , or accommodation disorder with use of clonidine , caution patients about engaging in activities such as driving a vehicle or operating appliances or machinery .
Also , inform patients that this sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
Patients who wear contact lenses should be cautioned that treatment with clonidine transdermal system may cause dryness of eyes .
Patients should be instructed to consult their physicians promptly about the possible need to remove the patch if they observe moderate to severe localized erythema and / or vesicle formation at the site of application or generalized skin rash .
If a patient experiences isolated , mild localized skin irritation before completing 7 days of use , the system may be removed and replaced with a new system applied to a fresh skin site .
If the system should begin to loosen from the skin after application , the patient should be instructed to place the adhesive cover directly over the system to ensure adhesion during its 7 day use .
Used clonidine transdermal system patches contain a substantial amount of their initial drug content which may be harmful to infants and children if accidentally applied or ingested .
THEREFORE , PATIENTS SHOULD BE CAUTIONED TO KEEP BOTH USED AND UNUSED CLONIDINE TRANSDERMAL SYSTEM PATCHES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
After use , clonidine transdermal system should be folded in half with the adhesive sides together and discarded away from children ' s reach .
Instructions for use , storage and disposal of the system are provided at the end of this brochure .
These instructions are also included in each box of clonidine transdermal system .
Drug Interactions Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
If a patient receiving clonidine is also taking tricyclic antidepressants , the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced , necessitating an increase in the clonidine dose .
If a patient receiving clonidine is also taking neuroleptics , orthostatic regulation disturbances ( e . g . , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , fatigue ) may be induced or exacerbated .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction , e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , and beta - blockers .
Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concomitantly with diltiazem or verapamil .
Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats ( see Toxicology ) .
Toxicology In several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride , a dose - dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer .
Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid .
In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats , eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before , and periodically after , the start of clonidine therapy .
In 353 of these 908 patients , the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer .
Except for some dryness of the eyes , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and , according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle , retinal function was unchanged .
In combination with amitriptyline , clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic dietary administration of clonidine was not carcinogenic to rats ( 132 weeks ) or mice ( 78 weeks ) dosed , respectively , at up to 46 to 70 times the maximum recommended daily human dose as mg / kg ( 9 or 6 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Fertility of male and female rats was unaffected by clonidine doses as high as 150 mcg / kg ( approximately 3 times the MRDHD ) .
In a separate experiment , fertility of female rats appeared to be affected at dose levels of 500 to 2000 mcg / kg ( 10 to 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 2 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRDHD ) of clonidine hydrochloride produced no evidence of a teratogenic or embryotoxic potential in rabbits .
In rats , however , doses as low as 1 / 3 the oral MRDHD ( 1 / 15 the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) of clonidine were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the oral MRDHD ) when the dams were treated on gestation days 6 to 15 .
Increases in resorption were observed at much higher dose levels ( 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 4 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in mice and rats treated on gestation days 1 to 14 ( lowest dose employed in the study was 500 mcg / kg ) .
No adequate well - controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Clonidine crosses the placental barrier ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers As clonidine is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clonidine transdermal system is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established in adequate and well - controlled trials .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trial Experience With Clonidine Transdermal System Most systemic adverse effects during clonidine transdermal system therapy have been mild and have tended to diminish with continued therapy .
In a 3 month multi - clinic trial of clonidine transdermal system in 101 hypertensive patients , the systemic adverse reactions were : dry mouth ( 25 patients ) and drowsiness ( 12 ) , fatigue ( 6 ) , headache ( 5 ) , lethargy and sedation ( 3 each ) , insomnia , dizziness , impotence / sexual dysfunction , dry throat ( 2 each ) and constipation , nausea , change in taste and nervousness ( 1 each ) .
In the above mentioned 3 month controlled clinical trial , as well as other uncontrolled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions were dermatological and are described below .
In the 3 month trial , 51 of the 101 patients had localized skin reactions such as erythema ( 26 patients ) and / or pruritus , particularly after using an adhesive cover throughout the 7 day dosage interval .
Allergic contact sensitization to clonidine transdermal system was observed in 5 patients .
Other skin reactions were localized vesiculation ( 7 patients ) , hyperpigmentation ( 5 ) , edema ( 3 ) , excoriation ( 3 ) , burning ( 3 ) , papules ( 1 ) , throbbing ( 1 ) , blanching ( 1 ) , and a generalized macular rash ( 1 ) .
In additional clinical experience , contact dermatitis resulting in treatment discontinuation was observed in 128 of 673 patients ( about 19 in 100 ) after a mean duration of treatment of 37 weeks .
The incidence of contact dermatitis was about 34 in 100 among white women , about 18 in 100 in white men , about 14 in 100 in black women , and approximately 8 in 100 in black men .
Analysis of skin reaction data showed that the risk of having to discontinue clonidine transdermal system treatment because of contact dermatitis was greatest between treatment weeks 6 and 26 , although sensitivity may develop either earlier or later in treatment .
In a large - scale clinical acceptability and safety study by 451 physicians in a total of 3539 patients , other allergic reactions were recorded for which a causal relationship to clonidine transdermal system was not established : maculopapular rash ( 10 cases ) ; urticaria ( 2 cases ) ; and angioedema of the face ( 2 cases ) , which also affected the tongue in one of the patients .
Marketing Experience With Clonidine Transdermal System The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of clonidine transdermal system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Decisions to include these reactions in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors : ( 1 ) seriousness of the reaction , ( 2 ) frequency of reporting , or ( 3 ) strength of causal connection to clonidine transdermal system .
Body as a Whole : Fever ; malaise ; weakness ; pallor ; and withdrawal syndrome .
Cardiovascular : Congestive heart failure ; cerebrovascular accident ; electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , bradycardia , sick sinus syndrome disturbances and arrhythmias ) ; chest pain ; orthostatic symptoms ; syncope ; increases in blood pressure ; sinus bradycardia and AV block with and without the use of concomitant digitalis ; Raynaud ' s phenomenon ; tachycardia ; bradycardia ; and palpitations .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System / Psychiatric : Delirium ; mental depression ; hallucinations ( including visual and auditory ) ; localized numbness ; vivid dreams or nightmares ; restlessness ; anxiety ; agitation ; irritability ; other behavioral changes ; and drowsiness .
Dermatological : Angioneurotic edema ; localized or generalized rash ; hives ; urticaria ; contact dermatitis ; pruritus ; alopecia ; and localized hypo or hyper pigmentation .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia and vomiting .
Genitourinary : Difficult micturition ; loss of libido ; and decreased sexual activity .
Metabolic : Gynecomastia or breast enlargement and weight gain .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle or joint pain ; and leg cramps .
Ophthalmological : Blurred vision ; burning of the eyes and dryness of the eyes .
Adverse Events Associated With Oral Clonidine Therapy Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which appear to be dose - related ) are dry mouth , occurring in about 40 of 100 patients ; drowsiness , about 33 in 100 ; dizziness , about 16 in 100 ; constipation and sedation , each about 10 in 100 .
The following less frequent adverse experiences have also been reported in patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride USP tablets , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established .
Body as a Whole : Fatigue ; fever ; headache ; pallor ; weakness ; and withdrawal syndrome .
Also reported were a weakly positive Coombs ' test and increased sensitivity to alcohol .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia ; congestive heart failure ; electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , sinus node arrest ; junctional bradycardia ; high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) ; orthostatic symptoms ; palpitations ; Raynaud ' s phenomenon ; syncope ; and tachycardia .
Cases of sinus bradycardia and AV block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System : Agitation ; anxiety ; delirium ; delusional perception ; hallucinations ( including visual and auditory ) ; insomnia ; mental depression ; nervousness ; other behavioral changes ; paresthesia ; restlessness ; sleep disorder ; and vivid dreams or nightmares .
Dermatological : Alopecia ; angioneurotic edema ; hives ; pruritus ; rash ; and urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain ; anorexia ; constipation ; hepatitis ; malaise ; mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests ; nausea ; parotitis ; pseudo - obstruction ( including colonic pseudo - obstruction ) ; salivary gland pain ; and vomiting .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity ; difficulty in micturition ; erectile dysfunction ; loss of libido ; nocturia ; and urinary retention .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Gynecomastia ; transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase ; and weight gain .
Musculoskeletal : Leg cramps and muscle or joint pain .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa .
Ophthalmological : Accommodation disorder ; blurred vision ; burning of the eyes ; decreased lacrimation ; and dryness of the eyes .
OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
If symptoms of poisoning occur following dermal exposure , remove all clonidine transdermal systems .
After their removal , the plasma clonidine levels will persist for about 8 hours , then decline slowly over a period of several days .
Rare cases of clonidine transdermal system poisoning due to accidental or deliberate mouthing or ingestion of the patch have been reported , many of them involving children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Ipecac syrup - induced vomiting and gastric lavage would not be expected to remove significant amounts of clonidine following dermal exposure .
If the patch is ingested , whole bowel irrigation may be considered and the administration of activated charcoal and / or cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date involved a 28 - year - old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semicoma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / mL after 1 hour , 190 ng / mL after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / mL after 2 hours , and 120 ng / mL after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply clonidine transdermal system once every 7 days to a hairless area of intact skin on the upper outer arm or chest .
Each new application of clonidine transdermal system should be on a different skin site from the previous location .
If the system loosens during 7 day wearing , the adhesive cover should be applied directly over the system to ensure good adhesion .
There have been rare reports of the need for patch changes prior to 7 days to maintain blood pressure control .
To initiate therapy , clonidine transdermal system dosage should be titrated according to individual therapeutic requirements , starting with clonidine transdermal system 0 . 1 mg .
If after one or two weeks the desired reduction in blood pressure is not achieved , increase the dosage by adding another clonidine transdermal system 0 . 1 mg or changing to a larger system .
An increase in dosage above two clonidine transdermal system 0 . 3 mg is usually not associated with additional efficacy .
When substituting clonidine transdermal system for oral clonidine or for other antihypertensive drugs , physicians should be aware that the antihypertensive effect of clonidine transdermal system may not commence until 2 to 3 days after initial application .
Therefore , gradual reduction of prior drug dosage is advised .
Some or all previous antihypertensive treatment may have to be continued , particularly in patients with more severe forms of hypertension .
Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Patients should be carefully monitored .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED Clonidine transdermal system USP 0 . 1 mg / day , 0 . 2 mg / day or 0 . 3 mg / day are available as 4 pouched systems and 4 adhesive covers per carton .
Each system is a round corner , rectangular flexible transdermal system with a tan matte backing and clear membrane .
* Programmed Delivery - Clonidine in vivo Per Day Over 1 Week Debossed Total Clonidine Content Size NDC ( for 4 systems ) Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg / day 0 . 1 mg 453 Clonidine 0 . 1 mg / day 3 . 09 mg 4 . 33 cm2 NDC 51862 - 453 - 04 Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 2 mg / day 0 . 2 mg 454 Clonidine 0 . 2 mg / day 6 . 19 mg 8 . 67 cm2 NDC 51862 - 454 - 04 Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg / day 0 . 3 mg 455 Clonidine 0 . 3 mg / day 9 . 28 mg 13 cm2 NDC 51862 - 455 - 04 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Manufactured By : Corium , Inc .
Grand Rapids , MI 49512 Rev . 04 / 2020 PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS CLONIDINE Transdermal System USP Rx only ( Read the following instructions carefully before using this medication .
If you have any questions , please consult with your doctor . )
General Information Clonidine transdermal system is a round corner , rectangular flexible transdermal system with a tan matte backing and clear membrane , containing an active blood - pressure - lowering medication .
It is designed to deliver the drug into the body through the skin smoothly and consistently for one full week .
Normal exposure to water , as in showering , bathing , and swimming , should not affect the PATCH .
The optional ivory , round ADHESIVE COVER should be applied directly over the PATCH , should the PATCH begin to separate from the skin .
The ivory , round ADHESIVE COVER ensures that the PATCH sticks to the skin .
The clonidine transdermal system PATCH must be replaced with a new one on a fresh skin site if the one in use significantly loosens or falls off .
Figure 1 : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during a magnetic resonance imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because the clonidine transdermal system contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
How to Apply the Clonidine Transdermal System • 1 ) Apply the tan , rectangular clonidine transdermal system PATCH once a week , preferably at a convenient time on the same day of the week ( i . e . , prior to bedtime on Tuesday of week one ; prior to bedtime on Tuesday of week two , etc . ) .
Each carton contains two types of pouches : Figure 2 : Contains PATCH with medication Contains ADHESIVE COVER for use if the PATCH becomes loose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 ) Select a hairless area such as on the upper , outer arm or upper chest .
The area chosen should be free of cuts , abrasions , irritation , scars or calluses and should not be shaved before applying the clonidine transdermal system PATCH .
Do not place the clonidine transdermal system PATCH on skin folds or under tight undergarments , since premature loosening may occur .
• 3 ) Wash hands with soap and water and thoroughly dry them .
• 4 ) Clean the area chosen with soap and water .
Rinse and wipe dry with a clean , dry tissue .
• 5 ) Select the pouch labeled " Clonidine Transdermal System USP " and open it as illustrated in Figure 3 .
Remove the tan , rectangular PATCH from the pouch .
Figure 3 : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 ) Remove the clear adhesive protective backing from the PATCH by gently peeling off one half of the backing at a time as shown in Figure 4 .
Avoid touching the sticky side of the clonidine transdermal system PATCH .
Figure 4 : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 ) Place the clonidine transdermal system PATCH on the prepared skin site ( sticky side down ) by applying firm pressure over the PATCH to ensure good contact with the skin , especially around the edges ( Figure 5 ) .
Discard the clear adhesive protective backing and wash your hands with soap and water to remove any drug from your hands .
Figure 5 : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 8 ) After one week , remove the old PATCH and discard it ( refer to Instructions for Disposal ) .
After choosing a different skin site , repeat instructions 2 through 7 for the application of your next clonidine transdermal system PATCH .
What to do if your Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH becomes loose while wearing : How to Apply the ADHESIVE COVER Note : The ivory , round , ADHESIVE COVER does not contain any drug and should not be used alone .
The COVER should be applied directly over the clonidine transdermal system PATCH only if the PATCH begins to separate from the skin , thereby ensuring that it sticks to the skin for seven full days .
Figure 6 : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 ) Wash hands with soap and water and thoroughly dry them .
• 2 ) Using a clean , dry tissue , make sure that the area around the tan , rectangular clonidine transdermal system PATCH is clean and dry .
Press gently on the clonidine transdermal system PATCH to ensure that the edges are in good contact with the skin .
• 3 ) Take the ivory , round , ADHESIVE COVER ( Figure 6 ) from the pouch and remove the paper liner backing from the COVER .
• 4 ) Carefully center the ivory , round , ADHESIVE COVER over the tan , rectangular clonidine transdermal system PATCH , and apply firm pressure , especially around the edges in contact with the skin .
Instructions for Disposal KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
During or even after use , a PATCH contains active medication which may be harmful to infants and children if accidentally applied or ingested .
After use , fold in half with the sticky sides together .
Dispose of carefully out of reach of children .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Mayne Pharma Greenville , NC 27834 Manufactured by : Corium , Inc .
Grand Rapids , MI 49512 Rev . 04 / 2020 CAW1017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 1 mg Patch Pouch Carton NDC 51862 - 453 - 04 Clonidine Transdermal System USP 0 . 1 mg / day Programmed in vivo delivery of 0 . 1 mg per day for one week .
To avoid possible burns , remove the clonidine transdermal system patch before undergoing an MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) procedure .
Rx Only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 2 mg Patch Pouch Carton NDC 51862 - 454 - 04 Clonidine Transdermal System USP 0 . 2 mg / day Programmed in vivo delivery of 0 . 2 mg per day for one week .
To avoid possible burns , remove the clonidine transdermal system patch before undergoing an MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) procedure .
Rx Only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 3 mg Patch Pouch Carton NDC 51862 - 455 - 04 Clonidine Transdermal System USP 0 . 3 mg / day Programmed in vivo delivery of 0 . 3 mg per day for one week .
To avoid possible burns , remove the clonidine transdermal system patch before undergoing an MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) procedure .
Rx Only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers mayne pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
