1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE YONSA is indicated in combination with methylprednisolone for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer .
YONSA is a CYP17 inhibitor indicated in combination with methylprednisolone for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer ( CRPC ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To avoid medication errors and overdose , be aware that YONSA tablets may have different dosing and food effects than other abiraterone acetate products .
Recommended dose : YONSA 500 mg ( four 125 mg tablets ) administered orally once daily in combination with methylprednisolone 4 mg administered orally twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) Patients receiving YONSA should also receive a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or should have had bilateral orchiectomy .
( 2 . 2 ) YONSA tablets must be taken as a single dose once daily with or without food .
The tablets should be swallowed whole with water .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
( 2 . 1 ) Dose Modification : • For patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , reduce the YONSA starting dose to 125 mg once daily .
( 2 . 3 ) • For patients who develop hepatotoxicity during treatment , hold YONSA until recovery .
Retreatment may be initiated at a reduced dose .
YONSA should be discontinued if patients develop severe hepatotoxicity .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of YONSA is 500 mg ( four 125 mg tablets ) administered orally once daily in combination with methylprednisolone 4 mg administered orally twice daily .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions To avoid medication errors and overdose , be aware that YONSA ( abiraterone acetate ) tablets may have different dosing and food effects than other abiraterone acetate products .
Patients receiving YONSA should also receive a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or should have had bilateral orchiectomy .
YONSA tablets must be taken as a single dose once daily with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The tablets should be swallowed whole with water .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
2 . 3 Dose Modification Guidelines in Hepatic Impairment and Hepatotoxicity Hepatic Impairment In patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , reduce the recommended dose of YONSA to 125 mg once daily .
In patients with moderate hepatic impairment monitor ALT , AST , and bilirubin prior to the start of treatment , every week for the first month , every two weeks for the following two months of treatment and monthly thereafter .
If elevations in ALT and / or AST greater than 5 X upper limit of normal ( ULN ) or total bilirubin greater than 3 X ULN occur in patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment , discontinue YONSA and do not re - treat patients with abiraterone acetate [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Do not use YONSA in patients with baseline severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Hepatotoxicity For patients who develop hepatotoxicity during treatment with YONSA ( ALT and / or AST greater than 5 X ULN or total bilirubin greater than 3 X ULN ) , interrupt treatment with YONSA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Treatment may be restarted at a reduced dose of 375 mg once daily following return of liver function tests to the patient ’ s baseline or to AST and ALT less than or equal to 2 . 5 X ULN and total bilirubin less than or equal to 1 . 5 X ULN .
For patients who resume treatment , monitor serum transaminases and bilirubin at a minimum of every two weeks for three months and monthly thereafter .
If hepatotoxicity recurs at the dose of 375 mg once daily , re - treatment may be restarted at a reduced dose of 250 mg once daily following return of liver function tests to the patient ’ s baseline or to AST and ALT less than or equal to 2 . 5 X ULN and total bilirubin less than or equal to 1 . 5 X ULN .
If hepatotoxicity recurs at the reduced dose of 250 mg once daily , discontinue treatment with YONSA .
Permanently discontinue YONSA for patients who develop a concurrent elevation of ALT greater than 3 x ULN and total bilirubin greater than 2 x ULN in the absence of biliary obstruction or other causes responsible for the concurrent elevation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dose Modification Guidelines for Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentine , phenobarbital ) during YONSA treatment .
If a strong CYP3A4 inducer must be co - administered , increase the YONSA dosing frequency to twice a day only during the co - administration period ( e . g . , from 500 mg once daily to 500 mg twice a day ) .
Reduce the dose back to the previous dose and frequency , if the concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS YONSA ( abiraterone acetate ) tablets , 125 mg , are white to off - white , oval - shaped tablets debossed with “ 125 FP ” on one side .
Tablets : 125 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Mineralocorticoid excess : Closely monitor patients with cardiovascular disease .
Control hypertension and correct hypokalemia before treatment .
Monitor blood pressure , serum potassium and symptoms of fluid retention at least monthly .
( 5 . 1 ) • Adrenocortical insufficiency : Monitor for symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency .
Increased dosage of corticosteroids may be indicated before , during and after stressful situations .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Can be severe and fatal .
Monitor liver function and modify , interrupt , or discontinue YONSA dosing as recommended .
( 5 . 3 ) • Increased fractures and mortality in combination with radium Ra 223 dichloride : Use of YONSA plus methylprednisolone in combination with radium Ra 223 dichloride is not recommended .
( 5 . 4 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : YONSA can cause fetal harm .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Hypoglycemia : Severe hypoglycemia has been reported in patients with pre - existing diabetes who are taking medication containing thiazolidinediones ( including pioglitazone ) or repaglinide .
Monitor blood glucose in patients with diabetes and assess if antidiabetic agent dose modifications are required .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hypokalemia , Fluid Retention , and Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions due to Mineralocorticoid Excess YONSA may cause hypertension , hypokalemia , and fluid retention as a consequence of increased mineralocorticoid levels resulting from CYP17 inhibition [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for hypertension , hypokalemia , and fluid retention at least once a month .
Control hypertension and correct hypokalemia before and during treatment with YONSA .
In the two randomized clinical trials , grade 3 to 4 hypertension occurred in 2 % of patients , grade 3 to 4 hypokalemia in 4 % of patients , and grade 3 to 4 edema in 1 % of patients treated with abiraterone acetate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Closely monitor patients whose underlying medical conditions might be compromised by increases in blood pressure , hypokalemia or fluid retention , such as those with heart failure , recent myocardial infarction , cardiovascular disease , or ventricular arrhythmia .
In postmarketing experience , QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes have been observed in patients who develop hypokalemia while taking abiraterone acetate .
The safety of YONSA in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction < 50 % or New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) Class III or IV heart failure ( in Study 1 ) or NYHA Class II to IV heart failure ( in Study 2 ) has not been established because these patients were excluded from these randomized clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
5 . 2 Adrenocortical Insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency occurred in the two randomized clinical studies in 0 . 5 % of patients taking abiraterone acetate and in 0 . 2 % of patients taking placebo .
Adrenocortical insufficiency was reported in patients receiving abiraterone acetate in combination with a corticosteroid , following interruption of daily steroids and / or with concurrent infection or stress .
Monitor patients for symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency , particularly if patients are withdrawn from corticosteroids , have corticosteroid dose reductions , or experience unusual stress .
Symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency may be masked by adverse reactions associated with mineralocorticoid excess seen in patients treated with YONSA .
If clinically indicated , perform appropriate tests to confirm the diagnosis of adrenocortical insufficiency .
Increased dosage of corticosteroids may be indicated before , during and after stressful situations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity In postmarketing experience , there have been abiraterone acetate - associated severe hepatic toxicity , including fulminant hepatitis , acute liver failure and deaths [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
In the two randomized clinical trials , grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST increases ( at least 5 X ULN ) were reported in 4 % of patients who received abiraterone acetate , typically during the first 3 months after starting treatment .
Patients whose baseline ALT or AST were elevated were more likely to experience liver test elevation than those beginning with normal values .
Treatment discontinuation due to ALT and AST increases occurred in 1 % of patients taking abiraterone acetate .
In these clinical trials , no deaths clearly related to abiraterone acetate were reported due to hepatotoxicity events .
Measure serum transaminases ( ALT and AST ) and bilirubin levels prior to starting treatment with YONSA , every two weeks for the first three months of treatment and monthly thereafter .
In patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment receiving a reduced YONSA dose of 125 mg , measure ALT , AST , and bilirubin prior to the start of treatment , every week for the first month , every two weeks for the following two months of treatment and monthly thereafter .
Promptly measure serum total bilirubin , AST , and ALT if clinical symptoms or signs suggestive of hepatotoxicity develop .
Elevations of AST , ALT , or bilirubin from the patient ' s baseline should prompt more frequent monitoring .
If at any time AST or ALT rise above five times the ULN , or the bilirubin rises above three times the ULN , interrupt YONSA treatment and closely monitor liver function .
Re - treatment with YONSA at a reduced dose level may take place only after return of liver function tests to the patient ’ s baseline or to AST and ALT less than or equal to 2 . 5 X ULN and total bilirubin less than or equal to 1 . 5 X ULN [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue treatment with YONSA for patients who develop a concurrent elevation of ALT greater than 3 x ULN and total bilirubin greater than 2 x ULN in the absence of biliary obstruction or other causes responsible for the concurrent elevation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
The safety of YONSA re - treatment of patients who develop AST or ALT greater than or equal to 20 X ULN and / or bilirubin greater than or equal to 10 X ULN is unknown .
5 . 4 Increased Fractures and Mortality in Combination with Radium Ra 223 Dichloride YONSA plus methylprednisolone is not recommended for use in combination with radium Ra 223 dichloride outside of clinical trials .
The clinical efficacy and safety of concurrent initiation of abiraterone acetate plus a corticosteroid and radium Ra 223 dichloride was assessed in a randomized , placebo - controlled multicenter study in 806 patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic castration - resistant prostate cancer with bone metastases .
The study was unblinded early based on an Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommendation .
At the primary analysis , increased incidences of fractures ( 28 . 6 % vs 11 . 4 % ) and deaths ( 38 . 5 % vs 35 . 5 % ) have been observed in patients who received abiraterone acetate plus a corticosteroid in combination with radium Ra 223 dichloride compared to patients who received placebo in combination with abiraterone acetate plus a corticosteroid .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity The safety and efficacy of YONSA have not been established in females .
Based on animal reproductive studies and mechanism of action , YONSA can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered to a pregnant female .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of abiraterone acetate to pregnant rats during organogenesis caused adverse developmental effects at maternal exposures approximately ≥ 0 . 03 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the recommended dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with YONSA and for 3 weeks after the last dose of YONSA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
YONSA should not be handled by females who are or may become pregnant [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypoglycemia Severe hypoglycemia has been reported when abiraterone acetate was administered to patients with pre - existing diabetes receiving medications containing thiazolidinediones ( including pioglitazone ) or repaglinide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor blood glucose in patients with diabetes during and after discontinuation of treatment with YONSA .
Assess if antidiabetic drug dosage needs to be adjusted to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hypokalemia , Fluid Retention , and Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions due to Mineralocorticoid Excess [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Adrenocortical Insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Increased Fractures and Mortality in Combination with Radium Ra 223 Dichloride [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are fatigue , joint swelling or discomfort , edema , hot flush , diarrhea , vomiting , cough , hypertension , dyspnea , urinary tract infection and contusion .
( 6 . 1 ) The most common laboratory abnormalities ( > 20 % ) are anemia , elevated alkaline phosphatase , hypertriglyceridemia , lymphopenia , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , elevated AST , hypophosphatemia , elevated ALT and hypokalemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . FDA . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Two randomized placebo - controlled , multicenter clinical trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) enrolled patients who had metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer who were using a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist or were previously treated with orchiectomy .
In both Study 1 and Study 2 abiraterone acetate was administered at a dose equivalent to 500 mg of YONSA daily in combination with a different corticosteroid twice daily in the active treatment arms .
Placebo plus corticosteroid was given to control patients .
The most common adverse drug reactions ( > 10 % ) reported in the two randomized clinical trials that occurred more commonly ( > 2 % ) in the abiraterone acetate arm were fatigue , joint swelling or discomfort , edema , hot flush , diarrhea , vomiting , cough , hypertension , dyspnea , urinary tract infection and contusion .
The most common laboratory abnormalities ( > 20 % ) reported in the two randomized clinical trials that occurred more commonly ( ≥ 2 % ) in the abiraterone acetate arm were anemia , elevated alkaline phosphatase , hypertriglyceridemia , lymphopenia , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , elevated AST , hypophosphatemia , elevated ALT and hypokalemia .
Study 1 : Metastatic CRPC Following Chemotherapy Study 1 enrolled 1195 patients with metastatic CRPC who had received prior docetaxel chemotherapy .
Patients were not eligible if AST and / or ALT ≥ 2 . 5 X ULN in the absence of liver metastases .
Patients with liver metastases were excluded if AST and / or ALT > 5 X ULN .
Table 1 shows adverse reactions on the abiraterone acetate arm in Study 1 that occurred with a ≥ 2 % absolute increase in frequency compared to placebo or were events of special interest .
The median duration of treatment with abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid was 8 months .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions due to Abiraterone Acetate in Study 1 Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 791 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 394 ) System Organ Class Adverse Reaction All Grades1 % Grade 3 - 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Joint swelling / discomfort2 30 4 . 2 23 4 . 1 Muscle discomfort3 26 3 . 0 23 2 . 3 General Disorders Edema4 27 1 . 9 18 0 . 8 Vascular Disorders Hot Flush 19 0 . 3 17 0 . 3 Hypertension 8 . 5 1 . 3 6 . 9 0 . 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 18 0 . 6 14 1 . 3 Dyspepsia 6 . 1 0 3 . 3 0 Infections and infestations Urinary tract infection 12 2 . 1 7 . 1 0 . 5 Upper respiratory tract infection 5 . 4 0 2 . 5 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 11 0 7 . 6 0 Renal and urinary disorders Urinary frequency 7 . 2 0 . 3 5 . 1 0 . 3 Nocturia 6 . 2 0 4 . 1 0 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Fractures5 5 . 9 1 . 4 2 . 3 0 Cardiac disorders Arrhythmia6 7 . 2 1 . 1 4 . 6 1 . 0 Chest pain or chest discomfort7 3 . 8 0 . 5 2 . 8 0 Cardiac failure8 2 . 3 1 . 9 1 . 0 0 . 3 1 Adverse events graded according to CTCAE version 3 . 0 2 Includes terms Arthritis , Arthralgia , Joint swelling , and Joint stiffness 3 Includes terms Muscle spasms , Musculoskeletal pain , Myalgia , Musculoskeletal discomfort , and Musculoskeletal stiffness 4 Includes terms Edema , Edema peripheral , Pitting edema , and Generalized edema 5 Includes all fractures with the exception of pathological fracture 6 Includes terms Arrhythmia , Tachycardia , Atrial fibrillation , Supraventricular tachycardia , Atrial tachycardia , Ventricular tachycardia , Atrial flutter , Bradycardia , Atrioventricular block complete , Conduction disorder , and Bradyarrhythmia 7 Includes terms Angina pectoris , Chest pain , and Angina unstable .
Myocardial infarction or ischemia occurred more commonly in the placebo arm than in the abiraterone acetate arm ( 1 . 3 % vs . 1 . 1 % respectively ) .
8 Includes terms Cardiac failure , Cardiac failure congestive , Left ventricular dysfunction , Cardiogenic shock , Cardiomegaly , Cardiomyopathy , and Ejection fraction decreased Table 2 shows laboratory abnormalities of interest from Study 1 .
Grade 3 - 4 low serum phosphorus ( 7 % ) and low potassium ( 5 % ) occurred at a greater than or equal to 5 % rate in the abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid arm .
Table 2 : Laboratory Abnormalities of Interest in Study 1 Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 791 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 394 ) Laboratory Abnormality All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % Hypertriglyceridemia 63 0 . 4 53 0 High AST 31 2 . 1 36 1 . 5 Hypokalemia 28 5 . 3 20 1 . 0 Hypophosphatemia 24 7 . 2 16 5 . 8 High ALT 11 1 . 4 10 0 . 8 High Total Bilirubin 6 . 6 0 . 1 4 . 6 0 Study 2 : Metastatic CRPC Prior to Chemotherapy Study 2 enrolled 1088 patients with metastatic CRPC who had not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy .
Patients were ineligible if AST and / or ALT ≥ 2 . 5 X ULN and patients were excluded if they had liver metastases .
Table 3 shows adverse reactions on the abiraterone acetate arm in Study 2 that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients with a ≥ 2 % absolute increase in frequency compared to placebo .
The median duration of treatment with abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid was 13 . 8 months .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5 % of Patients on the Abiraterone Acetate Arm in Study 2 Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 542 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 540 ) System Organ Class Adverse Reaction All Grades1 % Grade 3 - 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % General Disorders Fatigue 39 2 . 2 34 1 . 7 Edema2 25 0 . 4 21 1 . 1 Pyrexia 8 . 7 0 . 6 5 . 9 0 . 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Joint swelling / discomfort3 30 2 . 0 25 2 . 0 Groin Pain 6 . 6 0 . 4 4 . 1 0 . 7 Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation 23 0 . 4 19 0 . 6 Diarrhea 22 0 . 9 18 0 . 9 Dyspepsia 11 0 . 0 5 . 0 0 . 2 Vascular Disorders Hot Flush 22 0 . 2 18 0 . 0 Hypertension 22 3 . 9 13 3 . 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 17 0 . 0 14 0 . 2 Dyspnea 12 2 . 4 9 . 6 0 . 9 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 14 0 . 2 11 0 . 0 Injury , poisoning and procedural complications Contusion 13 0 . 0 9 . 1 0 . 0 Falls 5 . 9 0 . 0 3 . 3 0 . 0 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 13 0 . 0 8 . 0 0 . 0 Nasopharyngitis 11 0 . 0 8 . 1 0 . 0 Renal and urinary disorders Hematuria 10 1 . 3 5 . 6 0 . 6 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 8 . 1 0 . 0 3 . 7 0 . 0 1 Adverse events graded according to CTCAE version 3 . 0 2 Includes terms Edema peripheral , Pitting edema , and Generalized edema 3 Includes terms Arthritis , Arthralgia , Joint swelling , and Joint stiffness Table 4 shows laboratory abnormalities that occurred in greater than 15 % of patients , and more frequently ( > 5 % ) in the abiraterone acetate arm compared to placebo in Study 2 .
Table 4 : Laboratory Abnormalities in > 15 % of Patients in the Abiraterone Acetate Arm of Study 2 Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 542 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 540 ) Laboratory Abnormality Grade 1 - 4 % Grade 3 - 4 % Grade 1 - 4 % Grade 3 - 4 % Hematology Lymphopenia 38 8 . 7 32 7 . 4 Chemistry Hyperglycemia1 57 6 . 5 51 5 . 2 High ALT 42 6 . 1 29 0 . 7 High AST 37 3 . 1 29 1 . 1 Hypernatremia 33 0 . 4 25 0 . 2 Hypokalemia 17 2 . 8 10 1 . 7 1 Based on non - fasting blood draws Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions In the combined data for studies 1 and 2 , cardiac failure occurred more commonly in patients treated with abiraterone acetate compared to patients on the placebo arm ( 2 . 1 % versus 0 . 7 % ) .
Grade 3 - 4 cardiac failure occurred in 1 . 6 % of patients taking abiraterone acetate and led to 5 treatment discontinuations and 2 deaths .
Grade 3 - 4 cardiac failure occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients taking placebo .
There were no treatment discontinuations and one death due to cardiac failure in the placebo group .
In Study 1 and 2 , the majority of arrhythmias were grade 1 or 2 .
There was one death associated with arrhythmia and one patient with sudden death in the abiraterone acetate arms and no deaths in the placebo arms .
There were 7 ( 0 . 5 % ) deaths due to cardiorespiratory arrest in the abiraterone acetate arms and 3 ( 0 . 3 % ) deaths in the placebo arms .
Myocardial ischemia or myocardial infarction led to death in 3 patients in the placebo arms and 2 deaths in the abiraterone acetate arms .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of abiraterone acetate with a different corticosteroid .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : non - infectious pneumonitis .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : myopathy , including rhabdomyolysis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : fulminant hepatitis , including acute hepatic failure and death .
Cardiac Disorders : QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes ( observed in patients who developed hypokalemia or had underlying cardiovascular conditions ) .
Immune System Disorders – Hypersensitivity : anaphylactic reactions ( severe allergic reactions that include , but are not limited to difficulty swallowing or breathing , swollen face , lips , tongue or throat , or an itchy rash ( urticaria ) ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP3A4 Inducers : Avoid concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers during YONSA treatment .
If a strong CYP3A4 inducer must be co - administered , increase the YONSA dosing frequency ( 2 . 4 , 7 . 1 ) • CYP2D6 Substrates : Avoid co - administration of YONSA with CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index .
If an alternative treatment cannot be used , exercise caution and consider a dose reduction of the concomitant CYP2D6 substrate ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on YONSA Strong CYP3A4 Inducers The co - administration of rifampin , a strong CYP3A4 inducer , decreased exposure of abiraterone by 55 % .
Avoid concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers during YONSA treatment .
If a strong CYP3A4 inducer must be co - administered with YONSA , increase the YONSA dosing frequency [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effect of YONSA on Other Drugs CYP2D6 Substrates Abiraterone is an inhibitor of the hepatic drug - metabolizing enzymes CYP2D6 .
The co - administration of YONSA with CYP2D6 substrates increases the concentration of the CYP2D6 substrate , which may increase the frequency and / or severity of adverse reactions of these substrates .
Avoid co - administration of abiraterone acetate with substrates of CYP2D6 with a narrow therapeutic index .
If alternative treatments cannot be used , consider a dose reduction of the concomitant CYP2D6 substrate drug in accordance with its Prescribing Information [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
CYP2C8 Substrates Abiraterone is an inhibitor of the hepatic drug - metabolizing enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP2C8 .
The co - administration of YONSA with CYP2C8 substrates increases the concentration of the CYP2C8 substrate , which may increase the frequency and / or severity of adverse reactions of these substrates .
Therefore , patients should be monitored closely for signs of toxicity related to a CYP2C8 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index if used concomitantly with abiraterone acetate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Do not use YONSA in patients with baseline severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of YONSA have not been established in females .
Based on findings from animal studies and the mechanism of action , YONSA can cause fetal harm and potential loss of pregnancy .
There are no human data on the use of YONSA in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of abiraterone acetate to pregnant rats during organogenesis , caused adverse developmental effects at maternal exposures of approximately ≥ 0 . 03 times the human exposure ( AUC ) at the recommended dose ( see Data ) .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal developmental toxicity study in rats , abiraterone acetate caused developmental toxicity when administered at oral doses of 10 , 30 or 100 mg / kg / day throughout the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 - 17 ) .
Findings included embryo - fetal lethality ( increased post implantation loss and resorptions and decreased number of live fetuses ) , fetal developmental delay ( skeletal effects ) and urogenital effects ( bilateral ureter dilation ) at doses > 10 mg / kg / day , decreased fetal ano - genital distance at > 30 mg / kg / day , and decreased fetal body weight at 100 mg / kg / day .
Doses > 10 mg / kg / day caused maternal toxicity .
The doses tested in rats resulted in systemic exposures ( AUC ) approximately 0 . 03 , 0 . 1 and 0 . 3 times , respectively , the AUC in patients .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of YONSA have not been established in females .
There is no information available on the presence of abiraterone acetate in human milk , or on the effects on the breastfed child or milk production .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Males Based on findings in animal reproduction studies and its mechanism of action , advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose of YONSA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Based on animal studies , abiraterone acetate may impair reproductive function and fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of abiraterone acetate in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients receiving abiraterone acetate in the two randomized trials , 73 % of patients were 65 years and over and 30 % were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these elderly patients and younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of abiraterone were examined in subjects with baseline mild ( N = 8 ) or moderate ( N = 8 ) hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B , respectively ) and in 8 healthy control subjects with normal hepatic function .
The systemic exposure ( AUC ) of abiraterone after a single oral dose equivalent to 500 mg of YONSA increased by approximately 1 . 1 - fold and 3 . 6 - fold in subjects with mild and moderate baseline hepatic impairment , respectively compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
In another trial , the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone were examined in subjects with baseline severe ( N = 8 ) hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) and in 8 healthy control subjects with normal hepatic function .
The systemic exposure ( AUC ) of abiraterone increased by approximately 7 - fold and the fraction of free drug increased 2 - fold in subjects with severe baseline hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
No dosage modification is recommended for patients with baseline mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
In patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , reduce the recommended dose of YONSA to 125 mg once daily .
Do not use YONSA in patients with baseline severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
If elevations in ALT or AST > 5 X ULN or total bilirubin > 3 X ULN occur in patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment , discontinue abiraterone acetate treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients who develop hepatotoxicity during treatment , interruption of treatment and dosage adjustment may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dosage modification is receommended for patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Human experience of overdose with YONSA is limited .
There is no specific antidote .
In the event of an overdose , stop YONSA , undertake general supportive measures , including monitoring for arrhythmias and cardiac failure and assess liver function .
11 DESCRIPTION Abiraterone acetate , the active ingredient of YONSA tablet is the acetyl ester of abiraterone .
Abiraterone is an inhibitor of CYP17 ( 17α - hydroxylase / C17 , 20 - lyase ) .
Each YONSA Tablet contains 125 mg of abiraterone acetate .
Abiraterone acetate is designated chemically as ( 3β ) 17 - ( 3 - pyridinyl ) androsta - 5 , 16 - dien - 3 - yl acetate and its structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Abiraterone acetate is micronized ( smaller particle size ) white to off - white , non - hygroscopic , crystalline powder .
Its molecular formula is C26H33NO2 and it has a molecular weight of 391 . 55 .
Abiraterone acetate is a lipophilic compound with an octanol - water partition coefficient of 5 . 12 ( Log P ) and is practically insoluble in water .
The pKa of the aromatic nitrogen is 5 . 19 .
Inactive ingredients in the tablets are lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium stearyl fumarate , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Abiraterone acetate ( YONSA ) is converted in vivo to abiraterone , an androgen biosynthesis inhibitor , that inhibits 17 α - hydroxylase / C17 , 20 - lyase ( CYP17 ) .
This enzyme is expressed in testicular , adrenal , and prostatic tumor tissues and is required for androgen biosynthesis .
CYP17 catalyzes two sequential reactions : 1 ) the conversion of pregnenolone and progesterone to their 17α - hydroxy derivatives by 17α - hydroxylase activity and 2 ) the subsequent formation of dehydroepiandrosterone ( DHEA ) and androstenedione , respectively , by C17 , 20 - lyase activity .
DHEA and androstenedione are androgens and are precursors of testosterone .
Inhibition of CYP17 by abiraterone can also result in increased mineralocorticoid production by the adrenals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Androgen sensitive prostatic carcinoma responds to treatment that decreases androgen levels .
Androgen deprivation therapies , such as treatment with GnRH agonists or orchiectomy , decrease androgen production in the testes but do not affect androgen production by the adrenals or in the tumor .
Abiraterone acetate decreased serum testosterone and other androgens in patients in the placebo - controlled clinical trial .
It is not necessary to monitor the effect of YONSA on serum testosterone levels .
Changes in serum prostate specific antigen ( PSA ) levels may be observed but have not been shown to correlate with clinical benefit in individual patients .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a clinical study in patients with metastatic CRPC who were treated with YONSA 500 mg once daily and methylprednisolone 4 mg twice daily for 84 days , the average serum testosterone level ± standard deviation ( SD ) on days 9 and 10 of treatment was 0 . 33 ± 0 . 09 ng / dL .
Cardiac Electrophysiology In a multi - center , open - label , single - arm trial , 33 patients with metastatic CRPC received a dose of 1 , 000 mg once daily orally of another abiraterone acetate product at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal in combination with a different corticosteroid orally twice daily .
Assessments up to Cycle 2 Day 2 showed no large changes in the QTc interval ( i . e . , > 20 ms ) from baseline .
However , small increases in the QTc interval ( i . e . , < 10 ms ) due to abiraterone acetate cannot be excluded due to study design limitations .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following administration of abiraterone acetate , the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone have been studied in healthy subjects and in patients with metastatic CRPC .
In vivo , abiraterone acetate is converted to abiraterone .
In clinical studies of other abiraterone acetate formulations , abiraterone acetate plasma concentrations were below detectable levels ( < 0 . 2 ng / mL ) in > 99 % of the analyzed samples .
Geometric mean ± SD abiraterone Cmax was 73 ± 44 ng / mL and AUC0 - ∞ was 373 ± 249 ng · hr / mL following a single dose of YONSA 500 mg in overnight fasted healthy subjects .
Dose proportionality was observed in single doses of YONSA in a range of 125 mg to 625 mg .
Absorption Following oral administration of YONSA to patients with metastatic CRPC , the median time to reach maximum plasma abiraterone concentrations is 2 hours .
Effect of Food Abiraterone Cmax was approximately 6 . 5 - fold higher and AUC0 - ∞ was 4 . 4 - fold higher when a single dose of YONSA 500 mg was administered with a high - fat meal ( 56 - 60 % fat , 900 - 1 , 000 calories ) compared to overnight fasting in healthy subjects .
YONSA can be taken with or without food .
Distribution Abiraterone is highly bound ( > 99 % ) to the human plasma proteins , albumin and alpha - 1 acid glycoprotein .
The apparent steady - state volume of distribution ( mean ± SD ) is 19 , 669 ± 13 , 358 L . Elimination In patients with metastatic CRPC , the mean terminal half - life of abiraterone in plasma ( mean ± SD ) is 12 ± 5 hours .
Metabolism Following oral administration of 14 C - abiraterone acetate as capsules , abiraterone acetate is hydrolyzed to abiraterone ( active metabolite ) .
The conversion is likely through esterase activity ( the esterases have not been identified ) and is not CYP mediated .
The two main circulating metabolites of abiraterone in human plasma are abiraterone sulphate ( inactive ) and N - oxide abiraterone sulphate ( inactive ) , which account for about 43 % of exposure each .
CYP3A4 and SULT2A1 are the enzymes involved in the formation of N - oxide abiraterone sulphate and SULT2A1 is involved in the formation of abiraterone sulphate .
Excretion Following oral administration of 14 C - abiraterone acetate , approximately 88 % of the radioactive dose is recovered in feces and approximately 5 % in urine .
The major compounds present in feces are unchanged abiraterone acetate and abiraterone ( approximately 55 % and 22 % of the administered dose , respectively ) .
Specific Populations Patients with Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of abiraterone was examined in subjects with baseline mild ( N = 8 ) or moderate ( N = 8 ) hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B , respectively ) and in 8 healthy control subjects with normal hepatic function .
Systemic exposure to abiraterone after a single oral 1 , 000 mg dose of another abiraterone acetate product given under fasting conditions increased approximately 1 . 1 - fold and 3 . 6 - fold in subjects with mild and moderate baseline hepatic impairment , respectively .
The mean half - life of abiraterone is prolonged to approximately 18 hours in subjects with mild hepatic impairment and to approximately 19 hours in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment .
In another trial , the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone were examined in subjects with baseline severe ( N = 8 ) hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) and in 8 healthy control subjects with normal hepatic function .
The systemic exposure ( AUC ) of abiraterone increased by approximately 7 - fold in subjects with severe baseline hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
In addition , the mean protein binding was found to be lower in the severe hepatic impairment group compared to the normal hepatic function group , which resulted in a two - fold increase in the fraction of free drug in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Patients with Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of abiraterone were examined in patients with end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) on a stable hemodialysis schedule ( N = 8 ) and in matched control subjects with normal renal function ( N = 8 ) .
In the ESRD cohort of the trial , a single 1 , 000 mg dose of another abiraterone acetate product was given under fasting conditions 1 hour after dialysis , and samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were collected up to 96 hours post dose .
Systemic exposure to abiraterone after a single oral 1 , 000 mg dose of another abiraterone acetate product did not increase in subjects with end - stage renal disease on dialysis , compared to subjects with normal renal function .
Drug Interactions Studies Clinical Studies Effect of Other Drugs on Abiraterone Strong CYP3A4 inducers : In a clinical pharmacokinetic interaction study of healthy subjects , pretreated with a strong CYP3A4 inducer ( rifampin , 600 mg daily for 6 days ) followed by a single dose of 1 , 000 mg of another abiraterone acetate product that is dose equivalent to a single YONSA 500 mg dose , the mean plasma AUC ∞ of abiraterone was decreased by 55 % .
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : Co - administration of ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 , had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone .
Effect of Abiraterone on Other Drugs CYP2D6 substrates : The Cmax and AUC of dextromethorphan ( CYP2D6 substrate ) were increased 2 . 8 - and 2 . 9 - fold , respectively when dextromethorphan 30 mg was given with another abiraterone acetate product of 1 , 000 mg daily that is dose equivalent to YONSA 500 mg daily .
The AUC for dextrorphan , the active metabolite of dextromethorphan , increased approximately 1 . 3 fold .
CYP1A2 substrates : When another abiraterone acetate product of 1 , 000 mg daily that is dose equivalent to YONSA 500 mg daily was given with a single dose of 100 mg theophylline ( CYP1A2 substrate ) , no increase in systemic exposure of theophylline was observed .
CYP2C8 substrates : The AUC of pioglitazone ( CYP2C8 substrate ) was increased by 46 % when pioglitazone was given to healthy subjects with a single dose of 1 , 000 mg of another abiraterone acetate product that is dose equivalent to a single YONSA 500 mg dose .
In Vitro Studies Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) Enzymes : Abiraterone is a substrate of CYP3A4 and has the potential to inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , CYP2C8 and to a lesser extent CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 / 5 .
Transporter Systems : In vitro studies show that at clinically relevant concentrations , abiraterone acetate and abiraterone are not substrates of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and that abiraterone acetate is an inhibitor of P - gp .
In vitro , abiraterone and its major metabolites were shown to inhibit the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 .
There are no clinical data available to confirm transporter based interaction .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility A two - year carcinogenicity study was conducted in rats at abiraterone acetate oral doses of 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day for males and 15 , 50 , and 150 mg / kg / day for females .
Abiraterone acetate increased the combined incidence of interstitial cell adenomas and carcinomas in the testes at all dose levels tested .
This finding is considered to be related to the pharmacological activity of abiraterone .
Rats are regarded as more sensitive than humans to developing interstitial cell tumors in the testes .
Abiraterone acetate was not carcinogenic in female rats at exposure levels up to 0 . 8 times the human clinical exposure based on AUC .
Abiraterone acetate was not carcinogenic in a 6 - month study in the transgenic ( Tg . rasH2 ) mouse .
Abiraterone acetate and abiraterone was not mutagenic in an in vitro microbial mutagenesis ( Ames ) assay or clastogenic in an in vitro cytogenetic assay using primary human lymphocytes or an in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
In repeat - dose toxicity studies in male rats ( 13 - and 26 - weeks ) and monkeys ( 39 - weeks ) , atrophy , aspermia / hypospermia , and hyperplasia in the reproductive system were observed at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day in rats and ≥ 250 mg / kg / day in monkeys and were consistent with the antiandrogenic pharmacological activity of abiraterone .
These effects were observed in rats at systemic exposures similar to humans and in monkeys at exposures approximately 0 . 6 times the AUC in humans .
In a fertility study in male rats , reduced organ weights of the reproductive system , sperm counts , sperm motility , altered sperm morphology and decreased fertility were observed in animals dosed for 4 weeks at ≥ 30 mg / kg / day orally .
Mating of untreated females with males that received 30 mg / kg / day oral abiraterone acetate resulted in a reduced number of corpora lutea , implantations and live embryos and an increased incidence of pre - implantation loss .
Effects on male rats were reversible after 16 weeks from the last abiraterone acetate administration .
In a fertility study in female rats , animals dosed orally for 2 weeks until day 7 of pregnancy at > 30 mg / kg / day had an increased incidence of irregular or extended estrous cycles and pre - implantation loss ( 300 mg / kg / day ) .
There were no differences in mating , fertility , and litter parameters in female rats that received abiraterone acetate .
Effects on female rats were reversible after 4 weeks from the last abiraterone acetate administration .
The dose of 30 mg / kg / day in rats is approximately 0 . 6 times the recommended dose of 500 mg of YONSA / day based on body surface area .
In 13 - and 26 - week studies in rats and 13 - and 39 - week studies in monkeys , a reduction in circulating testosterone levels occurred with abiraterone acetate at approximately one half the human clinical exposure based on AUC .
As a result , decreases in organ weights and toxicities were observed in the male and female reproductive system , adrenal glands , liver , pituitary ( rats only ) , and male mammary glands .
The changes in the reproductive organs are consistent with the antiandrogenic pharmacological activity of abiraterone acetate .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology A dose - dependent increase in cataracts was observed in rats after daily oral abiraterone acetate administration for 26 weeks starting at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ( similar to the human clinical exposure based on AUC ) .
In a 39 - week monkey study with daily oral abiraterone acetate administration , no cataracts were observed at higher doses ( 2 times greater than the clinical exposure based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of abiraterone acetate with prednisone in patients with metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer ( CRPC ) that has progressed on androgen deprivation therapy was demonstrated in two randomized , placebo - controlled , international clinical studies .
Patients with prior ketoconazole treatment for prostate cancer and a history of adrenal gland or pituitary disorders were excluded from these trials .
Concurrent use of spironolactone was not allowed during the study period .
Study 1 : Patients with metastatic CRPC who had received prior docetaxel chemotherapy A total of 1195 patients were randomized 2 : 1 to receive either abiraterone acetate orally at a dose equivalent to 500 mg of YONSA once daily in combination with a different corticosteroid orally twice daily ( N = 797 ) or placebo once daily plus a different corticosteroid orally twice daily ( N = 398 ) .
Patients randomized to either arm were to continue treatment until disease progression ( defined as a 25 % increase in PSA over the patient ’ s baseline / nadir together with protocol - defined radiographic progression and symptomatic or clinical progression ) , initiation of new treatment , unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal .
The following patient demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the treatment arms .
The median age was 69 years ( range 39 - 95 ) and the racial distribution was 93 % Caucasian , 3 . 6 % Black , 1 . 7 % Asian , and 1 . 6 % Other .
Eighty - nine percent of patients enrolled had an ECOG performance status score of 0 - 1 and 45 % had a Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form score of ≥ 4 ( patient ’ s reported worst pain over the previous 24 hours ) .
Ninety percent of patients had metastases in bone and 30 % had visceral involvement .
Seventy percent of patients had radiographic evidence of disease progression and 30 % had PSA - only progression .
Seventy percent of patients had previously received one cytotoxic chemotherapy regimen and 30 % received two regimens .
The protocol pre - specified interim analysis was conducted after 552 deaths and showed a statistically significant improvement in overall survival ( OS ) in patients treated with abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid compared to patients in the placebo with a corticosteroid arm ( Table 5 and Figure 1 ) .
An updated survival analysis was conducted when 775 deaths ( 97 % of the planned number of deaths for final analysis ) were observed .
Results from this analysis were consistent with those from the interim analysis ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Overall Survival of Patients Treated with Either Abiraterone Acetate or Placebo in Combination with Corticosteroid in Study 1 ( Intent - to - Treat Analysis ) Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 797 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 398 ) Primary Survival Analysis Deaths ( % ) 333 ( 42 % ) 219 ( 55 % ) Median survival ( months ) 14 . 8 ( 14 . 1 , 15 . 4 ) 10 . 9 ( 10 . 2 , 12 . 0 ) ( 95 % CI ) p - value1 < 0 . 0001 Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 2 0 . 646 ( 0 . 543 , 0 . 768 ) Updated Survival Analysis Deaths ( % ) 501 ( 63 % ) 274 ( 69 % ) Median survival ( months ) 15 . 8 ( 14 . 8 , 17 . 0 ) 11 . 2 ( 10 . 4 , 13 . 1 ) ( 95 % CI ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 2 0 . 740 ( 0 . 638 , 0 . 859 ) 1 p - value is derived from a log - rank test stratified by ECOG performance status score ( 0 - 1 vs . 2 ) , pain score ( absent vs . present ) , number of prior chemotherapy regimens ( 1 vs . 2 ) , and type of disease progression ( PSA only vs . radiographic ) 2 Hazard Ratio is derived from a stratified proportional hazards model .
Hazard ratio < 1 favors abiraterone acetate with prednisone .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Overall Survival Curves in Study 1 ( Intent - to - Treat Analysis ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 : Patients with metastatic CRPC who had not received prior cytotoxic chemotherapy In Study 2 , 1088 patients were randomized 1 : 1 to receive either abiraterone acetate at a dose equivalent to 500 mg of YONSA once daily ( N = 546 ) or Placebo orally once daily ( N = 542 ) .
Both arms were also given a different corticosteroid twice daily .
Patients continued treatment until radiographic or clinical ( cytotoxic chemotherapy , radiation or surgical treatment for cancer , pain requiring chronic opioids , or ECOG performance status decline to 3 or more ) disease progression , unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal .
Patients with moderate or severe pain , opiate use for cancer pain , or visceral organ metastases were excluded .
Patient demographics were balanced between the treatment arms .
The median age was 70 years .
The racial distribution of patients treated with abiraterone acetate was 95 % Caucasian , 2 . 8 % Black , 0 . 7 % Asian and 1 . 1 % Other .
The ECOG performance status was 0 for 76 % of patients , and 1 for 24 % of patients .
Co - primary efficacy endpoints were overall survival and radiographic progression - free survival ( rPFS ) .
Baseline pain assessment was 0 - 1 ( asymptomatic ) in 66 % of patients and 2 - 3 ( mildly symptomatic ) in 26 % of patients as defined by the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form ( worst pain over the last 24 hours ) .
Radiographic progression - free survival was assessed with the use of sequential imaging studies and was defined by bone scan identification of 2 or more new bone lesions with confirmation ( Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 criteria ) and / or modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors ( RECIST ) criteria for progression of soft tissue lesions .
Analysis of rPFS utilized centrally - reviewed radiographic assessment of progression .
The planned final analysis for OS , conducted after 741 deaths ( median follow up of 49 months ) demonstrated a statistically significant OS improvement in patients treated with abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid compared to those treated with placebo with a corticosteroid ( Table 6 and Figure 2 ) .
Sixty - five percent of patients on the abiraterone acetate arm and 78 % of patients on the placebo arm used subsequent therapies that may prolong OS in metastatic CRPC .
Abiraterone acetate was used as a subsequent therapy in 13 % of patients on the abiraterone acetate arm and 44 % of patients on the placebo arm .
Table 6 : Overall Survival of Patients Treated with Either Abiraterone Acetate or Placebo in Combination with Corticosteroid in Study 2 ( Intent - to - Treat Analysis ) Overall Survival Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 546 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 542 ) Deaths 354 ( 65 % ) 387 ( 71 % ) Median survival ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) 34 . 7 ( 3 . 7 , 36 . 8 ) 30 . 3 ( 28 . 7 , 33 . 3 ) p - value1 0 . 0033 Hazard ratio2 ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 81 ( 0 . 70 , 0 . 93 ) 1 p - value is derived from a log - rank test stratified by ECOG performance status score ( 0 vs . 1 ) .
2 Hazard Ratio is derived from a stratified proportional hazards model .
Hazard ratio < 1 favors abiraterone acetate with prednisone .
Figure 2 : Kaplan Meier Overall Survival Curves in Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] At the pre - specified rPFS analysis , 150 ( 28 % ) patients treated with abiraterone acetate with a corticosteroid and 251 ( 46 % ) patients treated with placebo with a corticosteroid had radiographic progression .
A significant difference in rPFS between treatment groups was observed ( Table 7 and Figure 3 ) .
Table 7 : Radiographic Progression - free Survival of Patients Treated with Either Abiraterone Acetate or Placebo in Combination with Corticosteroid in Study 2 ( Intent - to - Treat Analysis ) Radiographic Progression - free Survival Abiraterone Acetate with Corticosteroid ( N = 546 ) Placebo with Corticosteroid ( N = 542 ) Progression or death 150 ( 28 % ) 251 ( 46 % ) Median rPFS ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) NR ( 11 . 66 , NR ) 8 . 28 ( 8 . 12 , 8 . 54 ) p - value1 < 0 . 0001 Hazard ratio2 ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 425 ( 0 . 347 , 0 . 522 ) NR = Not Reached 1 p - value is derived from a log - rank test stratified by ECOG performance status score ( 0 vs . 1 ) .
2 Hazard Ratio is derived from a stratified proportional hazards model .
Hazard ratio < 1 favors abiraterone acetate with prednisone .
Figure 3 : Kaplan Meier Curves of Radiographic Progression - free Survival in Study 2 ( Intent - to - Treat Analysis ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The primary efficacy analyses are supported by the following prospectively defined endpoints .
The median time to initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy was 25 . 2 months for patients in the abiraterone acetate arm and 16 . 8 months for patients in the placebo arm ( HR = 0 . 580 ; 95 % CI : [ 0 . 487 , 0 . 691 ] , p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The median time to opiate use for prostate cancer pain was not reached for patients receiving abiraterone acetate and was 23 . 7 months for patients receiving placebo ( HR = 0 . 686 ; 95 % CI : [ 0 . 566 , 0 . 833 ] , p = 0 . 0001 ) .
The time to opiate use result was supported by a delay in patient reported pain progression favoring the abiraterone acetate arm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING YONSA ( abiraterone acetate ) tablets , 125 mg White to off - white , oval - shaped tablets debossed with “ 125 FP ” on one side 120 tablets available in high - density polyethylene bottles with child resistant closure NDC Number 47335 - 401 - 81 Storage and Handling Store at 20 oC to 25 oC ( 68 oF to 77 oF ) ; excursions permitted in the range from 15 oC to 30 oC ( 59 oF to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep out of reach of children .
Based on its mechanism of action , YONSA may harm a developing fetus .
Women who are pregnant or women who may be pregnant should not handle YONSA tablets if broken , crushed , or damaged without protection , e . g . , gloves [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Hypokalemia , Fluid Retention , and Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions • Inform patients that YONSA is associated with hypertension , hypokalemia , and peripheral edema that may lead to QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes in patients who develop hypokalemia while taking YONSA .
Advise patients that their blood pressure , serum potassium and signs and symptoms of fluid retention will be monitored clinically at least monthly .
Advise patients to adhere to corticosteroids and to report symptoms of hypertension , hypokalemia , or edema to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Adrenocortical Insufficiency • Inform patients that YONSA with methylprednisolone is associated with adrenal insufficiency .
Advise patients to report symptoms of adrenocortical insufficiency to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity • Inform patients that YONSA is associated with severe hepatotoxicity .
Inform patients that their liver function will be monitored using blood tests .
Advise patients to immediately report symptoms of hepatotoxicity to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia • Inform patients that severe hypoglycemia has been reported when abiraterone acetate was administered to patients with pre - existing diabetes who were receiving medications containing thiazolidinediones ( including pioglitazone ) or repaglinide – antidiabetic drugs .
Advise patients with diabetes to monitor blood glucose levels during and after treatment with YONSA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Use in Combination with Radium Ra 223 Dichloride • Advise patients that radium Ra 223 dichloride showed an increase in mortality and an increased rate of fracture when used in combination with abiraterone acetate plus a corticosteroid .
Inform patients to speak with their healthcare provider about any other medications or treatment they are currently taking for prostate cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Dosing and Administration • Inform patients that YONSA tablets may not be interchangeable with other abiraterone acetate products due to different dosing and food effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Inform patients that YONSA is taken once daily with methylprednisolone twice daily and to not interrupt or stop either of these medications without consulting their healthcare provider [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Inform patients receiving GnRH therapy that they need to maintain this treatment during the course of treatment with YONSA [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to take YONSA tablets as a single dose once orally with or without food .
Instruct patients to swallow tablets whole with water and not to crush or chew the tablets [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Inform patients that if they miss a dose of YONSA or methylprednisolone , they should take their normal dose the following day .
If more than one daily dose is skipped , inform patients to contact their healthcare provider [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Inform patients that YONSA may harm a developing fetus and can cause loss of pregnancy .
• Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose of YONSA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise females who are pregnant or women who may be pregnant not to handle YONSA tablets if broken , crushed , or damaged without protection , e . g . , gloves [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Infertility • Advise male patients that YONSA may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Sun Pharma Global FZE Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 YONSA is a registered trademark of Sun Pharma Global FZE © 2022 Sun Pharma Global , FZE All rights reserved .
uspi - YONSA - tab - 00004 PATIENT INFORMATION YONSA ® ( Yon - suh ) ( abiraterone acetate ) tablets What is YONSA ?
YONSA is a prescription medicine that is used along with methylprednisolone .
YONSA is used to treat men with prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and no longer responds to medical or surgical treatment that lowers testosterone .
It is not known if YONSA is safe and effective in females or children .
Before taking YONSA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have heart problems • have liver problems • have diabetes • have a history of adrenal problems • have a history of pituitary problems • are receiving any other treatment for prostate cancer • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
YONSA can cause harm to your unborn baby and loss of pregnancy ( miscarriage ) .
Females who are or may become pregnant should not handle YONSA tablets if broken , crushed , or damaged without protection , such as gloves .
• have a partner who is pregnant or may become pregnant .
• Males who have female partners who are able to become pregnant should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with YONSA and for 3 weeks after the final dose of YONSA .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if YONSA passes into your breastmilk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take or treatments you receive , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
YONSA can interact with many other medicines .
You should not start or stop any medicine before you talk with the healthcare provider that prescribed YONSA .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take YONSA ?
• Take YONSA and methylprednisolone exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Take your prescribed dose of YONSA 1 time a day .
Take your prescribed dose of methylprednisolone 2 times a day .
• YONSA contains abiraterone acetate .
YONSA and other medicines that contain abiraterone acetate may not be the same .
• Do not switch between YONSA and other medicines that contain abiraterone acetate unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions carefully if you are switching between YONSA and another medicine that contains abiraterone acetate .
• Do not take YONSA and other medicines that contain abiraterone acetate on the same day .
• If you do not have enough YONSA to take your full dose or if you have any other questions about YONSA , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose of YONSA if needed .
• Do not change or stop taking your prescribed dose of YONSA or methylprednisolone without talking with your healthcare provider first .
• Take YONSA with or without food .
• Swallow YONSA tablets whole .
Do not crush or chew tablets .
• Take YONSA with water .
• If you miss a dose of YONSA or methylprednisolone , take your prescribed dose the following day .
If you miss more than 1 dose , tell your healthcare provider right away .
• If you are receiving gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) therapy , you should continue your therapy during treatment with YONSA and methylprednisolone .
• If you take too much YONSA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check for side effects .
What are the possible side effects of YONSA ?
YONSA may cause serious side effects , including : • High blood pressure ( hypertension ) , low blood potassium levels ( hypokalemia ) , fluid retention ( edema ) , and irregular heartbeats can happen during treatment with YONSA .
This can be life threatening .
To decrease the chance of this happening , you must take methylprednisolone with YONSA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood pressure , do blood tests to check your potassium levels , and check for any signs and symptoms of fluid retention every month during treatment with YONSA .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any of the following symptoms : • dizziness • fast or irregular heartbeats • feel faint or lightheaded • headache • confusion • muscle weakness • pain in your legs • swelling in your legs or feet • Adrenal problems may happen if you stop taking methylprednisolone , get an infection , or are under stress .
• Severe liver problems .
You may develop changes in liver function blood tests .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your liver before treatment with YONSA and during treatment with YONSA .
Liver failure may occur , which can lead to death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you notice any of the following changes : • yellowing of the skin or eyes • darkening of the urine • severe nausea or vomiting • Increased risk of bone fracture and death when YONSA and methylprednisolone , is used in combination with a type of radiation called radium Ra 223 dichloride .
Tell your healthcare provider about any other treatments you are taking for prostate cancer .
• Severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Severe low blood sugar with abiraterone acetate can happen in people who have diabetes and take certain antidiabetic medicines .
You and / or your healthcare provider should check your blood sugar levels regularly during treatment with abiraterone acetate and after you stop treatment .
Your healthcare provider may also need to change the dose of your antidiabetic medicines .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • headache • drowsiness • weakness • dizziness • confusion • irritability • hunger • fast heartbeat • sweating • feeling jittery The most common side effects of YONSA include : • feeling weak or tired • joint swelling or pain • swelling in your legs or feet • hot flushes • diarrhea • vomiting • cough • high blood pressure • shortness of breath • urinary tract infection • bruising • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • high blood cholesterol and triglycerides • high blood sugar levels • changes in liver function blood tests • low blood potassium levels • certain other abnormal blood tests YONSA may cause fertility problems in males , which may affect the ability to father children .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have concerns about fertility .
These are not all the possible side effects of YONSA .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store YONSA ?
• Store YONSA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep YONSA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of YONSA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use YONSA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give YONSA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about YONSA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in YONSA ?
Active ingredient : abiraterone acetate .
Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium stearyl fumarate , butylated hydroxyanisole , butylated hydroxytoluene .
Manufactured for Sun Pharma Global FZE Distributed by Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 YONSA is a registered trademark of Sun Pharma Global FZE © 2022 Sun Pharma Global , FZE All rights reserved .
For more information , call Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Inc at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or go to www . YONSA . net This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 03 / 2022 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
