Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose antifungal Use ( Athlete ' s Foot ) for the cure of most athlete ' s foot Use ( Jock Itch ) for the cure of most jock itch Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Do not use • on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ( Athlete ' s Foot ) • irritation occurs or there is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ( Jock Itch ) • irritation occurs or there is no improvement within 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( Athlete ' s Foot ) • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks • if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions ( Jock Itch ) • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • use daily for 2 weeks • if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information Store at 20 o - 25 oC ( 68 o - 77 oF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Product settles during shipment .
Package contains full net weight .
Inactive ingredients Aldioxa , Chloroxylenol , Croscarmellose Sodium , Fragrance , Imidazolidinyl Urea , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Sodium Acrylates Crosspolymer - 2 Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 833 - 279 - 6522 Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc . , Johnson City , TN 37604 ZEASORB is a registered trademark of Crown Laboratories , Inc .
P11552 . 01 © 2020 Crown Laboratories , Inc .
Principal Display Panel NDC 0316 - 0231 - 25 Zeasorb ® AF ANTIFUNGAL TREATMENT Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Super Absorbent Powder New & Improved cures most athlete ' s foot Absorbs & Repels Moisture Relieves : • Itching • Burning • Scaling Dermatologist Recommended Net wt .
2 . 5 oz ( 71 g ) Front Label : P11546 . 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0316 - 0232 - 25 Zeasorb ® AF ANTIFUNGAL TREATMENT Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Super Absorbent Powder New & Improved cures most jock itch Absorbs & Repels Moisture Relieves : • Itching • Burning • Scaling Dermatologist Recommended Net wt .
2 . 5 oz ( 71 g ) Front Label : P11551 . 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
