Description Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment USP belongs to the macrolide group of antibiotics .
The sterile ophthalmic ointment flows freely over the conjunctiva .
Erythromycin base , as crystals or powder , is slightly soluble in water , moderately soluble in ether , and readily soluble in alcohol or chloroform .
Erythromycin is an antibiotic produced from a strain of Streptomyces erythraeus .
It is basic and readily forms a salt when combined with an acid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C37H67NO13 Mol .
Wt .
733 . 94 Chemical Name : ( 3 R • , 4 S • , 5 S • , 6 R • , 7 R • , 9 R • , 11 R • , 12 R • , 13 S • , 14 R • ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - 0 - methyl - α - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - β - D - xylo - opyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione Each Gram Contains : ACTIVE : Erythromycin , USP 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) ; INACTIVES : White Petrolatum , Mineral Oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Microbiology Erythromycin inhibits protein synthesis without affecting nucleic acid synthesis .
Erythromycin is usually active against the following organisms in vitro and in clinical infections : Streptococcus pyogenes ( group A β - hemolytic ) , Alpha - hemolytic streptococci ( viridans group ) ; Staphylococcus aureus , including penicillinase - producing strains ( methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to erythromycin ) ; Streptococcus pneumoniae ; Mycoplasma pneumoniae ( Eaton Agent , PPLO ) ; Haemophilus influenzae ( not all strains of this organism are susceptible at the erythromycin concentrations ordinarily achieved ) ; Treponema pallidum ; Corynebacterium diphtheriae ; Neisseria gonorrhoeae ; Chlamydia trachomatis .
Indications and Usage For the treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and / or cornea caused by organisms susceptible to erythromycin .
For prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum due to N . gonorrhoeae or C . trachomatis .
The effectiveness of erythromycin in the prevention of ophthalmia caused by penicillinase - producing N . gonorrhoeae is not established .
For infants born to mothers with clinically apparent gonorrhea , intravenous or intramuscular injections of aqueous crystalline penicillin G should be given ; a single dose of 50 , 000 units for term infants or 20 , 000 units for infants of low birth weight .
Topical prophylaxis alone is inadequate for these infants .
Contraindications This drug is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to erythromycin .
Precautions General The use of antimicrobial agents may be associated with the overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms including fungi ; in such a case , antibiotic administration should be stopped and appropriate measures taken .
Information for patients Avoid contaminating the tip of container with material from the eye , fingers or other source .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Avoid contaminating the tip of container with material from the eye , fingers or other source .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits using erythromycin and its various salts and esters , at doses that were several multiples of the usual human dose .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , the erythromycins should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers Caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use See Indications and Usage and Dosage and Administration .
Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions are minor ocular irritations , redness and hypersensitivity reactions .
Dosage and Administration In the treatment of superficial ocular infections , erythromycin ophthalmic ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be applied directly to the infected eye ( s ) up to six times daily , depending on the severity of the infection .
For prophylaxis of neonatal gonococcal or chlamydial ophthalmia , a ribbon of ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be instilled into each lower conjunctival sac .
The ointment should not be flushed from the eye following instillation .
A new tube should be used for each infant .
How Supplied Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment USP , 0 . 5 % is available in the following sizes : 1 / 8 oz .
( 3 . 5 g ) tamper - resistant tube – 09234 DO NOT USE IF CAP AND NECKRING ARE NOT INTACT .
DO NOT USE IF BOTTOM RIDGE OF TUBE CAP IS EXPOSED .
Storage Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised February 2007 Rx only Manufacturer Information Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
