DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Salicylic Acid 0 . 50 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only • Avoid contact with the eyes .
Before using for the first time , apply a small amount to the affected area for 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , then follow directions for use .
Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive Ingredients Water , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Bark / Leaf / Twig Extract , Glycerin , Sorbitol , Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe ) Leaf Juice , Gluconolactone , Alcohol , Solanum Lycopersicum ( Tomato ) Fruit Extract [ 1 ] , Rubus Villosus ( Blackberry ) Fruit Extract , Citrullus Vulgaris ( Watermelon ) Fruit Extract , Melia Azadirachta ( Neem ) Leaf Extract , Melia Azadirachta ( Neem ) Flower Extract , Lens Esculenta ( Lentil ) Seed Extract , Coccinia Indica Fruit Extract , Corallina Officinalis Extract , Camelllia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Amino Esters - 1 , Betaine , Caramel , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance .
[ 1 ] Certified Organic Ingredient Questions ?
1 - 888 - 92 - Yes - To ( 1 - 888 - 929 - 3786 ) or visit www . yestocarrots . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 228 ml Bottle Label PENETRATES PORES TO ELIMINATE ACNE AND PREVENT NEW ACNE yesto ® tomatoes CLEAR SKIN acne acne clearing FACIAL TONER Yes to ™ tomatoes and witch hazel to leave skin feeling balanced & toned .
paraben - free Natural 98 % Product 7 . 7 fl oz / 228 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
