1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Ranolazine extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets may be used with beta - blockers , nitrates , calcium channel blockers , anti - platelet therapy , lipid - lowering therapy , ACE inhibitors , and angiotensin receptor blockers .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets are an antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily , based on clinical symptoms ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended - release tablet dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily , as needed , based on clinical symptoms .
Take ranolazine extended - release tablet with or without meals .
Swallow ranolazine extended - release tablet whole ; do not crush , break , or chew .
The maximum recommended daily dose of ranolazine extended - release tablet is 1000 mg twice daily .
If a dose of ranolazine extended - release tablet is missed , take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time ; do not double the next dose .
2 . 2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when ranolazine extended - release tablet is taken in combination with certain other drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Limit the maximum dose of ranolazine extended - release tablet to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as diltiazem , verapamil , and erythromycin .
Use of ranolazine extended - release tablet with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Use of P - gp inhibitors , such as cyclosporine , may increase exposure to ranolazine extended - release tablet .
Titrate ranolazine extended - release tablet based on clinical response [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Ranolazine is supplied as extended - release tablets in the following strengths : • 500 mg tablets are orange colored , oval shape , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 500 " on one side and " A47 " on other side .
• 1000 mg tablets are yellow colored , oval shape , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 1000 " on one side and A48 " on other side .
Extended - release tablets : 500 mg , 1000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients : • Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Taking inducers of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • With liver cirrhosis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] · Strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , nelfinavir ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) · CYP3A inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , phenobarbital , St . John ’ s wort ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) · Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8 . 6 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • QT interval prolongation : Can occur with ranolazine .
Little data available on high doses , long exposure , use with QT interval - prolonging drugs , potassium channel variants causing prolonged QT interval , in patients with a family history of ( or congenital ) long QT syndrome , or in patients with known acquired QT interval prolongation .
( 5 . 1 ) • Renal failure : Monitor renal function after initiation and periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( CrCL less than 60 mL / min ) .
If acute renal failure develops , discontinue ranolazine .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 QT Interval Prolongation Ranolazine blocks IKr and prolongs the QTc interval in a dose - related manner .
Clinical experience in an acute coronary syndrome population did not show an increased risk of proarrhythmia or sudden death [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
However , there is little experience with high doses ( greater than 1000 mg twice daily ) or exposure , other QT - prolonging drugs , potassium channel variants resulting in a long QT interval , in patients with a family history of ( or congenital ) long QT syndrome , or in patients with known acquired QT interval prolongation .
5 . 2 Renal Failure Acute renal failure has been observed in some patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CrCL ] less than 30 mL / min ) while taking ranolazine .
If acute renal failure develops ( e . g . , marked increase in serum creatinine associated with an increase in blood urea nitrogen [ BUN ] ) , discontinue ranolazine and treat appropriately [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Monitor renal function after initiation and periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( CrCL less than 60 mL / min ) for increases in serum creatinine accompanied by an increase in BUN .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( greater than 4 % and more common than with placebo ) are dizziness , headache , constipation , nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 2018 patients with chronic angina were treated with ranolazine in controlled clinical trials .
Of the patients treated with ranolazine , 1026 were enrolled in three double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies ( CARISA , ERICA , MARISA ) of up to 12 weeks ’ duration .
In addition , upon study completion , 1251 patients received treatment with ranolazine in open - label , long - term studies ; 1227 patients were exposed to ranolazine for more than 1 year , 613 patients for more than 2 years , 531 patients for more than 3 years , and 326 patients for more than 4 years .
At recommended doses , about 6 % of patients discontinued treatment with ranolazine because of an adverse event in controlled studies in angina patients compared to about 3 % on placebo .
The most common adverse events that led to discontinuation more frequently on ranolazine than placebo were dizziness ( 1 . 3 % versus 0 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 1 % versus 0 % ) , asthenia , constipation , and headache ( each about 0 . 5 % versus 0 % ) .
Doses above 1000 mg twice daily are poorly tolerated .
In controlled clinical trials of angina patients , the most frequently reported treatment - emergent adverse reactions ( greater than 4 % and more common on ranolazine than on placebo ) were dizziness ( 6 . 2 % ) , headache ( 5 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 4 . 5 % ) , and nausea ( 4 . 4 % ) .
Dizziness may be dose - related .
In open - label , long - term treatment studies , a similar adverse reaction profile was observed .
The following additional adverse reactions occurred at an incidence of 0 . 5 to 4 . 0 % in patients treated with ranolazine and were more frequent than the incidence observed in placebo - treated patients : Cardiac Disorders – bradycardia , palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders – tinnitus , vertigo Eye Disorders – blurred vision Gastrointestinal Disorders – abdominal pain , dry mouth , vomiting , dyspepsia General Disorders and Administrative Site Adverse Events – asthenia , peripheral edema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders – anorexia Nervous System Disorders – syncope ( vasovagal ) Psychiatric Disorders – confusional state Renal and Urinary Disorders – hematuria Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders – dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders – hyperhidrosis Vascular Disorders – hypotension , orthostatic hypotension Other ( less than 0 . 5 % ) but potentially medically important adverse reactions observed more frequently with ranolazine than placebo treatment in all controlled studies included : angioedema , renal failure , eosinophilia , chromaturia , blood urea increased , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , tremor , pulmonary fibrosis , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and pancytopenia .
A large clinical trial in acute coronary syndrome patients was unsuccessful in demonstrating a benefit for ranolazine , but there was no apparent proarrhythmic effect in these high - risk patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Ranolazine produces elevations of serum creatinine by 0 . 1 mg / dL , regardless of previous renal function , likely because of inhibition of creatinine ’ s tubular secretion .
In general , the elevation has a rapid onset , shows no signs of progression during long - term therapy , is reversible after discontinuation of ranolazine , and is not accompanied by changes in BUN .
In healthy volunteers , ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily had no effect upon the glomerular filtration rate .
More marked and progressive increases in serum creatinine , associated with increases in BUN or potassium , indicating acute renal failure , have been reported after initiation of ranolazine in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ranolazine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Nervous System Disorders – Abnormal coordination , myoclonus , paresthesia , tremor , and other serious neurologic adverse events have been reported to occur , sometimes concurrently , in patients taking ranolazine .
The onset of events was often associated with an increase in ranolazine dose or exposure .
Many patients reported symptom resolution following drug discontinuation or dose decrease .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders – Cases of hypoglycemia have been reported in diabetic patients on antidiabetic medication .
Psychiatric Disorders – hallucination Renal and Urinary Disorders – dysuria , urinary retention Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders – angioedema , pruritus , rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Moderate CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin ) : Limit ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily .
( 7 . 1 ) • P - gp inhibitors ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) : Ranolazine exposure increased . Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A substrates : Limit simvastatin to 20 mg when used with ranolazine .
Doses of other sensitive CYP3A substrates ( e . g . , lovastatin ) and CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range ( e . g . , cyclosporine , tacrolimus , sirolimus ) may need to be reduced with ranolazine .
( 7 . 2 ) • OCT2 substrates : Limit the dose of metformin to 1700 mg daily when used with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily .
Doses of other OCT2 substrates may require adjusted doses .
( 7 . 2 ) • Drugs transported by P - gp ( e . g . , digoxin ) , or drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) may need reduced doses when used with ranolazine .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors , including ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , nefazodone , nelfinavir , ritonavir , indinavir , and saquinavir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors , including diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin , fluconazole , and grapefruit juice or grapefruit - containing products [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
P - gp Inhibitors Concomitant use of ranolazine and P - gp inhibitors , such as cyclosporine , may result in increases in ranolazine concentrations .
Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P - gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
CYP3A Inducers Do not use ranolazine with CYP3A inducers such as rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentine , phenobarbital , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and St . John ’ s wort [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effects of Ranolazine on Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on any dose of ranolazine to 20 mg once daily , when ranolazine is co - administered .
Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates ( e . g . , lovastatin ) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range ( e . g . , cyclosporine , tacrolimus , sirolimus ) may be required as ranolazine may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs Transported by P - gp Concomitant use of ranolazine and digoxin results in increased exposure to digoxin .
The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 The exposure to CYP2D6 substrates , such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics , may be increased during co - administration with ranolazine , and lower doses of these drugs may be required .
Drugs Transported by OCT2 In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus , concomitant use of ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily and metformin results in increased plasma levels of metformin .
When ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily is co - administered with metformin , metformin dose should not exceed 1700 mg / day .
Monitor blood glucose levels and risks associated with high exposures of metformin .
Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine 500 mg twice daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on ranolazine use in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks .
Studies in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of fetal harm at exposures 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage of clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal toxicity studies were conducted in rats and rabbits orally administered ranolazine during organogenesis .
In rats , decreased fetal weight and reduced ossification were observed at doses ( corresponding to 4 - fold the AUC for the MRHD ) that caused maternal weight loss .
No adverse fetal effects were observed in either species exposed ( AUC ) to ranolazine at exposures ( AUC ) equal to the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ranolazine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , ranolazine is present in rat milk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ranolazine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ranolazine or from the underlying maternal condition .
Adult female rats were administered ranolazine orally from gestation day 6 through postnatal day 20 .
No adverse effects on pup development , behavior , or reproduction parameters were observed at a maternal dosage level of 60 mg / kg / day ( equal to the MHRD based on AUC ) .
At maternally toxic doses , male and female pups exhibited increased mortality and decreased body weight , and female pups showed increased motor activity .
The pups were potentially exposed to low amounts of ranolazine via the maternal milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the chronic angina patients treated with ranolazine in controlled studies , 496 ( 48 % ) were ≥ 65 years of age , and 114 ( 11 % ) were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in efficacy were observed between older and younger patients .
There were no differences in safety for patients ≥ 65 years compared to younger patients , but patients ≥ 75 years of age on ranolazine , compared to placebo , had a higher incidence of adverse events , serious adverse events , and drug discontinuations due to adverse events .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should usually start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease , or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients with liver cirrhosis .
In a study of cirrhotic patients , the Cmax of ranolazine was increased 30 % in cirrhotic patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A ) hepatic impairment , but increased 80 % in cirrhotic patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment compared to patients without hepatic impairment .
This increase was not enough to account for the 3 - fold increase in QT prolongation seen in cirrhotic patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment A pharmacokinetic study of ranolazine in subjects with severe renal impairment ( CrCL less than 30 mL / min ) was stopped when 2 of 4 subjects developed acute renal failure after receiving ranolazine 500 mg twice daily for 5 days ( lead - in phase ) followed by 1000 mg twice a day ( 1 dose in one subject and 11 doses in the other ) .
Increases in creatinine , BUN , and potassium were observed in 3 subjects during the 500 mg lead - in phase .
One subject required hemodialysis , while the other 2 subjects improved upon drug discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment .
Discontinue ranolazine if acute renal failure develops .
In a separate study , Cmax was increased between 40 % and 50 % in patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment compared to patients with no renal impairment , suggesting a similar increase in exposure in patients with renal failure independent of the degree of impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine has not been assessed in patients on dialysis .
8 . 8 Use in Patients with Heart Failure Heart failure ( NYHA Class I to IV ) had no significant effect on ranolazine pharmacokinetics .
Ranolazine had minimal effects on heart rate and blood pressure in patients with angina and heart failure NYHA Class I to IV .
No dose adjustment of ranolazine is required in patients with heart failure .
8 . 9 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus A population pharmacokinetic evaluation of data from angina patients and healthy subjects showed no effect of diabetes on ranolazine pharmacokinetics .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with diabetes .
Ranolazine produces small reductions in HbA1c in patients with diabetes , the clinical significance of which is unknown .
Ranolazine should not be considered a treatment for diabetes .
10 OVERDOSAGE Hypotension , QT prolongation , bradycardia , myoclonic activity , severe tremor , unsteady gait / incoordination , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , dysphasia , and hallucinations have been seen in cases of oral overdose of ranolazine .
In cases of extreme overdose of ranolazine fatal outcomes have been reported .
In clinical studies , high intravenous exposure resulted in diplopia , paresthesia , confusion , and syncope .
In addition to general supportive measures , continuous ECG monitoring may be warranted in the event of overdose .
Since ranolazine is about 62 % bound to plasma proteins , hemodialysis is unlikely to be effective in clearing ranolazine .
11 DESCRIPTION Ranolazine is available as a film - coated , non - scored , extended - release tablet for oral administration .
Ranolazine is a racemic mixture , chemically described as 1 - piperazineacetamide , N ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - 4 - [ 2 - hydroxy - 3 - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) propyl ] - , ( ± ) - .
It has an empirical formula of C24H33N3O4 , a molecular weight of 427 . 54 g / mole , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ranolazine is a white to off - white solid .
Ranolazine is soluble in dichloromethane and methanol ; sparingly soluble in tetrahydrofuran , ethanol , acetonitrile , and acetone ; slightly soluble in ethyl acetate , isopropanol , toluene , and ethyl ether ; and very slightly soluble in water .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets contain 500 mg or 1000 mg of ranolazine and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , sodium hydroxide , talc , titanium dioxide and additional inactive ingredients for the 500 mg tablet include iron oxide red .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ranolazine ’ s antianginal effects has not been determined .
Ranolazine has anti - ischemic and antianginal effects that do not depend upon reductions in heart rate or blood pressure .
It does not affect the rate - pressure product , a measure of myocardial work , at maximal exercise .
Ranolazine at therapeutic levels can inhibit the cardiac late sodium current ( INa ) .
However , the relationship of this inhibition to angina symptoms is uncertain .
The QT prolongation effect of ranolazine on the surface electrocardiogram is the result of inhibition of IKr , which prolongs the ventricular action potential .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamic Effects Patients with chronic angina treated with ranolazine in controlled clinical studies had minimal changes in mean heart rate ( less than 2 bpm ) and systolic blood pressure ( less than 3 mm Hg ) .
Similar results were observed in subgroups of patients with CHF NYHA Class I or II , diabetes , or reactive airway disease , and in elderly patients .
Electrocardiographic Effects Dose and plasma concentration - related increases in the QTc interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , reductions in T wave amplitude , and , in some cases , notched T waves , have been observed in patients treated with ranolazine .
These effects are believed to be caused by ranolazine and not by its metabolites .
The relationship between the change in QTc and ranolazine plasma concentrations is linear , with a slope of about 2 . 6 msec / 1000 ng / mL , through exposures corresponding to doses several - fold higher than the maximum recommended dose of 1000 mg twice daily .
The variable blood levels attained after a given dose of ranolazine give a wide range of effects on QTc .
At Tmax following repeat dosing at 1000 mg twice daily , the mean change in QTc is about 6 msec , but in the 5 % of the population with the highest plasma concentrations , the prolongation of QTc is at least 15 msec .
In cirrhotic subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , the relationship between plasma level of ranolazine and QTc is much steeper [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Age , weight , gender , race , heart rate , congestive heart failure , diabetes , and renal impairment did not alter the slope of the QTc - concentration relationship of ranolazine .
No proarrhythmic effects were observed on 7 - day Holter recordings in 3162 acute coronary syndrome patients treated with ranolazine .
There was a significantly lower incidence of arrhythmias ( ventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , supraventricular tachycardia , and new atrial fibrillation ) in patients treated with ranolazine ( 80 % ) versus placebo ( 87 % ) , including ventricular tachycardia ≥ 3 beats ( 52 % versus 61 % ) .
However , this difference in arrhythmias did not lead to a reduction in mortality , a reduction in arrhythmia hospitalization , or a reduction in arrhythmia symptoms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Ranolazine is extensively metabolized in the gut and liver and its absorption is highly variable .
For example , at a dose of 1000 mg twice daily , the mean steady - state Cmax was 2600 ng / mL with 95 % confidence limits of 400 and 6100 ng / mL .
The pharmacokinetics of the ( + ) R - and ( - ) S - enantiomers of ranolazine are similar in healthy volunteers .
The apparent terminal half - life of ranolazine is 7 hours .
Steady state is generally achieved within 3 days of twice - daily dosing with ranolazine .
At steady state over the dose range of 500 to 1000 mg twice daily , Cmax and AUC0 - τ increase slightly more than proportionally to dose , 2 . 2 - and 2 . 4 - fold , respectively .
With twice - daily dosing , the trough : peak ratio of the ranolazine plasma concentration is 0 . 3 to 0 . 6 .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine is unaffected by age , gender , or food .
Absorption and Distribution After oral administration of ranolazine , peak plasma concentrations of ranolazine are reached between 2 and 5 hours .
After oral administration of 14 C - ranolazine as a solution , 73 % of the dose is systemically available as ranolazine or metabolites .
The bioavailability of ranolazine from ranolazine tablets relative to that from a solution of ranolazine is 76 % .
Because ranolazine is a substrate of P - gp , inhibitors of P - gp may increase the absorption of ranolazine .
Food ( high - fat breakfast ) has no important effect on the Cmax and AUC of ranolazine .
Therefore , ranolazine may be taken without regard to meals .
Over the concentration range of 0 . 25 to 10 µg / mL , ranolazine is approximately 62 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Metabolism and Excretion Ranolazine is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and , to a lesser extent , by CYP2D6 .
Following a single oral dose of ranolazine solution , approximately 75 % of the dose is excreted in urine and 25 % in feces .
Ranolazine is metabolized rapidly and extensively in the liver and intestine ; less than 5 % is excreted unchanged in urine and feces .
The pharmacologic activity of the metabolites has not been well characterized .
After dosing to steady state with 500 mg to 1500 mg twice daily , the four most abundant metabolites in plasma have AUC values ranging from about 5 to 33 % that of ranolazine , and display apparent half - lives ranging from 6 to 22 hours .
Drug Interactions Effect of Other Drugs on Ranolazine In vitro data indicate that ranolazine is a substrate of CYP3A and , to a lesser degree , of CYP2D6 .
Ranolazine is also a substrate of P - glycoprotein .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily are increased by 220 % when co - administered with ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily are increased by 50 to 130 % by diltiazem 180 to 360 mg , respectively .
Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 750 mg twice daily are increased by 100 % by verapamil 120 mg three times daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Weak CYP3A Inhibitors The weak CYP3A inhibitors simvastatin ( 20 mg once daily ) and cimetidine ( 400 mg three times daily ) do not increase the exposure to ranolazine in healthy volunteers .
CYP3A Inducers Rifampin 600 mg once daily decreases the plasma concentrations of ranolazine ( 1000 mg twice daily ) by approximately 95 % [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors Paroxetine 20 mg once daily increased ranolazine concentrations by 20 % in healthy volunteers receiving ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily .
No dose adjustment of ranolazine is required in patients treated with CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Digoxin Plasma concentrations of ranolazine are not significantly altered by concomitant digoxin at 0 . 125 mg once daily .
Effect of Ranolazine on Other Drugs In vitro ranolazine and its O - demethylated metabolite are weak inhibitors of CYP3A and moderate inhibitors of CYP2D6 and P - gp .
In vitro ranolazine is an inhibitor of OCT2 .
CYP3A Substrates The plasma levels of simvastatin , a CYP3A substrate , and its active metabolite are increased by 100 % in healthy volunteers receiving 80 mg once daily and ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Mean exposure to atorvastatin ( 80 mg daily ) is increased by 40 % following co - administration with ranolazine ( 1000 mg twice daily ) in healthy volunteers .
However , in one subject the exposure to atorvastatin and metabolites was increased by ~ 400 % in the presence of ranolazine .
Diltiazem The pharmacokinetics of diltiazem is not affected by ranolazine in healthy volunteers receiving diltiazem 60 mg three times daily and ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily .
P - gp Substrates Ranolazine increases digoxin concentrations by 50 % in healthy volunteers receiving ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily and digoxin 0 . 125 mg once daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Substrates Ranolazine 750 mg twice daily increases the plasma concentrations of a single dose of immediate release metoprolol ( 100 mg ) , a CYP2D6 substrate , by 80 % in extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers with no need for dose adjustment of metoprolol .
In extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan , a substrate of CYP2D6 , ranolazine inhibits partially the formation of the main metabolite dextrorphan .
OCT2 Substrates In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the exposure to metformin is increased by 40 % and 80 % following administration of ranolazine 500 mg twice daily and 1000 mg twice daily , respectively .
If co - administered with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily , do not exceed metformin doses of 1700 mg / day [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Ranolazine tested negative for genotoxic potential in the following assays : Ames bacterial mutation assay , Saccharomyces assay for mitotic gene conversion , chromosomal aberrations assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , mammalian CHO / HGPRT gene mutation assay , and mouse and rat bone marrow micronucleus assays .
There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential in mice or rats .
The highest oral doses used in the carcinogenicity studies were 150 mg / kg / day for 21 months in rats ( 900 mg / m2 / day ) and 50 mg / kg / day for 24 months in mice ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) .
These maximally tolerated doses are 0 . 8 and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the daily maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2000 mg on a surface area basis .
A published study reported that ranolazine promoted tumor formation and progression to malignancy when given to transgenic APC ( min / + ) mice at a dose of 30 mg / kg twice daily [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
The clinical significance of this finding is unclear .
In male and female rats , oral administration of ranolazine that produced exposures ( AUC ) approximately 3 - fold or 5 - fold higher , respectively , than the MRHD had no effect on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Chronic Stable Angina CARISA ( Combination Assessment of Ranolazine In Stable Angina ) was a study in 823 chronic angina patients randomized to receive 12 weeks of treatment with twice - daily ranolazine 750 mg , 1000 mg , or placebo , who also continued on daily doses of atenolol 50 mg , amlodipine 5 mg , or diltiazem CD 180 mg .
Sublingual nitrates were used in this study as needed .
In this trial , statistically significant ( p less than 0 . 05 ) increases in modified Bruce treadmill exercise duration and time to angina were observed for each ranolazine dose versus placebo , at both trough ( 12 hours after dosing ) and peak ( 4 hours after dosing ) plasma levels , with minimal effects on blood pressure and heart rate .
The changes versus placebo in exercise parameters are presented in Table 1 .
Exercise treadmill results showed no increase in effect on exercise at the 1000 mg dose compared to the 750 mg dose .
Table 1 Exercise Treadmill Results ( CARISA ) Mean Difference from Placebo ( sec ) Study CARISA ( N = 791 ) Ranolazine Twice - daily Dose 750 mg 1000 mg Exercise Duration Trough Peak 24 a 34 b 24 a 26 a Time to Angina Trough Peak 30 a 38 b 26 a 38 b Time to 1 mm ST - Segment Depression Trough Peak 20 41 b 21 35 b a p - value ≤ 0 . 05 b p - value ≤ 0 . 005 The effects of ranolazine on angina frequency and nitroglycerin use are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( CARISA ) Placebo Ranolazine 750 mga Ranolazine 1000 mga Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) N 258 272 261 Mean 3 . 3 2 . 5 2 . 1 P - value vs placebo — 0 . 006 < 0 . 001 Nitroglycerin Use ( doses / week ) N 252 262 244 Mean 3 . 1 2 . 1 1 . 8 P - value vs placebo — 0 . 016 < 0 . 001 a Twice daily Tolerance to ranolazine did not develop after 12 weeks of therapy .
Rebound increases in angina , as measured by exercise duration , have not been observed following abrupt discontinuation of ranolazine .
Ranolazine has been evaluated in patients with chronic angina who remained symptomatic despite treatment with the maximum dose of an antianginal agent .
In the ERICA ( Efficacy of Ranolazine In Chronic Angina ) trial , 565 patients were randomized to receive an initial dose of ranolazine 500 mg twice daily or placebo for 1 week , followed by 6 weeks of treatment with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily or placebo , in addition to concomitant treatment with amlodipine 10 mg once daily .
In addition , 45 % of the study population also received long - acting nitrates .
Sublingual nitrates were used as needed to treat angina episodes .
Results are shown in Table 3 .
Statistically significant decreases in angina attack frequency ( p = 0 . 028 ) and nitroglycerin use ( p = 0 . 014 ) were observed with ranolazine compared to placebo .
These treatment effects appeared consistent across age and use of long - acting nitrates .
Table 3 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( ERICA ) Placebo Ranolazinea Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) N 281 277 Mean 4 . 3 3 . 3 Median 2 . 4 2 . 2 Nitroglycerin Use ( doses / week ) N 281 277 Mean 3 . 6 2 . 7 Median 1 . 7 1 . 3 a 1000 mg twice daily Gender Effects on angina frequency and exercise tolerance were considerably smaller in women than in men .
In CARISA , the improvement in Exercise Tolerance Test ( ETT ) in females was about 33 % of that in males at the 1000 mg twice - daily dose level .
In ERICA , where the primary endpoint was angina attack frequency , the mean reduction in weekly angina attacks was 0 . 3 for females and 1 . 3 for males .
Race There were insufficient numbers of non - Caucasian patients to allow for analyses of efficacy or safety by racial subgroup .
14 . 2 Lack of Benefit in Acute Coronary Syndrome In a large ( n = 6560 ) placebo - controlled trial ( MERLIN - TIMI 36 ) in patients with acute coronary syndrome , there was no benefit shown on outcome measures .
However , the study is somewhat reassuring regarding proarrhythmic risks , as ventricular arrhythmias were less common on ranolazine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , and there was no difference between ranolazine and placebo in the risk of all - cause mortality ( relative risk ranolazine : placebo 0 . 99 with an upper 95 % confidence limit of 1 . 22 ) .
15 REFERENCES M . A . Suckow et al .
The anti - ischemia agent ranolazine promotes the development of intestinal tumors in APC ( min / + ) mice .
Cancer Letters 209 ( 2004 : 165 − 9 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ranolazine is supplied as extended - release tablets in the following strengths : • 500 mg tablets are orange colored , oval shape , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 500 " on one side and " A47 " on other side .
• 1000 mg tablets are yellow colored , oval shape , biconvex coated tablets , debossed with " 1000 " on one side and A48 " on other side .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets are available in : Strength NDC Bottle of 60 500 67877 - 525 - 60 Bottle of 1000 500 67877 - 525 - 10 Carton of 100 ( 10 X 10 Unit - dose Tablets ) 500 67877 - 525 - 38 Bottle of 60 1000 67877 - 526 - 60 Bottle of 500 1000 67877 - 526 - 05 Carton of 100 ( 10 X 10 Unit - dose Tablets ) 1000 67877 - 526 - 38 Store ranolazine tablets at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Inform patients that ranolazine will not abate an acute angina episode .
Strong CY3PA Inhibitors , CYP3A Inducers , Liver Cirrhosis • Inform patients that ranolazine should not be used with drugs that are strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , nefazodone , ritonavir ) [ ( see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that ranolazine should not be used with drugs that are inducers of CYP3A ( e . g . , rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentine , barbiturates , carbamazepine , phenytoin , St . John ’ s wort ) [ ( see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that ranolazine should not be used in patients with liver cirrhosis [ ( see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors , P - gp Inhibitors , Grapefruit Products • Advise patients to inform their physician if they are receiving drugs that are moderate CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Advise patients to inform their physician if they are receiving drugs that are P - gp inhibitors ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Advise patients to limit grapefruit juice or grapefruit products when taking ranolazine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
QT Interval Prolongation • Inform patients that ranolazine may produce changes in the electrocardiogram ( QTc interval prolongation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise patients to inform their physician of any personal or family history of QTc prolongation , congenital long QT syndrome , or if they are receiving drugs that prolong the QTc interval such as Class Ia ( e . g . , quinidine ) or Class III ( e . g . , dofetilide , sotalol , amiodarone ) antiarrhythmic agents , erythromycin , and certain antipsychotics ( e . g . , thioridazine , ziprasidone ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with severe renal impairment may be at risk of renal failure while on ranolazine .
Advise patients to inform their physician if they have impaired renal function before or while taking ranolazine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Dizziness , Fainting • Inform patients that ranolazine may cause dizziness and lightheadedness .
Patients should know how they react to ranolazine before they operate an automobile or machinery , or engage in activities requiring mental alertness or coordination [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise patients to contact their physician if they experience fainting spells while taking ranolazine .
Administration • Instruct patients to swallow ranolazine tablets whole , with or without meals , and not to crush , break , or chew tablets .
Inform patients that if a dose is missed , to take the usual dose at the next scheduled time .
The next dose should not be doubled .
Inform patients that doses of ranolazine tablets higher than 1000 mg twice daily should not be used [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients to inform their physician of any other medications taken concurrently with ranolazine tablets , including over - the - counter medications .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : November , 2021 Patient Information Ranolazine Extended - Release Tablets ( ra NOE la zeen ) Dosing Strengths : 500 mg tablets 1000 mg tablets Read this Patient Information before you start taking ranolazine extended - release tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Ranolazine extended - release tablet is a prescription medicine used to treat angina that keeps coming back ( chronic angina ) .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets may be used with other medicines that are used for heart problems and blood pressure control .
It is not known if ranolazine extended - release tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Do not take ranolazine extended - release tablets if : • you take any of the following medicines : o for fungus infection : ketoconazole ( Nizoral ® ) , itraconazole ( Sporanox ® , OnmelTM ) o for infection : clarithromycin ( Biaxin ® ) o for depression : nefazodone o for HIV : nelfinavir ( Viracept ® ) , ritonavir ( Norvir ® ) , lopinavir and ritonavir ( Kaletra ® ) , indinavir ( Crixivan ® ) , saquinavir ( Invirase ® ) o for tuberculosis ( TB ) : rifampin ( Rifadin ® ) , rifabutin ( Mycobutin ® ) , rifapentine ( Priftin ® ) o for seizures : phenobarbital , phenytoin ( Phenytek ® , Dilantin ® , Dilantin 125 ® ) , carbamazepine ( Tegretol ® ) o St . John ’ s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) • you have scarring ( cirrhosis ) of your liver What should I tell my doctor before taking ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Before you take ranolazine extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have or have a family history of a heart problem , called ‘ QT prolongation ’ or ‘ long QT syndrome ’ .
• have liver problems .
• have kidney problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ranolazine extended - release tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if ranolazine passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will breast - feed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including all prescription and non prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Ranolazine extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how ranolazine extended - release tablets works .
Tell your doctor if you take medicines : • for your heart • for cholesterol • for diabetes • for infection • for fungus • for transplant • for nausea and vomiting because of cancer treatments • for mental problems Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
• Take ranolazine extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Your doctor will tell you how much ranolazine extended - release tablets to take and when to take it .
• Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you to .
• Tell your doctor if you still have symptoms of angina after starting ranolazine extended - release tablets .
• Take ranolazine extended - release tablets by mouth , with or without food .
• Swallow the ranolazine extended - release tablets whole .
Do not crush , break , or chew ranolazine extended - release tablets before swallowing .
• If you miss a dose of ranolazine extended - release tablets , wait to take the next dose of ranolazine extended - release tablets at your regular time .
Do not make up for the missed dose .
Do not take more than 1 dose at a time .
• If you take too much ranolazine extended - release tablets , call your doctor , or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
• Grapefruit and grapefruit juice .
Limit products that have grapefruit in them . They can cause your blood levels of ranolazine extended - release tablets to increase .
• Ranolazine extended - release tablets can cause dizziness , lightheadedness , or fainting .
If you have these symptoms , do not drive a car , use machinery , or do anything that needs you to be alert .
What are the possible side effects of ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Ranolazine extended - release tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • changes in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation .
Your doctor may check the electrical activity of your heart with an ECG .
Tell your doctor right away if you feel faint , lightheaded , or feel your heart beating irregularly or fast while taking ranolazine extended - release tablets .
These may be symptoms related to QT prolongation .
• kidney failure in people who already have severe kidney problems .
Your doctor may need to do tests to check how your kidneys are working .
The most common side effects of ranolazine extended - release tablets include : • dizziness • headache • constipation • nausea Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of ranolazine extended - release tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Store ranolazine extended - release tablets at room temperature between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Keep ranolazine extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about ranolazine extended - release tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Patient Information .
Do not use ranolazine extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ranolazine extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
The Patient Information summarizes the most important information about ranolazine extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about ranolazine extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
What is chronic angina ?
Chronic angina means pain or discomfort in the chest , jaw , shoulder , back , or arm that keeps coming back .
There are other possible signs and symptoms of angina including shortness of breath .
Angina usually comes on when you are active or under stress .
Chronic angina is a symptom of a heart problem called coronary heart disease ( CHD ) , also known as coronary artery disease ( CAD ) .
When you have CHD , the blood vessels in your heart become stiff and narrow .
Oxygen - rich blood cannot reach your heart muscle easily .
Angina comes on when too little oxygen reaches your heart muscle .
What are the ingredients in ranolazine extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : ranolazine Inactive ingredients : 500 mg tablet : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , sodium hydroxide , talc and titanium dioxide .
1000 mg tablet : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , sodium hydroxide , talc and titanium dioxide .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administrations .
Manufactured by : Alkem Laboratories Ltd . , INDIA .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised : November , 2021 All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners .
PT2776 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 500 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 67877 - 525 - 60 60 tablets Ranolazine Extended Release Tablets 500 mg Swallow Ranolazine Extended Release Tablet whole ; do not crush , break , or chew .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1000 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 67877 - 526 - 60 60 tablets Ranolazine Extended Release Tablets 1000 mg Swallow Ranolazine Extended Release Tablet whole ; do not crush , break , or chew .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
