INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension USP , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP ( Chewable ) and other antibacterial drugs , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension USP , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP ( Chewable ) should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension USP , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP ( Chewable ) are combination penicillin - class antibacterials and beta - lactamase inhibitors indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below * : 1 . 1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections – caused by beta - lactamase – producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis .
1 . 2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media – caused by beta - lactamase – producing isolates of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
1 . 3 Sinusitis – caused by beta - lactamase – producing isolates of H . influenzae and M . catarrhalis .
1 . 4 Skin and Skin Structure Infections – caused by beta - lactamase – producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species .
1 . 5 Urinary Tract Infections – caused by beta - lactamase – producing isolates of E . coli , Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species .
1 . 6 Limitations of Use – When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin , USP , indicating no beta - lactamase production , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension USP , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets USP ( Chewable ) should not be used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION VIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION AT THE FDA SITE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 963e7bea - ff5d - 420 a - 9cb2 - e4aefb534b33 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( Chewable ) may be taken without regard to meals ; however , absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( Chewable ) are administered at the start of a meal .
To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( Chewable ) should be taken at the start of a meal .
2 . 1 Adults The usual adult dose is one 500 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet every 12 hours or one 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet every 8 hours .
For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract , the dose should be one 875 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet every 12 hours or one 500 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet every 8 hours .
Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the 125 mg / 31 . 25 mg per 5 mL or 250 mg / 62 . 5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg / 125 mg tablet .
The 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the 400 mg / 57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg / 125 mg tablet .
Two 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets should not be substituted for one 500 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet .
Since both the 250 mg / 125 mg and 500 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets contain the same amount of clavulanic acid ( 125 mg , as the potassium salt ) , two 250 mg / 125 mg tablets are not equivalent to one 500 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet .
The 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet and the 250 mg / 62 . 5 mg chewable tablet should not be substituted for each other , as they are not interchangeable .
The 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet and the 250 mg / 62 . 5 mg chewable tablet do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid ( as the potassium salt ) .
The 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid , whereas the 250 mg / 62 . 5 mg chewable tablet contains 62 . 5 mg of clavulanic acid .
2 . 2 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension should be dosed as follows : Neonates and Infants Aged < 12 Weeks ( < 3 Months ) : The recommended dose of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension is 30 mg / kg / day divided every 12 hours , based on the amoxicillin component .
Experience with the 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited , and thus , use of the 125 mg / 31 . 25 mg per 5 mL oral suspension is recommended .
Patients Aged 12 Weeks ( 3 Months ) and Older : See dosing regimens provided in Table 1 .
The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
However , the every 12 hour suspension ( 200 mg / 5 mL and 400 mg / 5 mL ) and chewable tablets ( 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg per 5 mL and 400 mg / 57 mg per 5 mL ) and chewable tablets ( 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg and 400 mg / 57 mg ) contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations .
The 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg , due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg / 125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( 250 / 125 ) versus the 250 mg / 62 . 5 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( Chewable ) ( 250 / 62 . 5 ) .
2 . 3 Patients With Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe .
Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of < 30 mL / min should not receive the 875 mg / 125 mg dose .
Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL / min should receive 500 mg / 125 mg or 250 mg / 125 mg every 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection .
Patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 10 mL / min should receive 500 mg / 125 mg or 250 mg / 125 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg / 125 mg or 250 mg / 125 mg every 24 hours , depending on severity of the infection .
They should receive an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis .
2 . 4 Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows : Tap bottle until all the powder flows freely .
Add approximately 2 / 3 of the total amount of water for reconstitution ( see Table 2 below ) and shake vigorously to suspend powder .
Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously .
Note : Shake oral suspension well before using .
Reconstituted suspension must be stored under refrigeration and discarded after 10 days .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis or Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) to amoxicillin , clavulanate or to other beta - lactam antibacterial drugs ( e . g . , penicillins and cephalosporins ) .
Cholestatic Jaundice / Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice / hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta - lactam antibacterials , including amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
Before initiating therapy with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) , careful inquiry should be made regarding previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , or other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Hepatic Dysfunction Hepatic dysfunction , including hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice has been associated with the use of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Hepatic toxicity is usually reversible ; however , deaths have been reported .
Hepatic function should be monitored at regular intervals in patients with hepatic impairment .
Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Skin Rash in Patients With Mononucleosis A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
Potential for Microbial Overgrowth The possibility of superinfections with fungal or bacterial pathogens should be considered during therapy .
If superinfection occurs , amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Phenylketonurics Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension contain aspartame which contains phenylalanine .
Each 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium contains 3 . 4 mg phenylalanine .
Each 400 mg / 57 mg chewable tablet contains 6 . 7 mg phenylalanine .
Each 5 mL of the 200 mg / 28 . 5 mg per 5 mL oral suspension contains 0 . 67 mg phenylalanine .
Each 5 mL of the 400 mg / 57 mg per 5 mL oral suspension contains 1 . 12 mg phenylalanine .
The other formulations of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium do not contain phenylalanine .
Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient , and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : Anaphylactic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Hepatic Dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] CDAD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea / loose stools ( 9 % ) , nausea ( 3 % ) , skin rashes and urticaria ( 3 % ) , vomiting ( 1 % ) and vaginitis ( 1 % ) .
Less than 3 % of patients discontinued therapy because of drug - related adverse reactions .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions , and in particular diarrhea , increased with the higher recommended dose .
Other less frequently reported adverse reactions ( < 1 % ) include : Abdominal discomfort , flatulence , and headache .
In pediatric patients ( aged 2 months to 12 years ) , 1 U . S . / Canadian clinical trial was conducted which compared 45 / 6 . 4 mg / kg / day ( divided every 12 hours ) of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium for 10 days versus 40 / 10 mg / kg / day ( divided every 8 hours ) of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium for 10 days in the treatment of acute otitis media .
A total of 575 patients were enrolled , and only the suspension formulations were used in this trial .
Overall , the adverse reactions seen were comparable to that noted above ; however , there were differences in the rates of diarrhea , skin rashes / urticaria , and diaper area rashes .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following have been identified during postmarketing use of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Gastrointestinal : Indigestion , gastritis , stomatitis , glossitis , black “ hairy ” tongue , mucocutaneous candidiasis , enterocolitis , and hemorrhagic / pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions : Pruritus , angioedema , serum sickness – like reactions ( urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis , arthralgia , myalgia , and frequently fever ) , erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , hypersensitivity vasculitis , and cases of exfoliative dermatitis ( including toxic epidermal necrolysis ) have been reported .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Liver : Hepatic dysfunction , including hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice , increases in serum transaminases ( AST and / or ALT ) , serum bilirubin , and / or alkaline phosphatase , has been reported with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
It has been reported more commonly in the elderly , in males , or in patients on prolonged treatment .
The histologic findings on liver biopsy have consisted of predominantly cholestatic , hepatocellular , or mixed cholestatic - hepatocellular changes .
The onset of signs / symptoms of hepatic dysfunction may occur during or several weeks after therapy has been discontinued .
The hepatic dysfunction , which may be severe , is usually reversible .
Deaths have been reported .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Renal : Interstitial nephritis , hematuria , and crystalluria have been reported .
[ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] Hemic and Lymphatic Systems : Anemia , including hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura , eosinophilia , leukopenia , and agranulocytosis have been reported .
These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena .
Thrombocytosis was noted in less than 1 % of the patients treated with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
There have been reports of increased prothrombin time in patients receiving amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium and anticoagulant therapy concomitantly .
[ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] Central Nervous System : Agitation , anxiety , behavioral changes , confusion , convulsions , dizziness , insomnia , and reversible hyperactivity have been reported .
Miscellaneous : Tooth discoloration ( brown , yellow , or gray staining ) has been reported .
Most reports occurred in pediatric patients .
Discoloration was reduced or eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid .
Concurrent use with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin .
Coadministration of probenecid is not recommended .
Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time ( increased international normalized ratio [ INR ] ) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants .
Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation .
Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone .
It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients .
Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium may affect intestinal flora , leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen / progesterone contraceptives .
Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false - positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict ’ s Solution , or Fehling ’ s Solution .
Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium , it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used .
Following administration of amoxicillin to pregnant women , a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol , estriol - glucuronide , conjugated estrone , and estradiol has been noted .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in pregnant rats and mice given amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium ( 2 : 1 ratio formulation of amoxicillin : clavulanate ) at oral doses up to 1200 mg / kg / day revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
The amoxicillin doses in rats and mice ( based on body surface area ) were approximately 4 and 2 times the maximum recommended adult human oral dose ( 875 mg / 125 mg every 12 hours ) .
For clavulanate , these dose multiples were approximately 9 and 4 times the maximum recommended adult human oral dose ( 125 mg every 8 hours ) .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Oral ampicillin - class antibiotics are poorly absorbed during labor .
It is not known whether use of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium in humans during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , prolongs the duration of labor , or increases the likelihood of the necessity for an obstetrical intervention .
Nursing Mothers Amoxicillin has been shown to be excreted in human milk .
Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium use by nursing mothers may lead to sensitization of infants .
Caution should be exercised when amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from studies of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets in adults with additional data from a study of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension in pediatric patients aged 2 months to 12 years with acute otitis media .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] Because of incompletely developed renal function in neonates and young infants , the elimination of amoxicillin may be delayed ; clavulanate elimination is unaltered in this age group .
Dosing of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) should be modified in pediatric patients aged < 12 weeks ( < 3 months ) .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] Geriatric Use Of the 3 , 119 patients in an analysis of clinical studies of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium , 32 % were ≥ 65 years old , and 14 % were ≥ 75 years old .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Dosing in Renal Impairment Amoxicillin is primarily eliminated by the kidney and dosage adjustment is usually required in patients with severe renal impairment ( GFR < 30 mL / min ) .
See Patients With Renal Impairment ( 2 . 3 ) for specific recommendations in patients with renal impairment .
OVERDOSAGE In case of overdosage , discontinue medication , treat symptomatically , and institute supportive measures as required .
A prospective study of 51 pediatric patients at a poison - control center suggested that overdosages of less than 250 mg / kg of amoxicillin are not associated with significant clinical symptoms1 .
Interstitial nephritis resulting in oliguric renal failure has been reported in patients after overdosage with amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Crystalluria , in some cases leading to renal failure , has also been reported after amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium overdosage in adult and pediatric patients .
In case of overdosage , adequate fluid intake and diuresis should be maintained to reduce the risk of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium crystalluria .
Renal impairment appears to be reversible with cessation of drug administration .
High blood levels may occur more readily in patients with impaired renal function because of decreased renal clearance of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium .
Amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium may be removed from circulation by hemodialysis .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] DESCRIPTION Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets , Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension , and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets ( Chewable ) are oral antibacterial combinations consisting of the semisynthetic antibiotic amoxicillin , USP and the beta - lactamase inhibitor , clavulanate potassium , USP ( the potassium salt of clavulanic acid ) .
Amoxicillin , USP is an analog of ampicillin , derived from the basic penicillin nucleus , 6 - aminopenicillanic acid .
Chemically , amoxicillin , USP is ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ ( R ) - ( - ) - 2 - Amino - 2 - ( p - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylic acid trihydrate .
Clavulanic acid is produced by the fermentation of Streptomyces clavuligerus .
It is a beta - lactam structurally related to the penicillins and possesses the ability to inactivate some beta - lactamases by blocking the active sites of these enzymes .
Chemically , clavulanate potassium , USP is potassium ( Z ) - ( 2 R , 5 R ) - 3 - ( 2 - hydroxyethylidene ) - 7 - oxo - 4 - oxa - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] - heptane - 2 - carboxylate VIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION AT THE FDA SITE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 963e7bea - ff5d - 420 a - 9cb2 - e4aefb534b33 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients Patients should be informed that amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) may be taken every 8 hours or every 12 hours , depending on the dose prescribed .
Each dose should be taken with a meal or snack to reduce the possibility of gastrointestinal upset .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Counsel patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials , and it usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken their last dose of the antibacterial .
If diarrhea is severe or lasts more than 2 or 3 days , patients should contact their physician .
Patients should be advised to keep suspension refrigerated .
Shake well before using .
When dosing a child with the suspension ( liquid ) of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium , use a dosing spoon or medicine dropper .
Be sure to rinse the spoon or dropper after each use .
Bottles of suspension of amoxicillin / clavulanate potassium may contain more liquid than required .
Follow your doctor ’ s instructions about the amount to use and the days of treatment your child requires .
Discard any unused medicine .
Patients should be aware that amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets , amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension , and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets ( chewable ) contain a penicillin class drug product that can cause allergic reactions in some individuals .
LABEL NDC : 51655 - 160 - 02 Amoxicillan & Clav / Potassium 875 / 125 MG 2 Tablets Lot : Exp : Rx Only Store at 20 C to 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Keep out the reach of children .
Dosage : See package insert Manufactured by : Teva Canada Ltd Manufacture Address : Toronto , Canada M1B 2K9 Manufacture NDC : 0093 - 2275 - 34 Mfg Lot : Distributed by Northwind Pharmacaeuticals Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
