Description Rx only For topical use only Not for ophthalmic use Umecta is a keratolytic , emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and skin Each gram of Umecta mousse contains urea ( 40 % ) , Butane , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea Butter ) Extract , Carbomer , Glycine Soya ( Soy Bean ) Sterol , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Isobutane , Laureth - 4 , Polysorbate - 20 , Propane , Purified Water , Stearic Acid , Triethanolamine .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas .
Urea also hydrates and gently dissolves the intercellular matrix of the nail plate which can result in the softening and eventual debridement of the nail plate .
Pharmacokinetics The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
Indications and Usage For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis , keratoderma , corns , and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
Contraindications Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
Umecta Mousse canister - contents under pressure do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120º F . Precautions This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Umecta .
It is also not known whether Umecta can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Umecta should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Monthers It is not known whether or not this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Umecta is administered to a nursing woman .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , itching , or irritation may occur and normally disappear on discontinuing the medication .
Dosage and Administration Apply Umecta PD bioadhesive emulsion / topical suspension or Umecta mousse to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed How Supplied Umecta ( urea , 40 % ) mousse is available in a : 4 oz .
can NDC 68712 - 020 - 01 Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Innocutis Holdings LLC Charleston , SC 29401 Toll Free : 1 - 800 - 499 - 4468 www . innocutis . com www . umecta . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
