DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces nursei .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin cream is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin cream for topical use , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units in an aqueous cream base containing aluminium hydroxide , ceteareth - 15 , polyethylene glycol monostearate , glycerol monostearate , propylene glycol , purified water , simethicone emulsion , non - crystallizing sorbitol solution , titanium dioxide , white petrolatum with methyl paraben and propyl paraben as preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with Nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Nystatin cream is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
This cream is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin cream is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Nystatin cream should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : • The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
• Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
LABORATORY TESTS If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or the effects on male or female fertility .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin cream .
It also is not known whether this cream can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin cream should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream USP is a yellow to light green cream .
It is supplied as : 15 gram Tube NDC 33342 - 469 - 15 30 gram Tube NDC 33342 - 469 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing .
Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufacturer : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Limited At Oxalis Labs Baddi , Himachal Pradesh , INDIA Rev . 08 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nystatin Cream USP , 100000 units per gram Pack Count : 15 gms Tube NDC : 33342 - 469 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Cream USP , 100000 units / gram Pack Count : 15 gms carton NDC : 33342 - 469 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Cream USP , 100000 units per gram Pack Count : 30 gms Tube NDC : 33342 - 469 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Cream USP , 100000 units / gram Pack Count : 30 gms carton NDC : 33342 - 469 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
