DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is a multiple dose anti - infective steroid combination in sterile suspension form for topical application .
The chemical structure for the active ingredient , dexamethasone , is : DEX STRUCTURE IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established Name : dexamethasone Chemical Name : pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
The other active ingredients are neomycin sulfate and polymyxin B sulfate .
Each mL contains : Actives : neomycin sulfate equivalent to neomycin 3 . 5 mg , polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units , dexamethasone 0 . 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 004 % .
Vehicle : hypromellose 2910 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , polysorbate 20 , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYCorticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow healing .
Since corticosteroids may inhibit the body ’ s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticosteroid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drugs are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE INDICATIONS AND USAGE For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists .
Ocular corticosteroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of corticosteroids use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical , radiation or thermal burns ; or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against : Serratia marcescens and streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva .
Mycobacterial infection of the eye .
Fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication .
( Hypersensitivity to the antibiotic component occurs at a higher rate than for other components . )
WARNINGS WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION .
Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
Prolonged use may result in glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical corticosteroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , corticosteroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Products containing neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex requires great caution .
PRECAUTIONS PRECAUTIONS The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 mL should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as a slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged corticosteroid dosing .
PregnancyPregnancy Category C . Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing MothersSystemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component , the anti - infective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the corticosteroid component are : elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Secondary Infection : The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of corticosteroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used .
Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One to two drops topically in the conjunctival sac ( s ) .
In severe disease , drops may be used hourly , being tapered to discontinuation as the inflammation subsides .
In mild disease , drops may be used up to four to six times daily .
Not more than 20 mL should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
HOW SUPPLIED HOW SUPPLIED Sterile ophthalmic suspension in 5 mL plastic DROP - TAINER * dispenser ( NDC 61314 - 630 - 06 ) .
STORAGE : Store at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
Rx Only * DROP - TAINER is a registered trademark of Alcon Manufacturing , Ltd .
FALCON LOGO IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dist .
by : FALCON Pharmaceuticals , Ltd .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Mfd by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Printed in USA 340905 - 0803 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL NEO POLYB DEX LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
