1 . 1 Heart Failure Spironolactone tablets are indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III – IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival , manage edema , and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure .
Spironolactone tablets are usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies .
1 . 2 Hypertension Spironolactone tablets are indicated as add - on therapy for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure in patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
1 . 3 Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis or Nephrotic Syndrome Spironolactone tablets are indicated for the management of edema in the following settings : Cirrhosis of the liver when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction .
Nephrotic syndrome when treatment of the underlying disease , restriction of fluid and sodium intake , and the use of other diuretics produce an inadequate response .
Because it increases serum potassium , spironolactone tablets may be useful for treating edema when administration of other diuretics has caused hypokalemia .
1 . 4 Primary Hyperaldosteronism Spironolactone tablets are indicated in the following settings : Short - term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism .
Long - term maintenance therapy for patients with discrete aldosterone - producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery .
Long - term maintenance therapy for patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia ( idiopathic hyperaldosteronism ) .
Spironolactone tablets USP 25 mg are light yellow to yellow colored , round , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AD ” on one side and plain on the other side having faint odour of peppermint .
Spironolactone tablets USP 50 mg are light orange to orange colored , oval , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AE ” on one side and breakline on the other side having faint odour of peppermint .
Spironolactone tablets USP 100 mg are light peach to peach colored , round , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AF ” on one side and breakline on the other side having faint odour of peppermint .
Spironolactone tablets are contraindicated in the patients with : Hyperkalemia Addison ' s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone oral tablets USP , for oral administration contain 25 mg , 50 mg , or 100 mg of the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone , 17 - hydroxy - 7α - mercapto - 3 - oxo - 17α - pregn - 4 - ene - 21 - carboxylic acid γ - lactone acetate , which has the following structural formula : Chemical Structure Spironolactone is practically insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and freely soluble in benzene and in chloroform .
Inactive ingredients include lactose monohydrate , dibasic calcium phosphate , povidone , peppermint oil , purified talc , pregelatinised starch , colloidal anhydrous silica , magnesium stearate , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol 400 , titanium dioxide and iron oxide yellow .
In addition iron oxide red ( 50 mg and 100 mg tablets ) is included in the film coating of specific strengths .
Spironolactone tablets USP 25 mg tablets are Light yellow to yellow colored , round , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AD ” on one side and plain on the other side having faint odour of peppermint , supplied as : NDC Number Size 16729 - 225 - 01 bottle of 100 with a child - resistant closure 16729 - 225 - 16 bottle of 500 16729 - 225 - 17 bottle of 1 , 000 16729 - 225 - 19 bottle of 2 , 500 Spironolactone tablets USP 50 mg tablets are Light orange to orange colored , oval , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AE ” on one side and breakline on the other side having faint odour of peppermint , supplied as : NDC Number Size 16729 - 226 - 01 bottle of 100 with a child - resistant closure 16729 - 226 - 16 bottle of 500 Spironolactone tablets USP 100 mg tablets are Light peach to peach colored , round , biconvex , film coated tablets with inscription “ AF ” on one side and breakline on the other side having faint odour of peppermint , supplied as : NDC Number Size 16729 - 227 - 01 bottle of 100 with a child - resistant closure 16729 - 227 - 16 bottle of 500 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect from light .
Dispense in tight , Light - resistant containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
