Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 4 % Purpose External analgesic Use For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of the muscles and joints associated with • arthritis • simple backache • sprains • strains • bruises Warnings Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame For external use only .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse with water to remove • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• store at room temperature .
Inactive ingredients Calcium Gluconate , Camphor ( Cinnamomum camphora ) Oil ( 0 . 5 % ) , Cetearyl Glucoside , Cetyl Alcohol , Glucono delta - lactone , Hemp ( Cannabis sativa ) Extract , Organic Aloe Vera Leaf Juice ( 0 . 02 % ) , Organic Glycerin ( 3 % ) , Organic Lavender ( Lavandula angustifolia ) Oil ( 0 . 1 % ) , Organic Olive ( Olea europaea ) Oil ( 10 % ) , Organic Peppermint ( Mentha piperita ) Oil ( 0 . 1 % ) , Organic Rosemary ( Rosmarinus officinalis ) Oil ( 0 . 1 % ) , Organic Sweet Marjoram ( Origanum majorana ) Oil ( 0 . 1 % ) , Organic Wintergreen ( Gaultheria procumbens ) Oil ( 0 . 1 % ) , Potassium Sorbate , Safflower ( Carthamus tinctorius ) Oleosomes Extract , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Sorbitan Olivate , Tocopherol , Water ( Aqua ) , Xanthan Gum .
Questions ?
+ 1 - 833 - 569 - 7223 You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
Mon - Fri : 9 AM to 5 PM 4 % Cooling Menthol for Pain Relief Cool Menthol Includes Hemp Extract , Rosemary & Lavender Oil BROAD SPECTRUM NON GMO 0 . 0 % THC USA HEMP PREMIUM GRADE Joy ' s cooling Menthol Pain Relieving Cream combines premium ingredients with efficacious amounts of Menthol to reduce pain and alleviate muscle and joint aches .
This unique formula with Menthol also includes 400 mg of CBD oil and a variety of other natural ingredients including , olive oil , rosemary oil , and lavender oils for soothing and powerful results .
OUR PROCESS Each ingredient in this formula is meticulously sourced for both purity and quality .
LAB RESULTS Every batch of our products is rigorously tested by an ISO - certified lab for heavy metals , pesticides , molds , CBD and THC .
Manufactured for Joy Organics , LLC 5042 Technology Pkwy .
Suite 500 , Fort Collins , CO 80528 JoyOrganics . com Scan QR code or visit JoyOrganics . com / labs to view the lab results .
Live your BEST LIFE Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
