1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ExEm ® Foam is indicated for sonohysterosalpingography to assess fallopian tube patency in women with known or suspected infertility .
ExEm ® Foam is an ultrasound contrast agent indicated for sonohysterosalpingography to assess fallopian tube patency in women with known or suspected infertility .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Confirm the patient is not pregnant prior to ExEm Foam administrations ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dose is 2 mL to 3 mL of ExEm Foam by intrauterine infusion using a 5 - Fr or larger catheter .
Dose may be repeated in 2 mL to 3 mL increments , as needed , to achieve visualization of the fallopian tubes .
Maximum total dose is 10 mL ( 2 . 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for preparation and administration instructions .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Pre - Administration Information To ensure that the patient is not pregnant prior to ExEm Foam administration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] : • Confirm that the patient has a negative pregnancy test within the 24 hours before ExEm Foam administration .
• Confirm the patient is in the pre - ovulatory phase of her menstrual cycle ( cycle days 6 through 11 ) .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage • The recommended initial dose of ExEm Foam is 2 mL to 3 mL by intrauterine infusion using a 5 - Fr or larger catheter with luer connection .
• The dose may be repeated in increments of 2 mL to 3 mL , as needed , to achieve visualization of the fallopian tubes .
• Maximum total dose is 10 mL .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration The ExEm Foam kit includes the following components : • Syringe A containing 5 mL clear Gel [ polymer type A ( hydroxyethyl cellulose ) , glycerin and purified water ] • Syringe B containing 5 mL Sterile Purified Water • Combifix Adapter ( coupling device ) Preparation • Examine the package and do not use if package has been previously opened or damaged .
• Ensure the kit is at room temperature .
• Handle products following aseptic practices ( e . g . sterile gloves ) .
• Generate foam by mixing Syringe A ( Gel ) with Syringe B ( Sterile Purified Water ) included in the package as described in Figure 1 .
• Infuse foam within 5 minutes of reconstitution .
FIGURE 1 : Reconstitution of ExEm Foam • Unscrew and discard the caps from each syringe when ready to prepare the foam .
• Push and screw Syringe A to one end of the Combifix Adapter .
• Push and screw Syringe B to the other end of the Combifix Adapter .
• Make sure these syringes are attached tightly to avoid loss of liquid when mixing .
• Push the plunger of one syringe vigorously to transfer , and begin mixing the contents from one syringe to the other syringe .
Repeat this process at least 10 times .
• The reconstituted foam is completely milky white ( opaque ) in color • After mixing , transfer all of the foam into one syringe , then disconnect the adapter and other syringe .
• Approximately 10 mL of ExEm Foam is created by mixing Syringe A of clear Gel with Syringe B of Sterile Purified Water .
• Infuse within 5 minutes of mixing to ensure adequate imaging .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Administration • Administer through a 5 - Fr or larger catheter with luer connection only .
If there is resistance when infusing foam use a larger catheter .
Do not infuse forcefully .
• Infuse 1 mL of foam to confirm proper placement of the catheter tip in the cervix and access to the uterine cavity .
• Slowly infuse 2 mL to 3 mL of the foam at a time to avoid patient discomfort .
• Discard unused portion after use .
2 . 4 Imaging Guidance Conduct transvaginal ultrasound imaging in accordance with ultrasound manufacturer recommendations .
ExEm Foam in the fallopian tube will appear as an echogenic line along the length of the tube on the image .
A fallopian tube is classified as patent if ExEm Foam is observed to pass from the tube and spill into the peritoneal cavity .
The tube will appear as a thin , bright line .
A fallopian tube is classified as occluded if ExEm Foam is not observed to pass from the tube and spill into the peritoneal cavity .
As secondary findings , ( 1 ) there may be no bright line due to no flow into the fallopian tube , or ( 2 ) the tubal lumen may appear distended and contrast ﬂow might be observed only in the intramural or isthmic part of the tube .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Intrauterine Foam , single - dose kit containing : • Syringe A : one syringe with 5 mL clear Gel [ polymer - type A ( hydoxyethyl cellulose ) , glycerin and purified water ] • Syringe B : one syringe with 5 mL Sterile Purified Water • One Combifix Adaptor ( coupling device ) When prepared as directed ExEm Foam will contain between 10 , 000 to 127 , 000 bubbles per mL .
Intrauterine Foam , single - dose kit containing : • one syringe with 5 mL clear Gel [ polymer type A ( hydroxyethyl cellulose ) , glycerin and purified water ] • one syringe with 5 mL Sterile Purified Water • one Combifix ® Adaptor ( coupling device ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ExEm Foam is contraindicated for use in : • Pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients with known or suspected lower genital tract inflammation or infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Patients who have had a gynecologic procedure within the last 30 days [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Patients with vaginal bleeding • Due to the risk of intravasation of ExEm Foam as a result of exposure of the endometrial vessels during bleeding , and • Due to the potential risk of endometriosis as a result of seeding the peritoneum with endometrial tissue .
• Patients with known or suspected reproductive tract neoplasia due to the risk of peritoneal spread of neoplasm .
• ExEm Foam is contraindicated in : • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Patients with known or suspected lower genital tract inflammation or infection ( 4 ) • Patients who have had a gynecologic procedure within the last 30 days ( 4 ) • Patients with vaginal bleeding ( 4 ) • Patient with known or suspected reproductive tract neoplasia .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk for fetal harm : Confirm that the patient has a negative pregnancy test within the 24 hours before ExEm Foam administration and confirm that the patient is in the pre - ovulatory phase of her menstrual cycle ( cycle days 6 through 11 ) .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Risk for Post - Procedure Gynecologic Infections : Do not use in contraindicated situations even if the patient is receiving antimicrobial therapy .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk for Fetal Harm ExEm Foam is contraindicated for use in pregnancy due to the potential risk of fetal harm from an intrauterine procedure .
To ensure that the patient is not pregnant prior to ExEm Foam administration , confirm that the patient has a negative pregnancy test within the 24 hours before ExEm Foam administration and confirm that the patient is in the pre - ovulatory phase of her menstrual cycle ( cycle days 6 through 11 ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Risk for Post - Procedure Gynecologic Infections There is a risk of post - procedure gynecological infections when ExEm Foam is used in sonohysterosalpingography .
ExEm Foam is contraindicated for use in patients with known or suspected genital tract inflammation or infections ( e . g . including pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) or suspected sexually transmitted disease ) even if the patient is receiving antimicrobial therapy .
ExEm Foam is contraindicated in patients who have had a gynecologic procedure within the past 30 days ( e . g . curettage or conization ) due to the risk of post - procedure infections [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions are : pelvic and abdominal pain ; vasovagal reactions and associated symptoms such as nausea and faintness ; and post - procedure spotting .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ExEm Foam Inc . at 1 - 844 - 963 - EXEM ( 1 - 844 - 963 - 3936 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The common adverse reactions associated with ExEm Foam when used as indicated in sonohysterosalpingography are : pelvic and abdominal pain ; vasovagal reactions and associated symptoms such as nausea and faintness ; and post - procedure spotting .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ( air polymer - type A ) intrauterine foam outside of the United States .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gynecologic Infections : pelvic inflammatory disease , salpingitis , and tubo - ovarian abscess 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary ExEm Foam is contraindicated for use in pregnancy due to the potential risk to the fetus from an intrauterine procedure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on the use of ExEm Foam in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with ExEm Foam .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of the components used to generate ExEm Foam ( glycerin and hydroxyethyl cellulose ) in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
No adverse effects in breastfed infants are anticipated following maternal administration of ExEm Foam , based on the wide safety margin for glycerol in infants and the expected negligible absorption of hydroxyethyl cellulose [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ExEm Foam and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ExEm Foam or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Confirm that the patient has a negative pregnancy test within the 24 hours before ExEm Foam administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ExEm Foam have not been established in pediatric patients .
11 DESCRIPTION ExEm Foam ( air polymer - type A ) intrauterine foam , is an ultrasound contrast agent .
It is provided to the user for preparation as a single - dose kit containing : • 5 mL sterile clear Gel [ polymer - type A ( 80 . 97 mg hydroxyethyl cellulose ) , 434 . 80 mg glycerin 85 % , and purified water ] ; with a pH of 6 to 7 . 5 .
• 5 mL Sterile Purified Water ; with a pH of 6 to 7 . 5 .
After preparation , ExEm Foam is a milky - white , water - soluble intrauterine foam with an osmolality of approximately 462 mOsm and will contain between 10 , 000 to 127 , 000 bubbles per mL with a median size of 45 . 6 to 60 . 6 micrometers ( for bubbles between 20 to 200 micrometers ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ExEm Foam ( air polymer - type A ) intrauterine foam is formed by mixing the clear Gel [ polymer - type A ( hydroxyethyl cellulose ) , glycerin , and purified water ] with air and Sterile Purified Water , creating an echogenic contrast agent .
When visualized with ultrasound , the foam appears echogenic or bright within the fallopian tubes and peritoneal cavity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics ExEm Foam has no known pharmacological activity .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Assuming that a full 10 mL of ExEm Foam is used , and all glycerol is absorbed , the normal fasting endogenous glycerol plasma levels would not be affected .
No literature data is found on absorption of hydroxyethyl cellulose ( HEC ) from the female reproductive tract and peritoneum .
HEC is poorly permeable across GI epithelial mucosa ; therefore , HEC is expected to exhibit very low permeability after administration and to produce negligible HEC systemic exposure .
The metabolism and excretion of HEC are not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY No nonclinical toxicology studies have been conducted with ExEm Foam .
Glycerol - hydroxyethyl cellulose ( HEC ) Gel is not genotoxic ( Ames test ) or cytotoxic ( mouse lymphoma L5178Y TK + / - assay ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical studies reported in the scientific literature have assessed the performance of sonohysterosalpingography with ExEm Foam ( a technique referred to as HyFoSy ) for the diagnosis of tubal patency in women with infertility .
The studies used laparoscopy with chromotubation as the reference standard .
Study A compared 2 D - and 3 D - HyFoSy to previous laparoscopy with chromotubation in 50 women ( median age 35 years ) with at least 12 months of infertility ( median duration of infertility 28 months ) .
The women were randomly assigned to either HyFoSy with 2 D imaging or HyFoSy with 3 D imaging .
The operator performing HyFoSy was blinded to the laparoscopy results .
For 2 D imaging , the proportion of fallopian tubes correctly identified as occluded was 80 % and the proportion of tubes that were correctly identified as patent was 92 % .
For 3 D imaging , the proportion of tubes correctly identified as occluded was 98 % and the proportion of tubes that were correctly identified as patent was 91 % .
Study B compared the diagnostic performance of HyFoSy with ExEm Foam using both 2 D / 3 D - sonohysterosalpingography ( 2 D / 3 D - HyFoSy ) and 2 D / 3 D - HyFoSy with high - definition flow Doppler enhancement ( 2 D / 3 D - HDF - HyFoSy ) , to the reference standard of laparoscopy with chromotubation to establish the patency of the tubes .
The study evaluated 132 women ( 259 fallopian tubes ) with history of primary or secondary infertility who were consecutively enrolled over a period of 2 years .
The mean age was 32 years and the mean duration of infertility was 2 . 6 years .
The performance of 2 D / 3 D - HyFoSy was similar to that of 2 D / 3 D - HDF - HyFoSy .
The performance estimates in Study B were numerically similar to those reported in Study A . 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Supplied ExEm Foam is supplied as a single - dose kit , NDC 73254 - 310 - 01 .
Each kit contains : • Syringe A : One sterile syringe containing 5 mL of clear Gel [ polymer - type A ( hydroxyethyl cellulose ) , glycerin and purified water • Syringe B : One sterile syringe containing 5 mL of Sterile Purified Water • One sterile Combifix Adaptor ( coupling device ) Storage and Handling Store the kit and components at controlled room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; excursions permitted at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Do not store in refrigerator .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Risk for Post - Procedure Gynecologic Infections Patients should be counseled regarding the risk of post - procedure gynecologic infections .
Instruct patients to report to their healthcare provider any continued pelvic and abdominal pain , significant vaginal discharge and / or fever post - procedure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Abdominal and Pelvic Pain Inform patients of the potential for transient abdominal and pelvic pain during and after ExEm Foam sonohysterosalpingography [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Manufactured for and Distrbuted By : ExEm Foam Inc .
424 Church St . , Suite 2000 , Room 2044 Nashville , TN 37219 ExEm ® is a registered trademark of GISKIT PHARMA B . V . Revised : 4 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
