FOR INTRA - ARTERIAL INFUSION ONLY Rx only WARNING It is recommended that floxuridine be given only by or under the supervision of a qualified physician who is experienced in cancer chemotherapy and intra - arterial drug therapy and is well versed in the use of potent antimetabolites .
Because of the possibility of severe toxic reactions , all patients should be hospitalized for initiation of the first course of therapy .
DESCRIPTION Floxuridine for Injection , USP , an antineoplastic antimetabolite , is available as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , lyophilized powder for reconstitution .
Each vial contains 500 mg of floxuridine which is to be reconstituted with 5 mL of sterile water for injection .
An appropriate amount of reconstituted solution is then diluted with a parenteral solution for intra - arterial infusion ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Floxuridine is a fluorinated pyrimidine .
Chemically , floxuridine is 2 ' - Deoxy - 5 - fluorouridine , with a molecular formula of C9H11FN2O5 .
It is a white to off - white odorless solid which is freely soluble in water .
The 2 % aqueous solution has a pH of between 4 . 0 and 5 . 5 .
The molecular weight of floxuridine is 246 . 20 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When floxuridine is given by rapid intra - arterial injection it is apparently rapidly catabolized to 5 - fluorouracil .
Thus , rapid injection of floxuridine produces the same toxic and antimetabolic effects as does 5 - fluorouracil .
The primary effect is to interfere with the synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) and to a lesser extent inhibit the formation of ribonucleic acid ( RNA ) .
However , when floxuridine is given by continuous intra - arterial infusion its direct anabolism to floxuridine - monophosphate is enhanced , thus increasing the inhibition of DNA .
Floxuridine is metabolized in the liver .
The drug is excreted intact and as urea , fluorouracil , a - fluoro - b - ureidopropionic acid , dihydrofluorouracil , a - fluoro - b - guanidopropionic acid and a - fluoro - b - alanine in the urine ; it is also expired as respiratory carbon dioxide .
Pharmacokinetic data on intra - arterial infusion of floxuridine are not available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Floxuridine for Injection , USP is effective in the palliative management of gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma metastatic to the liver , when given by continuous regional intra - arterial infusion in carefully selected patients who are considered incurable by surgery or other means .
Patients with known disease extending beyond an area capable of infusion via a single artery should , except in unusual circumstances , be considered for systemic therapy with other chemotherapeutic agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Floxuridine therapy is contraindicated for patients in a poor nutritional state , those with depressed bone marrow function or those with potentially serious infections .
WARNINGS BECAUSE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SEVERE TOXIC REACTIONS , ALL PATIENTS SHOULD BE HOSPITALIZED FOR THE FIRST COURSE OF THERAPY .
Floxuridine should be used with extreme caution in poor risk patients with impaired hepatic or renal function or a history of high - dose pelvic irradiation or previous use of alkylating agents .
The drug is not intended as an adjuvant to surgery .
Floxuridine may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
It has been shown to be teratogenic in the chick embryo , mouse ( at doses of 2 . 5 to 100 mg / kg ) and rat ( at doses of 75 to 150 mg / kg ) .
Malformations included cleft palates ; skeletal defects ; and deformed appendages , paws and tails .
The dosages which were teratogenic in animals are 4 . 2 to 125 times the recommended human therapeutic dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with floxuridine in pregnant women .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking ( receiving ) this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Combination Therapy Any form of therapy which adds to the stress of the patient , interferes with nutrition or depresses bone marrow function will increase the toxicity of floxuridine .
PRECAUTIONS General Floxuridine is a highly toxic drug with a narrow margin of safety .
Therefore , patients should be carefully supervised since therapeutic response is unlikely to occur without some evidence of toxicity .
Severe hematological toxicity , gastrointestinal hemorrhage and even death may result from the use of floxuridine despite meticulous selection of patients and careful adjustment of dosage .
Although severe toxicity is more likely in poor risk patients , fatalities may be encountered occasionally even in patients in relatively good condition .
Therapy is to be discontinued promptly whenever one of the following signs of toxicity appears : • Myocardial ischemia • Stomatitis or esophagopharyngitis , at the first visible sign • Leukopenia ( WBC under 3500 ) or a rapidly falling white blood count • Vomiting , intractable • Diarrhea , frequent bowel movements or watery stools • Gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding • Thrombocytopenia ( platelets under 100 , 000 ) • Hemorrhage from any site Information for Patients Patients should be informed of expected toxic effects , particularly oral manifestations .
Patients should be alerted to the possibility of alopecia as a result of therapy and should be informed that it is usually a transient effect .
Laboratory Tests Careful monitoring of the white blood count and platelet count is recommended .
Drug Interactions See WARNINGS section .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of floxuridine have not been conducted .
On the basis of the available data , no evaluation can be made of the carcinogenic risk of floxuridine to humans .
Mutagenesis Oncogenic transformation of fibroblasts from mouse embryo has been induced in vitro by floxuridine , but the relationship between oncogenicity and mutagenicity is not clear .
Floxuridine has also been shown to be mutagenic in human leukocytes in vitro and in the Drosophila test system .
In addition , 5 - fluorouracil , to which floxuridine is catabolized when given by intra - arterial injection , has been shown to be mutagenic in in vitro tests .
Impairment of Fertility The effects of floxuridine on fertility and general reproductive performance have not been studied in animals .
However , because floxuridine is catabolized to 5 - fluorouracil , it should be noted the 5 - fluorouracil has been shown to induce chromosomal aberrations and changes in chromosome organization of spermatogonia in rats at doses of 125 or 250 mg / kg , administered intraperitoneally .
Spermatogonial differentiation was also inhibited by fluorouracil , resulting in transient infertility .
In female rats , fluorouracil , administered intraperitoneally at doses of 25 or 50 mg / kg during the preovulatory phase of oogenesis , significantly reduced the incidence of fertile matings , delayed the development of pre - and post - implantation embryos , increased the incidence of preimplantation lethality and induced chromosomal anomalies in these embryos .
Compounds such as floxuridine , which interfere with DNA , RNA and protein synthesis , might be expected to have adverse effects on gametogenesis .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category D See WARNINGS section .
Floxuridine has been shown to be teratogenic in the chick embryo , mouse ( at doses of 2 . 5 to 100 mg / kg ) and rat ( at doses of 75 to 150 mg / kg ) .
Malformations included cleft palates , skeletal defects and deformed appendages , paws and tails .
The dosages which were teratogenic in animals were 4 . 2 to 125 times the recommended human therapeutic dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with floxuridine in pregnant women .
While there is no evidence of teratogenicity in humans due to floxuridine , it should be kept in mind that other drugs which inhibit DNA synthesis ( e . g . , methotrexate and aminopterin ) have been reported to be teratogenic in humans .
Floxuridine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Floxuridine has not been studied in animals for its effects on peri - and postnatal development .
However , compounds which inhibit DNA , RNA and protein synthesis might be expected to have adverse effects on peri - and postnatal development .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether floxuridine is excreted in human milk .
Because floxuridine inhibits DNA and RNA synthesis , mothers should not nurse while receiving this drug .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to the arterial infusion of floxuridine are generally related to the procedural complications of regional arterial infusion .
The more common adverse reactions to the drug are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , enteritis , stomatitis and localized erythema .
The more common laboratory abnormalities are anemia , leukopenia , thrombo - cytopenia and elevations of alkaline phosphatase , serum transaminase , serum bilirubin and lactic dehydrogenase .
Other adverse reactions are : Gastrointestinal : duodenal ulcer , duodenitis , gastritis , bleeding , gastroenteritis , glossitis , pharyngitis , anorexia , cramps , abdominal pain ; possible intra - and extrahepatic biliary sclerosis , as well as acalculous cholecystitis .
Dermatologic : alopecia , dermatitis , nonspecific skin toxicity , rash .
Cardiovascular : myocardial ischemia .
Miscellaneous Clinical Reactions : fever , lethargy , malaise , weakness .
Laboratory Abnormalities : BSP , prothrombin , total proteins , sedimentation rate and thrombopenia .
Procedural Complications of Regional Arterial Infusion : arterial aneurysm ; arterial ischemia ; arterial thrombosis ; embolism ; fibromyositis ; thrombophlebitis ; hepatic necrosis ; abscesses ; infection at catheter site ; bleeding at catheter site ; catheter blocked , displaced or leaking .
The following adverse reactions have not been reported with floxuridine but have been noted following the administration of 5 - fluorouracil .
While the possibility of these occurring following floxuridine therapy is remote because of its regional administration , one should be alert for these reactions following the administration of floxuridine because of the pharmacological similarity of these two drugs : pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , myocardial ischemia , angina , anaphylaxis , generalized allergic reactions , acute cerebellar syndrome , nystagmus , headache , dry skin , fissuring , photosensitivity , pruritic maculopapular rash , increased pigmentation of the skin , vein pigmentation , lacrimal duct stenosis , visual changes , lacrimation , photophobia , disorientation , confusion , euphoria , epistaxis and nail changes , including loss of nails .
OVERDOSAGE The possibility of overdosage with floxuridine is unlikely in view of the mode of administration .
Nevertheless , the anticipated manifestations would be nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding , bone marrow depression ( including thrombocytopenia , leukopenia and agranulocytosis ) .
No specific antidotal therapy exists .
Patients who have been exposed to an overdosage of floxuridine should be monitored hematologically for at least 4 weeks .
Should abnormalities appear , appropriate therapy should be utilized .
The acute intravenous toxicity of floxuridine is as follows : LD50 Species ( mg / kg ± S . E . ) Mouse 880 ± 51 Rat 670 ± 73 Rabbit 94 ± 19 . 6 Dog 157 ± 46 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Each vial must be reconstituted with 5 mL of sterile water for injection to yield a solution containing approximately 100 mg of floxuridine / mL .
The calculated daily dose ( s ) of the drug is then diluted with 5 % dextrose or 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection to a volume appropriate for the infusion apparatus to be used .
The administration of floxuridine is best achieved with the use of an appropriate pump to overcome pressure in large arteries and to ensure a uniform rate of infusion .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
The recommended therapeutic dosage schedule of floxuridine by continuous arterial infusion is 0 . 1 to 0 . 6 mg / kg / day .
The higher dosage ranges ( 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg ) are usually employed for hepatic artery infusion because the liver metabolizes the drug , thus reducing the potential for systemic toxicity .
Therapy can be given until adverse reactions appear .
( See PRECAUTIONS section . )
When these side effects have subsided , therapy may be resumed .
The patient should be maintained on therapy as long as response to floxuridine continues .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
HOW SUPPLIED Floxuridine for Injection , USP , 500 mg , lyophilized , in a 5 mL vial , is supplied in individual cartons .
NDC 81643 - 9270 - 1 .
This is to be reconstituted with 5 mL sterile water for injection .
The sterile powder should be stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Reconstituted vials should be stored under refrigeration 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) for not more than 2 weeks .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
REFERENCES • 1 .
Recommendations for the safe handling of parenteral antineoplastic drugs .
Washington , DC , US Government Printing Office , NIH publication 83 - 2621 .
• 2 .
AMA Council Report .
Guidelines for handling parenteral antineoplastics .
JAMA .
Mar 15 , 1985 , 253 : 1590 - 1592 .
• 3 .
National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure : Recommendation for handling cytotoxic agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , ScD , Director of Pharmacy Services , Rhode Island Hospital , 593 Eddy Street , Providence , Rhode Island 02902 .
• 4 .
Clinical Oncological Society of Australia : Guidelines and recommendations for safe handling of antineoplastic agents .
Med J Aust .
Apr 30 , 1983 , 1 : 426 - 428 .
• 5 .
Jones , RB , Frank R , Mass T : Safe handling of chemotherapeutic agents : a report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA .
Sept - Oct , 1983 , 33 : 258 - 263 .
• 6 .
American Society of Hospital Pharmacists Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
AM J Hosp Pharm 1990 : 47 : 1033 - 1049 .
• 7 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA WORK - PRACTICE GUIDELINES ) .
AM J Health - Syst Pharm .
1996 : 523 : 1669 - 1685 Distributed by Cerona Therapeutics , Inc .
Wellesley , MA 02481 USA Manufactured by THYMOORGAN PHARMAZIE GmbH , Schiffgraben 23 , 38690 Goslar , Germany Revised January 2022 127 . 207 . 046 / 00 VIAL LABEL NDC 81643 - 9270 - 1 Rx only Floxuridine for Injection , USP 500 mg per vial FOR INTRA - ARTERIAL USE ONLY 5 mL Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
