RX Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY DERMESSE BALANCER contains : Hydroquinone 40 mg / gm .
See label on bottle for complete list of ingredients .
Following is its chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic hydroquinone .
oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
The selective inhibition of the enzyme affects melanogenesis in the melanocytes resulting in cessation of melanin formation and subsequent reduction in pigmentation .
Additional studies indicate Hydroquinone acts on the essential subcellular metabolic processes of melanocytes with resultant cytolysis , i . e . nonenzymediated depigmentation .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause regimentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunblocking agents .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE DERMESSE BALANCER is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chlosma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
The safety of topical Hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS • CAUTION : Hydroquinone is a skin bleaching agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
• Test for skin sensitivity before using Hydroquinone Cream by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching and vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Contact with the eyes should be avoided .
In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse eyes thoroughly with water and contact physician .
A bitter taste and anesthetic effect may occur if applied to lips .
Keep out of reach of children .
If no bleaching or lightening effect is noted after 2 months of treatment use , Hydroquinone Creamshould be discontinued .
This productis formulated for use as a skin bleaching agent and should not be used for the prevention of sunburn .
• Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of Hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
After clearing and during maintenance therapy , sun exposure should be avoided on bleached skin by application of a sunscreen or sunblock agent , or protective clothing to prevent repigmentation .
There are no sunblocking or sunscreening agents in DERMESSE BALANCER and since minimal sunlight exposure may reverse the bleaching effect of this preparation .
It should be used only at night or on areas of the body covered by protective clothing .
During the daytime , sunblocking or broad spectrum sunscreen preparations or protective clothing should be used to prevent the bleached areas from repigmentation .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Warning : Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause serious allergic type reactions ( e . g . , hives , itching , wheezing , anaphylaxis , severe asthma attack ) in certain susceptible persons .
PRECAUTIONS See Warnings A . Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical Hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether Hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical Hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical Hydroquinone should be used in women only when clearly indicated .
B . Nursing mothers It is not known whether topical Hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical Hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
C . Pediatric usage Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic reactions have been reported .
Occasional cutaneous hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical Hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
DRUG DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION A thin application of DERMESSE BALANCER should be applied to the affected area twice daily or as directed by a physician .
Consult product label for instructions on whether to rub in or not .
There is no recommendation for children under the age of 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED DERMESSE BALANCER is available as follows : 2 Oz .
( 57 g ) bottle DERMESSE BALANCER should be stored at controlled room temperature ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Darkening of this product is normal .
This will not affect performance or safety .
Distributed By Axia Medical Solutions Carlsbad , California 92011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
