Active Ingredient Acetaminophen 325 mg Purpose Pain reliever / Fever reducer Keep out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for chidren even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Uses Temporary relieves minor aches and pains due to : the common cold , headache , toothache , muscular aches , backache , minor pain of arthritis , premenstrual and menstrual cramps , and reduction of fever Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if : Adult takes more than 4 , 000 mg of acetaminphen in 24 hours Child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours Taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen Adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : skin reddening , blisters or rash .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use : With any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product .
Ask a doctor before use if user has : liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if : the user is taking the blood thinnig drug warfarin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : Pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days .
Pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years .
Fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days .
New symptoms occur .
Redness or swelling is present .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last Do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours .
Do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor Children 6 - 11 years of age : Take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last .
Do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours .
Do not use for more than 5 days unless directed by a doctor Children under 6 years of age : Ask a doctor povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
