Drug Facts Active ingredient Carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % Purpose Ear wax removal aid Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen , and remove excessive ear wax Warnings For use in the ear only Ask a doctor before use if you have • ear drainage or discharge • ear pain • irritation , or rash in the ear • dizziness • an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum • recently had ear surgery When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use for more than 4 days • excessive ear wax remains after use of this product Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age : • Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear • Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal • Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear • Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor • Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe Children under 12 years : consult a doctor Other information • Avoid exposing bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight • Store bottle in the outer carton • Keep cap on bottle when not in use • Product foams on contact with ear wax due to release of oxygen .
There may be an associated crackling sound • Do not use if tamper - evident safety seal is broken or missing Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , glycerin , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 328 - 5890 Drug Facts Active ingredient Carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % Purpose Ear wax removal aid Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen , and remove excessive ear wax Warnings For use in the ear only Ask a doctor before use if you have • ear drainage or discharge • ear pain • irritation , or rash in the ear • dizziness • an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum • recently had ear surgery When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use for more than 4 days • excessive ear wax remains after use of this product Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age : • Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear • Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal • Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear • Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor • Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe Children under 12 years : consult a doctor Other information • Avoid exposing bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight • Store bottle in the outer carton • Do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) • Keep cap on bottle when not in use • Product foams on contact with ear wax due to release of oxygen .
There may be an associated crackling sound .
• Do not use if tamper - evident safety seal is broken or missing Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , glycerin , propylene glycol , sodium citrate , sodium lauryl sulfate , water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 328 - 5890 Weekdays 8 : 30 - 5 : 00 CST Package Labeling : Kit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Labeling : 62011 - 0483 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
