Active ingredients : Ginseng Concentrated Extracts 2 . 5 % ( Total Rg1 and Rb1 more than 10 mg / g ) PURPOSE Stimulant Keep out of reach of children .
Uses : Aids in recovery fatigue , enhances the immune system , antiaging , to help the treatment and prevention of prostate , erectile dysfunction and menopausal disorder .
Warning : 1 ) Take check out the ingredients in the case of allergies , such as idiosyncratic .
2 ) Be careful with the intake when taking medicines ( Diabetes and Blood anticoagulant ) .
3 ) Take enough to shake well if a precipitate that is produced such as plant extracts .
There is no problem the quality of the product and function .
4 ) Take right after opening the product it may be altered .
5 ) Do not place to heat the entire pouch in the microwave .
6 ) Be careful when you drink the opening area it may roll sharp .
Direction : Take 1 pouch , twice a day ( 30 minutes after breakfast and dinner ) Other Information • Keep product out of direct sunlight , high temperature and humidity .
• Store in a cool dry place .
• Refrigerate or as soon as possible to take after opening .
• Any items past the expiration date , spoiled , or damaged in transit can be exchanged where you originally purchased the item .
Inactive Ingredient : Mixed 45 plant extracts 97 . 5 % ( Corn silk , Japanese atractylodes root , Arrowroot , Mulberry leaf , Dried orange peel , Foxglove root , Soybean , Hardy rubber tree , Wildberry , Hedge parsley , Phlomis root , Cuscuta seed , Licorice root , Jujube , Chinese yam , Pseudostellaria multiflora , Rice bran , Spring fruit , Dandelion , Cassia seed , White agaric , Stoneweed root , Isodon Japonicus , Japanese apricot tree , Balloon flower root , Korean angelica root , Peony root , Wilfordi root , Mulberry fruit , Liriope rhizome root , Coconopsis lanceolata root , Mushroom , Milk vetch root , Lotus seed , Dried ginger , Anethum graeolens , Cinnamomum cassia peel , Garlic , Gastrodia , Cornus fruit , Pine needles , Chinese matrimony vine fruit , Schizandra fruit , Ginseng root , Buckhorn ) Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
