Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Purpose Purpose : Antimicrobial Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Active Ingredient Section Active Ingredient : Isopropyl Alcohol ..... 75 % ( v / v ) Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Indications & Usage Section Use : Hand sanitizer tTo help reduce the amount of bacteria on the skin .
Poly San Hand Sanitzer ; Do Not Use Section For external use only , do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on an open skin wound • in or near the eyes , ears or mouth In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Poly San Hand Sanitzer ; Warnings Section Warnings : Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Poly San Hand Sanitizer Gel ; Stop use and ask Doctor if section Stop use and ask Doctor if irritation appears and lasts Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Keep out of reach of children section Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Dosage & Administration Section Directions : Put enough of the product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry .
Children under the age of 6 should be supervised when using this product Poly San Hand Sanitizer ; Inactive Ingredient Section Inactive ingredients : Water ( Aqua ) , glycerol , Fragrance ( Parfum ) Poly San Hand Sanitizer Gel ; Other Safety Information Other information : At or below 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) may discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat .
Store between 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
Poly San Hand Sanitzer Drug Facts Label The following Hand sanitizer is manufactured according to the 1994 TFM for OTC antiseptic drug products that published in the Federal Register of June 17 , 1994 ( 59 FR 31402 ) .
Drug Facts Active Ingredient : Isopropanol 75 % ( v / v ) Purpose : Antimicrobial Use : Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on skin Warnings : Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only , do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on an open skin wound • in or near the eyes , ears or mouth In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Put enough of the product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry Children under the age of 6 should be supervised when using this product Other information : At or below 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) may discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat .
Store between 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients : Water ( Aqua ) , glycerol , fragrance ( Parfum ) Poly San Hand Sanitizer Gallon Size 1 . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Poly San Hand Sanitizer Qt size 1 . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
