DESCRIPTION : Benztropine mesylate is a synthetic compound containing structural features found in atropine and diphenhydramine .
It is a crystalline white powder , very soluble in water .
It is designated chemically as 3α - ( Diphenylmethoxy ) - 1αH , 5αH - tropane methanesulfonate .
Its molecular formula is C21H25NO • CH4O3S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 0 . 5 mg , 1 mg , or 2 mg of benztropine mesylate .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone and pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Benztropine possesses both anticholinergic and antihistaminic effects , although only the former have been established as therapeutically significant in the management of parkinsonism .
In the isolated guinea pig ileum , the anticholinergic activity of this drug is about equal to that of atropine ; however , when administered orally to unanesthetized cats , it is only about half as active as atropine .
In laboratory animals , its antihistaminic activity and duration of action approach those of pyrilamine maleate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For use as an adjunct in the therapy of all forms of parkinsonism .
Useful also in the control of extrapyramidal disorders ( except tardive dyskinesia - see PRECAUTIONS ) due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to benztropine mesylate tablets .
Because of its atropine - like side effects , this drug is contraindicated in pediatric patients under three years of age and should be used with caution in older pediatric patients .
WARNINGS : Safe use in pregnancy has not been established .
Benztropine mesylate may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
When benztropine is given concomitantly with phenothiazines , haloperidol , or other drugs with anticholinergic or antidopaminergic activity , patients should be advised to report gastrointestinal complaints , fever or heat intolerance promptly .
Paralytic ileus , hyperthermia and heat stroke , all of which have sometimes been fatal , have occurred in patients taking anticholinergic - type antiparkinsonism drugs , including benztropine in combination with phenothiazines and / or tricyclic antidepressants .
Since benztropine contains structural features of atropine , it may produce anhidrosis .
For this reason , it should be administered with caution during hot weather , especially when given concomitantly with other atropine - like drugs to the chronically ill , the alcoholic , those who have central nervous system disease , and those who do manual labor in a hot environment .
Anhidrosis may occur more readily when some disturbance of sweating already exists .
If there is evidence of anhidrosis , the possibility of hyperthermia should be considered .
Dosage should be decreased at the discretion of the physician so that the ability to maintain body heat equilibrium by perspiration is not impaired .
Severe anhidrosis and fatal hyperthermia have occurred .
PRECAUTIONS : General Since benztropine mesylate has cumulative action , continued supervision is advisable .
Patients with a tendency to tachycardia and patients with prostatic hypertrophy should be observed closely during treatment .
Dysuria may occur , but rarely becomes a problem .
Urinary retention has been reported with benztropine .
The drug may cause complaints of weakness and inability to move particular muscle groups , especially in large doses .
For example , if the neck has been rigid and suddenly relaxes , it may feel weak , causing some concern .
In this event dosage adjustment is required .
Mental confusion and excitement may occur with large doses , or in susceptible patients .
Visual hallucinations have been reported occasionally .
Furthermore , in the treatment of extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) in patients with mental disorders , occasionally there may be intensification of mental symptoms .
In such cases , antiparkinsonian drugs can precipitate a toxic psychosis .
Patients with mental disorders should be kept under careful observation , especially at the beginning of treatment or if dosage is increased .
Tardive dyskinesia may appear in some patients on long - term therapy with phenothiazines and related agents or may occur after therapy with these drugs has been discontinued .
Antiparkinsonism agents do not alleviate the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia , and in some instances may aggravate them .
Benztropine is not recommended for use in patients with tardive dyskinesia .
The physician should be aware of the possible occurrence of glaucoma .
Although the drug does not appear to have any adverse effect on simple glaucoma , it probably should not be used in angle - closure glaucoma .
Drug Interactions Antipsychotic drugs such as phenothiazines or haloperidol ; tricyclic antidepressants ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pediatric Use : Because of the atropine - like side effects , benztropine mesylate should be used with caution in pediatric patients over three years of age ( see CONTRADICTIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The adverse reactions below , most of which are anticholinergic in nature , have been reported and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia .
Digestive : Paralytic ileus , constipation , vomiting , nausea , dry mouth .
If dry mouth is so severe that there is difficulty in swallowing or speaking , or loss of appetite and weight , reduce dosage , or discontinue the drug temporarily .
Slight reduction in dosage may control nausea and still give sufficient relief of symptoms .
Vomiting may be controlled by temporary discontinuation , followed by resumption at a lower dosage .
Nervous System : Toxic psychosis , including confusion , disorientation , memory impairment , visual hallucinations ; exacerbation of pre - existing psychotic symptoms ; nervousness ; depression ; listlessness ; numbness of fingers .
Special Senses : Blurred vision , dilated pupils .
Urogenital : Urinary retention , dysuria .
Metabolic / Immune or Skin : Occasionally , an allergic reaction , e . g . , skin rash , develops .
If this can not be controlled by dosage reduction , the medication should be discontinued .
Other : Heat stroke , hyperthermia , fever .
OVERDOSAGE : Manifestations — May be any of those seen in atropine poisoning or antihistamine overdosage : CNS depression , preceded or followed by stimulation ; confusion ; nervousness ; listlessness ; intensification of mental symptoms or toxic psychosis in patients with mental illness being treated with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) ; hallucinations ( especially visual ) ; dizziness ; muscle weakness ; ataxia ; dry mouth ; mydriasis ; blurred vision ; palpitations ; tachycardia ; elevated blood pressure ; nausea ; vomiting ; dysuria ; numbness of fingers ; dysphagia ; allergic reactions , e . g . , skin rash ; headache ; hot , dry , flushed skin ; delirium ; coma ; shock ; convulsions ; respiratory arrest ; anhidrosis ; hyperthermia ; glaucoma ; constipation .
Treatment — Physostigmine salicylate , 1 to 2 mg , sc or iv , reportedly will reverse symptoms of anticholinergic intoxication [ 1 ] .
A second injection may be given after 2 hours if required .
Otherwise treatment is symptomatic and supportive .
Induce emesis or perform gastric lavage ( contraindicated in precomatose , convulsive , or psychotic states ) .
Maintain respiration .
A short - acting barbiturate may be used for CNS excitement , but with caution to avoid subsequent depression ; supportive care for depression ( avoid convulsant stimulants such as picrotoxin , pentylenetetrazol , or bemegride ) ; artificial respiration for severe respiratory depression ; a local miotic for mydriasis and cycloplegia ; ice bags or other cold applications and alcohol sponges for hyperpyrexia , a vasopressor and fluids for circulatory collapse .
Darken room for photophobia .
[ 1 ] Duvoisin , R . C . ; Katz , R . J . ; Amer .
Med .
Ass .
206 : 1963 - 1965 , Nov . 25 , 1968 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Benztropine mesylate tablets should be used when patients are able to take oral medication .
The injection is especially useful for psychotic patients with acute dystonic reactions or other reactions that make oral medication difficult or impossible .
It is recommended also when a more rapid response is desired than can be obtained with tablets .
Because of cumulative action , therapy should be initiated with a low dose which is increased gradually at five or six - day intervals to the smallest amount necessary for optimal relief .
Increases should be made in increments of 0 . 5 mg to a maximum of 6 mg or until optimal results are obtained without excessive adverse reactions .
Postencephalitic and Idiopathic Parkinsonism — The usual daily dose is 1 to 2 mg with a range of 0 . 5 to 6 mg orally or parenterally .
As with any agent used in parkinsonism , dosage must be individualized according to age and weight , and the type of parkinsonism being treated .
Generally , older patients , and thin patients cannot tolerate large doses .
Most patients with postencephalitic parkinsonism need fairly large doses and tolerate them well .
Patients with a poor mental outlook are usually poor candidates for therapy .
In idiopathic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated with a single daily dose of 0 . 5 to 1 mg at bedtime .
In some patients , this will be adequate ; in others 4 to 6 mg a day may be required .
In postencephalitic parkinsonism , therapy may be initiated in most patients with 2 mg a day in one or more doses .
In highly sensitive patients , therapy may be initiated with 0 . 5 mg at bedtime , and increased as necessary .
Some patients experience greatest relief by taking the entire dose at bedtime , others react more favorably to divided doses , two to four times a day .
Frequently , one dose a day is sufficient and divided doses may be unnecessary or undesirable .
The long duration of action of this drug makes it particularly suitable for bedtime medication when its effects may last throughout the night , enabling patients to turn in bed during the night more easily , and to rise in the morning .
When benztropine is started , do not terminate therapy with other antiparkinsonian agents abruptly .
If the other agents are to be reduced or discontinued , it must be done gradually .
Many patients obtain greatest relief with combination therapy .
Benztropine mesylate may be used concomitantly with carbidopa - levodopa , or with levodopa , in which case periodic dosage adjustment may be required in order to maintain optimum response .
Drug - Induced Extrapyramidal Disorders — In treating extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , the recommended dosage is 1 to 4 mg once or twice a day orally or parenterally .
Dosage must be individualized according to the need of the patient .
Some patients require more than recommended ; others do not need as much .
When extrapyramidal disorders develop soon after initiation of treatment with neuroleptic drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines ) , they are likely to be transient .
One to 2 mg of benztropine mesylate tablets two or three times a day usually provides relief within one or two days .
After one or two weeks , the drug should be withdrawn to determine the continued need for it .
If such disorders recur , benztropine mesylate can be reinstituted .
Certain drug - induced extrapyramidal disorders that develop slowly may not respond to benztropine .
HOW SUPPLIED : Benztropine mesylate tablets USP 0 . 5 mg - Each white , round compressed tablet is scored and debossed with identification logo cor and 143 on one side .
Benztropine mesylate tablets USP 1 mg - Each white , oval shaped compressed tablet is scored and debossed with identification logo cor and 144 on one side .
Benztropine mesylate tablets USP 2 mg - Each white , round compressed tablet is scored and debossed with identification logo cor and 145 on one side .
They are supplied by State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source NDC 53808 - 0210 - 1 1 mg 30 TABLET White 64980 - 112 - 01 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( see USP ) .
Dispense in well - closed container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by : Corepharma LLC Middlesex , NJ 08846 MF # 276 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Allendale , NJ 07401 And Repackaged By : State of Florida DOH Central Pharmacy 104 - 2 Hamilton Park Drive Tallahassee , FL 32304 United States [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
