Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protections measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions ■ apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , ethylhexyl palmitate , sorbitol , polyamide - 8 , benzyl alcohol , tocopherol , caprylic / capric triglyceride , triethanolamine , fragrance , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , chlorphenesin , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , oleth - 3 , disodium EDTA May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces DIST .
BY Amazon . com Services , LLC Seattle , WA 98109 1 - 877 - 485 - 0385 2022 Amazon .
com , Inc or its affiliates .
All rights reserved .
www . amazon . com / amazonbasics principal display panel SOLIMO Sport Sunscreen Lotion BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Water resistant ( 80 minutes ) UVA / UVB protection 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] principal display panel amazon basics sport sunscreen lotion Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Water REsistant ( 80 minutes ) Oxbenzone & Octinoxate Free SPF 30 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
