RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration , Pediatric Patients 10 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paricalcitol capsules are a vitamin D analog indicated in adults for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with : • Chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) Stages 3 and 4 ( 1 . 1 ) .
• CKD Stage 5 in patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis ( 1 . 2 ) .
1 . 1 Chronic Kidney Disease Stages 3 and 4 Paricalcitol capsules are indicated in adults for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with Chronic Kidney Disease ( CKD ) Stages 3 and 4 .
Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
1 . 2 Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 5 Paricalcitol capsules are indicated in adults for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with CKD Stage 5 in patients on hemodialysis ( HD ) or peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) .
Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dosage : CKD Stages 3 and 4 ( 2 . 1 ) Adult : Baseline iPTH ≤ 500 pg / mL 1 mcg orally daily or 2 mcg three times a week * Adult : Baseline iPTH > 500 pg / mL 2 mcg orally daily or 4 mcg three times a week * Dose Titration : CKD Stages 3 and 4 ( 2 . 1 ) Adult : iPTH same , increased or decreased by < 30 % relative to baseline Increase dose by 1 mcg daily or 2 mcg three times a week * Adult : iPTH decreased by ≥ 30 % and ≤ 60 % relative to baseline Maintain dose Adult : iPTH decreased by > 60 % or iPTH < 60 pg / mL relative to baseline Decrease dose by 1 mcg daily or 2 mcg three times a week * * Not more frequently than every other day when dosing three times a week .
Initial Dosage : CKD Stage 5 ( 2 . 2 ) Adult Dose ( micrograms ) = baseline iPTH ( pg / mL ) divided by 80 .
Administer dose orally three times a week .
* Dose Titration : CKD Stage 5 ( 2 . 2 ) Adult Dose in micrograms is based on most recent iPTH ( pg / mL ) divided by 80 with adjustments based on serum calcium and phosphorous levels .
Dose three times a week .
* * Not more frequently than every other day .
• CKD Stage 5 : To avoid hypercalcemia only treat patients after their baseline serum calcium has been reduced to 9 . 5 mg / dL or lower ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Chronic Kidney Disease Stages 3 and 4 in Adults Administer paricalcitol capsules orally once daily or three times a week [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
When dosing three times weekly , do not administer more frequently than every other day .
Initial Dose Table 1 .
Recommended Paricalcitol Capsules Starting Dose Based upon Baseline iPTH Level Baseline iPTH Level Daily Dose Three Times a Week Dose * Less than or equal to 500 pg / mL 1 mcg 2 mcg More than 500 pg / mL 2 mcg 4 mcg * To be administered not more often than every other day Dose Titration Table 2 .
Recommended Paricalcitol Capsules Dose Titration Base upon iPTH Level Dose Adjustment at 2 to 4 Week Intervals iPTH Level Relative to Baseline Paricalcitol Capsule Dose Daily Dosage Three Times a Week Dosage * The same , increased or decreased by less than 30 % Increase dose by 1 mcg 2 mcg Decreased by more than or equal to 30 % and less than or equal to 60 % Maintain dose - - Decreased by more than 60 % or iPTH less than 60 pg / mL Decrease dose by 1 mcg 2 mcg * To be administered not more often than every other day If a patient is taking the lowest dose , 1 mcg , on the daily regimen and a dose reduction is needed , the dose can be decreased to 1 mcg three times a week .
If a further dose reduction is required , the drug should be withheld as needed and restarted at a lower dosing frequency .
2 . 2 Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 5 in Adults Initial Dose Administer the dose of paricalcitol capsules orally three times a week , no more frequently than every other day based upon the following formula : Dose ( micrograms ) = baseline iPTH ( pg / mL ) divided by 80 Treat patients only after their baseline serum calcium has been adjusted to 9 . 5 mg / dL or lower to minimize the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Dose Titration Individualize the dose of paricalcitol capsules based on iPTH , serum calcium and phosphorus levels .
Titrate paricalcitol capsules dose based on the following formula : Dose ( micrograms ) = most recent iPTH level ( pg / ml ) divided by 80 If serum calcium is elevated , the dose should be decreased by 2 to 4 micrograms .
As iPTH approaches the target range , small , individualized dose adjustments may be necessary in order to achieve a stable iPTH .
In situations where monitoring of iPTH , Ca or P occurs less frequently than once per week , a more modest initial and dose titration ratio ( e . g . , iPTH divided by 100 ) may be warranted .
Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 4 Monitoring Monitor serum calcium and phosphorus levels closely after initiation of paricalcitol capsules , during dose titration periods and during co - administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , andClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
If hypercalcemia is observed , the dose of paricalcitol capsules should be reduced or withheld until these parameters are normalized .
2 . 5 Administration Paricalcitol capsules may be taken without regard to food .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Paricalcitol capsules are available as 1 mcg , 2 mcg , and 4 mcg soft gelatin capsules .
• 1 mcg : oval , gray soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A8 ” • 2 mcg : oval , brown soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A83 ” • 4 mcg : oval , light yellow soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A84 ” Capsules : 1 mcg and 2 mcg ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paricalcitol capsules should not be given to patients with evidence of • hypercalcemia or • vitamin D toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Evidence of hypercalcemia or vitamin D toxicity ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Excessive administration of vitamin D compounds , including paricalcitol capsules , can cause over suppression of PTH , hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , hyperphosphatemia , and adynamic bone disease .
• Hypercalcemia : Excessive administration of paricalcitol capsules can cause over suppression of PTH , hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , hyperphosphatemia , and adynamic bone disease .
Prescription - based doses of vitamin D and its derivatives should be withheld during paricalcitol treatment ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Digitalis toxicity : Potentiated by hypercalcemia of any cause .
Use caution when paricalcitol capsules are prescribed concomitantly with digitalis compounds ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Laboratory tests : Monitor serum calcium , serum phosphorus , and serum or plasma iPTH during initial dosing or following any dose adjustment .
Paricalcitol capsules may increase serum creatinine and therefore decrease the estimated GFR ( eGFR ) ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Aluminum overload and toxicity : Avoid excessive use of aluminum containing compounds ( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Progressive hypercalcemia due to overdosage of vitamin D and its metabolites may be so severe as to require emergency attention [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Acute hypercalcemia may exacerbate tendencies for cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the action of digitalis .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Concomitant administration of high doses of calcium - containing preparations or thiazide diuretics with paricalcitol may increase the risk of hypercalcemia .
High intake of calcium and phosphate concomitant with vitamin D compounds may lead to serum abnormalities requiring more frequent patient monitoring and individualized dose titration .
Patients also should be informed about the symptoms of elevated calcium , which include feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss .
Prescription - based doses of vitamin D and its derivatives should be withheld during paricalcitol treatment to avoid hypercalcemia .
5 . 2 Digitalis Toxicity Digitalis toxicity is potentiated by hypercalcemia of any cause .
Use caution when paricalcitol capsules are prescribed concomitantly with digitalis compounds .
5 . 3 Laboratory Tests During the initial dosing or following any dose adjustment of medication , serum calcium , serum phosphorus , and serum or plasma iPTH should be monitored at least every two weeks for 3 months , then monthly for 3 months , and every 3 months thereafter .
In pre - dialysis patients , paricalcitol capsules may increase serum creatinine and therefore decrease the estimated GFR ( eGFR ) .
Similar effects have also been seen with calcitriol .
5 . 4 Aluminum Overload and Toxicity Aluminum - containing preparations ( e . g . , antacids , phosphate binders ) should not be administered chronically with paricalcitol , as increased blood levels of aluminum and aluminum bone toxicity may occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % and more frequent than placebo ) include diarrhea , nasopharyngitis , dizziness , vomiting , hypertension , hypersensitivity , nausea , and edema ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience CKD Stages 3 and 4 Adults The safety of paricalcitol capsules has been evaluated in three 24 - week ( approximately six - month ) , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter clinical studies involving 220 CKD Stages 3 and 4 patients .
Six percent ( 6 % ) of paricalcitol capsules treated patients and 4 % of placebo treated patients discontinued from clinical studies due to an adverse event .
Adverse events occurring in the paricalcitol capsules group at a frequency of 2 % or greater and more frequently than in the placebo group are presented in Table 3 : Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions by Body System Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Subjects in the Paricalcitol - Treated Group of Three , Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled CKD Stages 3 and 4 Studies Number ( % ) of Subjects Adverse Eventa Paricalcitol Capsules ( n = 107 ) Placebo ( n = 113 ) Overall 88 ( 82 % ) 86 ( 76 % ) Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Vertigo 5 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Discomfort 4 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Constipation 4 ( 4 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) Diarrhea 7 ( 7 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) Nausea 6 ( 6 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) Vomiting 5 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Chest Pain 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Edema 6 ( 6 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) Pain 4 ( 4 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity 6 ( 6 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) Infections and Infestations Fungal Infection 3 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Gastroenteritis 3 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Infection 3 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Sinusitis 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Urinary Tract Infection 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Viral Infection 8 ( 7 % ) 8 ( 7 % ) Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Dehydration 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthritis 5 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Back Pain 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Muscle Spasms 3 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 5 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) Headache 5 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 4 % ) Syncope 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Psychiatric Disorders Depression 3 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 3 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) Oropharyngeal Pain 4 ( 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Pruritus 3 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Rash 4 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Skin Ulcer 3 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Vascular Disorders Hypertension 7 ( 7 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) Hypotension 5 ( 5 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) a . Includes only events more common in the paricalcitol treatment group .
Additional Adverse Reactions The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2 % of the paricalcitol - treated adult patients in the above double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Dry mouth Investigations : Hepatic enzyme abnormal Nervous System Disorders : Dysgeusia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Urticaria Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
CKD Stage 5 Adults The safety of paricalcitol capsules has been evaluated in one 12 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter clinical study involving 88 CKD Stage 5 patients .
Sixty - one patients received paricalcitol capsules and 27 patients received placebo .
The proportion of patients who terminated prematurely from the study due to adverse events was 7 % for paricalcitol capsules treated patients and 7 % for placebo patients .
Adverse events occurring in the paricalcitol capsules group at a frequency of 2 % or greater and more frequently than in the placebo group are as follows : Table 5 .
Adverse Reactions by Body System Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Subjects in the Paricalcitol - Treated Group , Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled CKD Stage 5 Study Number ( % ) of Subjects Adverse Eventsa Paricalcitol Capsules ( n = 61 ) Placebo ( n = 27 ) Overall 43 ( 70 % ) 19 ( 70 % ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation 3 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Diarrhea 7 ( 11 % ) 3 ( 11 % ) Vomiting 4 ( 7 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Edema Peripheral 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 5 ( 8 % ) 2 ( 7 % ) Peritonitis 3 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Sinusitis 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Urinary Tract Infection 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Fluid Overload 3 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Hypoglycemia 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 4 ( 7 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Headache 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Insomnia 3 ( 5 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Renal and Urinary Disorders Renal Failure Chronic 2 ( 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) a . Includes only events more common in the paricalcitol treatment group .
Additional Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions occurred in < 2 % of the paricalcitol - treated patients in the above double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Gastroesophageal reflux disease Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Decreased appetite , hypercalcemia , hypocalcemia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Breast tenderness Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Acne Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of paricalcitol capsules .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders : Angioedema ( including laryngeal edema ) Investigations : Blood creatinine increased 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 shows the clinically significant drug interactions with paricalcitol capsules .
Table 6 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paricalcitol CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Paricalcitol is partially metabolized by CYP3A .
Hence , exposure of paricalcitol will increase upon co - administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as but not limited to : boceprevir , clarithromycin , conivaptan , grapefruit juice , indinavir , itraconazole , ketoconazole , lopinavir / ritonavir , mibefradil , nefazodone , nelfinavir , posaconazole , ritonavir , saquinavir , telaprevir , telithromycin , voriconazole .
Intervention Dose adjustment of paricalcitol capsules may be necessary .
Monitor closely for iPTH and serum calcium concentrations , if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Cholestyramine Clinical Impact Drugs that impair intestinal absorption of fat - soluble vitamins , such as cholestyramine , may interfere with the absorption of paricalcitol .
Intervention Recommend to take paricalcitol capsules at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after taking cholestyramine ( or at as great an interval as possible ) to avoid impeding absorption of paricalcitol .
Mineral Oil Clinical Impact Mineral oil or other substances that may affect absorption of fat may influence the absorption of paricalcitol .
Intervention Recommend to take paricalcitol capsules at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after taking mineral oil ( or at as great an interval as possible ) to avoid affecting absorption of paricalcitol .
• Strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . ketoconazole ) will increase the exposure of paricalcitol .
Use with caution ( 7 ) .
• Cholestyramine , Mineral Oil : Intestinal absorption of paricalcitol may be reduced if administered simultaneously with cholestyramine or mineral oil .
Take paricalcitol capsules at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after taking cholestyramine or mineral oil ( 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) .
Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s ZEMPLAR ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data with paricalcitol capsules in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with chronic kidney disease in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , slightly increased embryofetal loss was observed in pregnant rats and rabbits administered paricalcitol intravenously during the period of organogenesis at doses 2 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) .
Adverse reproductive outcomes were observed at doses that caused maternal toxicity [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Chronic kidney disease in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for hypertension , spontaneous abortion , preterm labor , and preeclampsia .
Chronic kidney disease increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) , prematurity , polyhydramnios , still birth , and low birth weight .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rats and rabbits were treated with paricalcitol by once - daily intravenous ( IV ) injection during the period of organogenesis ( in rats , from gestation day ( GD ) 6 to 17 ; in rabbits , from GD 6 to 18 ) .
Rats were dosed at 0 , 0 . 3 , 1 or 3 mcg / kg / day and rabbits at 0 , 0 . 03 , 0 . 1 or 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day , representing up to 2 or 0 . 5 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 0 . 24 mcg / kg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Slightly decreased fetal viability was observed in both studies at the highest doses representing 2 and 0 . 5 times , respectively , the MRHD in the presence of maternal toxicity ( decreased body weight and food consumption ) .
Pregnant rats were administered paricalcitol by IV injection three times per week at doses of 0 , 0 . 3 , 3 or 20 mcg / kg / day throughout gestation , parturition and lactation ( GD 6 to lactation day ( LD ) 20 ) representing exposures up to 13 times the MHRD .
A small increase in stillbirths and pup deaths from parturition to LD 4 were observed at the high dose when compared to the control group ( 9 . 2 % versus 3 . 3 % in controls ) at 13 times the MRHD , which occurred at a maternally toxic dose known to cause hypercalcemia in rats .
Surviving pups were not adversely affected ; body weight gains , developmental landmarks , reflex ontogeny , learning indices , and locomotor activity were all within normal parameters .
F1 reproductive capacity was unaffected .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of paricalcitol in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Studies in rats have shown that paricalcitol and / or its metabolites are present in the milk of lactating rats ; however , due to specifies - specific differences in lactation physiology , animal data may not reliably predict drug levels in human milk [ see Data ] .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including hypercalcemia in a breastfed infant , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with paricalcitol .
Data Following a single oral administration of 20 mcg / kg of radioactive [ 3 H ] paricalcitol to lactating rats , the concentrations of total radioactivity was determined .
Lower levels of total radioactivity were present in the milk compared to that in the plasma of the dams indicating that low levels of [ 3 H ] paricalcitol and / or its metabolites are secreted into milk .
Exposure of the pups to [ 3 H ] paricalcitol through milk was confirmed by the presence of radioactive material in the pups ’ stomachs .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of paricalcitol capsules in pediatric patients under the age of 10 years have not been established .
Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number ( n = 220 ) of CKD Stages 3 and 4 patients in clinical studies of paricalcitol capsules , 49 % were age 65 and over , while 17 % were age 75 and over .
Of the total number ( n = 88 ) of CKD Stage 5 patients in the pivotal study of paricalcitol capsules , 28 % were age 65 and over , while 6 % were age 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety and effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of paricalcitol capsules can cause hypercalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hyperphosphatemia , and over suppression of PTH [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment of Overdosage The treatment of acute overdosage of paricalcitol capsules should consist of general supportive measures .
If drug ingestion is discovered within a relatively short time , induction of emesis or gastric lavage may be of benefit in preventing further absorption .
If the drug has passed through the stomach , the administration of mineral oil may promote its fecal elimination .
Serial serum electrolyte determinations ( especially calcium ) , rate of urinary calcium excretion , and assessment of electrocardiographic abnormalities due to hypercalcemia should be obtained .
Such monitoring is critical in patients receiving digitalis .
Discontinuation of supplemental calcium and institution of a low - calcium diet are also indicated in accidental overdosage .
Due to the relatively short duration of the pharmacological action of paricalcitol , further measures are probably unnecessary .
If persistent and markedly elevated serum calcium levels occur , there are a variety of therapeutic alternatives that may be considered depending on the patient ' s underlying condition .
These include the use of drugs such as phosphates and corticosteroids , as well as measures to induce an appropriate forced diuresis .
Paricalcitol is not significantly removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Paricalcitol , USP , the active ingredient in paricalcitol capsules , is a synthetically manufactured , metabolically active vitamin D analog of calcitriol with modifications to the side chain ( D2 ) and the A ( 19 - nor ) ring .
Paricalcitol , USP is available as soft gelatin capsules for oral administration containing 1 microgram , 2 micrograms or 4 micrograms of paricalcitol , USP .
Each capsule also contains butylated hydroxytoluene , ethanol , and medium chain triglycerides .
The medium chain triglycerides are fractionated from coconut oil or palm kernel oil .
The capsule shell is composed of gelatin , glycerin , purified water , and titanium dioxide .
The 1 microgram capsule shell also contains black iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
The 2 microgram capsule shell also contains black iron oxide , red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
The 4 microgram capsule shell also contains yellow iron oxide .
Paricalcitol , USP is a white , crystalline powder with the empirical formula of C27H44O3 , which corresponds to a molecular weight of 416 . 64 .
Paricalcitol , USP is chemically designated as 19 - nor - 1α , 3β , 25 - trihydroxy - 9 , 10 - secoergosta - 5 ( Z ) , 7 ( E ) , 22 ( E ) - triene and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Secondary hyperparathyroidism is characterized by an elevation in parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) associated with inadequate levels of active vitamin D hormone .
The source of vitamin D in the body is from synthesis in the skin as vitamin D3 and from dietary intake as either vitamin D2 or D3 .
Both vitamin D2 and D3 require two sequential hydroxylations in the liver and the kidney to bind to and to activate the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) .
The endogenous VDR activator , calcitriol [ 1 , 25 ( OH ) 2D3 ] , is a hormone that binds to VDRs that are present in the parathyroid gland , intestine , kidney , and bone to maintain parathyroid function and calcium and phosphorus homeostasis , and to VDRs found in many other tissues , including prostate , endothelium and immune cells .
VDR activation is essential for the proper formation and maintenance of normal bone .
In the diseased kidney , the activation of vitamin D is diminished , resulting in a rise of PTH , subsequently leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism and disturbances in the calcium and phosphorus homeostasis .
Decreased levels of 1 , 25 ( OH ) 2D3 have been observed in early stages of chronic kidney disease .
The decreased levels of 1 , 25 ( OH ) 2D3 and resultant elevated PTH levels , both of which often precede abnormalities in serum calcium and phosphorus , affect bone turnover rate and may result in renal osteodystrophy .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Paricalcitol is a synthetic , biologically active vitamin D2 analog of calcitriol .
Preclinical and in vitro studies have demonstrated that paricalcitol ' s biological actions are mediated through binding of the VDR , which results in the selective activation of vitamin D responsive pathways .
Vitamin D and paricalcitol have been shown to reduce parathyroid hormone levels by inhibiting PTH synthesis and secretion .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Paricalcitol decreases serum intact parathyroid hormone ( iPTH ) and increases serum calcium and serum phosphorous in both HD and PD patients .
This observed relationship was quantified using a mathematical model for HD and PD patient populations separately .
Computer - based simulations of 100 trials in HD or PD patients ( N = 100 ) using these relationships predict slightly lower efficacy ( at least two consecutive ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline iPTH ) with lower hypercalcemia rates ( at least two consecutive serum calcium ≥ 10 . 5 mg / dL ) for lower iPTH - based dosing regimens .
Further lowering of hypercalcemia rates was predicted if the treatment with paricalcitol is initiated in patients with lower serum calcium levels at screening .
Based on these simulations , a dosing regimen of iPTH / 80 with a screening serum calcium ≤ 9 . 5 mg / dL , approximately 76 . 5 % ( 95 % CI : 75 . 6 % to 77 . 3 % ) of HD patients are predicted to achieve at least two consecutive weekly ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline iPTH over a duration of 12 weeks .
The predicted incidence of hypercalcemia is 0 . 8 % ( 95 % CI : 0 . 7 % to 1 . 0 % ) .
In PD patients , with this dosing regimen , approximately 83 . 3 % ( 95 % CI : 82 . 6 % to 84 . 0 % ) of patients are predicted to achieve at least two consecutive weekly ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline iPTH .
The predicted incidence of hypercalcemia is 12 . 4 % ( 95 % CI : 11 . 7 % to 13 . 0 % ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The mean absolute bioavailability of paricalcitol capsules under low - fat fed condition ranged from 72 % to 86 % in healthy adult volunteers , CKD Stage 5 patients on HD , and CKD Stage 5 patients on PD .
A food effect study in healthy adult volunteers indicated that the Cmax and AUC0 - ∞ were unchanged when paricalcitol was administered with a high fat meal compared to fasting .
Food delayed Tmax by about 2 hours .
The AUC0 - ∞ of paricalcitol increased proportionally over the dose range of 0 . 06 to 0 . 48 mcg / kg in healthy adult volunteers .
Distribution Paricalcitol is extensively bound to plasma proteins ( ≥ 99 . 8 % ) .
The mean apparent volume of distribution following a 0 . 24 mcg / kg dose of paricalcitol in healthy adult volunteers was 34 L .
The mean apparent volume of distribution following a 4 mcg dose of paricalcitol in CKD Stage 3 and a 3 mcg dose in CKD Stage 4 patients is between 44 and 46 L . Metabolism After oral administration of a 0 . 48 mcg / kg dose of 3 H - paricalcitol , parent drug was extensively metabolized , with only about 2 % of the dose eliminated unchanged in the feces , and no parent drug was found in the urine .
Several metabolites were detected in both the urine and feces .
Most of the systemic exposure was from the parent drug .
Two minor metabolites , relative to paricalcitol , were detected in human plasma .
One metabolite was identified as 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol , while the other metabolite was unidentified .
The 24 ( R ) - hydroxy paricalcitol is less active than paricalcitol in an in vivo rat model of PTH suppression .
In vitro data suggest that paricalcitol is metabolized by multiple hepatic and non - hepatic enzymes , including mitochondrial CYP24 , as well as CYP3A4 and UGT1A4 .
The identified metabolites include the product of 24 ( R ) - hydroxylation , 24 , 26 - and 24 , 28 - dihydroxylation and direct glucuronidation .
Elimination Paricalcitol is eliminated primarily via hepatobiliary excretion ; approximately 70 % of the radiolabeled dose is recovered in the feces and 18 % is recovered in the urine .
While the mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol is 4 to 6 hours in healthy adult volunteers , the mean elimination half - life of paricalcitol in CKD Stages 3 , 4 , and 5 ( on HD and PD ) patients ranged from 14 to 20 hours .
Table 7 .
Paricalcitol Capsule Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( mean ± SD ) in CKD Stages 3 , 4 , and 5 Adult Patients Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( units ) CKD Stage 3 n = 15 * CKD Stage 4 n = 14 * CKD Stage 5 HD ** n = 14 CKD Stage 5 PD ** n = 8 Cmax ( ng / mL ) 0 . 11 ± 0 . 04 0 . 06 ± 0 . 01 0 . 575 ± 0 . 17 0 . 413 ± 0 . 06 AUC0 - ∞ ( ng • h / mL ) 2 . 42 ± 0 . 61 2 . 13 ± 0 . 73 11 . 67 ± 3 . 23 13 . 41 ± 5 . 48 CL / F ( L / h ) 1 . 77 ± 0 . 50 1 . 52 ± 0 . 36 1 . 82 ± 0 . 75 1 . 76 ± 0 . 77 V / F ( L ) 43 . 7 ± 14 . 4 46 . 4 ± 12 . 4 38 ± 16 . 4 48 . 7 ± 15 . 6 t1 / 2 16 . 8 ± 2 . 65 19 . 7 ± 7 . 2 13 . 9 ± 5 . 1 17 . 7 ± 9 . 6 HD : hemodialysis ; PD : peritoneal dialysis .
* Four mcg paricalcitol capsules were given to CKD Stage 3 patients ; three mcg paricalcitol capsules were given to CKD Stage 4 patients .
** CKD Stage 5 HD and PD patients received a 0 . 24 mcg / kg dose of paricalcitol as capsules .
Specific Populations Geriatric The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been investigated in geriatric patients greater than 65 years [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Gender The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol following single doses over the 0 . 06 to 0 . 48 mcg / kg dose range was gender independent .
Hepatic Impairment The disposition of paricalcitol ( 0 . 24 mcg / kg ) was compared in patients with mild ( n = 5 ) and moderate ( n = 5 ) hepatic impairment ( as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) and subjects with normal hepatic function ( n = 10 ) .
The pharmacokinetics of unbound paricalcitol was similar across the range of hepatic function evaluated in this study .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
The influence of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol has not been evaluated .
Renal Impairment Following administration of paricalcitol capsules , the pharmacokinetic profile of paricalcitol for CKD Stage 5 on HD or PD was comparable to that in CKD 3 or 4 patients .
Therefore , no special dose adjustments are required other than those recommended in the Dosage and Administration section [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions An in vitro study indicates that paricalcitol is neither an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 or CYP3A nor an inducer of CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 or CYP3A .
Hence , paricalcitol is neither expected to inhibit nor induce the clearance of drugs metabolized by these enzymes .
Omeprazole The effect of omeprazole ( 40 mg capsule ) , a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19 , on paricalcitol ( four 4 mcg capsules ) pharmacokinetics was investigated in a single dose , crossover study in healthy subjects .
The pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol was not affected when omeprazole was administered approximately 2 hours prior to the paricalcitol dose .
Ketoconazole The effect of multiple doses of ketoconazole , a strong inhibitor of CYP3A , administered as 200 mg BID for 5 days on the pharmacokinetics of paricalcitol ( 4 mcg capsule ) has been studied in healthy subjects .
The Cmax of paricalcitol was minimally affected , but AUC0 - ∞ approximately doubled in the presence of ketoconazole .
The mean half - life of paricalcitol was 17 . 0 hours in the presence of ketoconazole as compared to 9 . 8 hours , when paricalcitol was administered alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , an increased incidence of uterine leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma was observed at subcutaneous doses of 1 , 3 , 10 mcg / kg given three times weekly ( 2 to 15 times the AUC at a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The incidence rate of uterine leiomyoma was significantly different than the control group at the highest dose of 10 mcg / kg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in rats , there was an increased incidence of benign adrenal pheochromocytoma at subcutaneous doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , 1 . 5 mcg / kg ( < 1 to 7 times the exposure following a human dose of 14 mcg , equivalent to 0 . 24 mcg / kg based on AUC ) .
The increased incidence of pheochromocytomas in rats may be related to the alteration of calcium homeostasis by paricalcitol .
Paricalcitol did not exhibit genetic toxicity in vitro with or without metabolic activation in the microbial mutagenesis assay ( Ames Assay ) , mouse lymphoma mutagenesis assay ( L5178Y ) , or a human lymphocyte cell chromosomal aberration assay .
There was also no evidence of genetic toxicity in an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Paricalcitol had no effect on fertility ( male or female ) in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mcg / kg / dose ( equivalent to 13 times a human dose of 14 mcg based on surface area , mcg / m2 ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Chronic Kidney Disease Stages 3 and 4 Adults The safety and efficacy of paricalcitol capsules were evaluated in three , 24 - week , double blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , multicenter , Phase 3 clinical studies in CKD Stages 3 and 4 patients .
Two studies used an identical three times a week dosing design , and one study used a daily dosing design .
A total of 107 patients received paricalcitol capsules and 113 patients received placebo .
The mean age of the patients was 63 years , 68 % were male , 71 % were Caucasian , and 26 % were African - American .
The average baseline iPTH was 274 pg / mL ( range : 145 to 856 pg / mL ) .
The average duration of CKD prior to study entry was 5 . 7 years .
At study entry 22 % were receiving calcium based phosphate binders and / or calcium supplements .
Baseline 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels were not measured .
The initial dose of paricalcitol capsules was based on baseline iPTH .
If iPTH was ≤ 500 pg / mL , paricalcitol capsules were administered 1 mcg daily or 2 mcg three times a week , not more than every other day .
If iPTH was > 500 pg / mL , paricalcitol capsules were administered 2 mcg daily or 4 mcg three times a week , not more than every other day .
The dose was increased by 1 mcg daily or 2 mcg three times a week every 2 to 4 weeks until iPTH levels were reduced by at least 30 % from baseline .
The overall average weekly dose of paricalcitol capsules was 9 . 6 mcg / week in the daily regimen and 9 . 5 mcg / week in the three times a week regimen .
In the clinical studies , doses were titrated for any of the following reasons : if iPTH fell to < 60 pg / mL , or decreased > 60 % from baseline , the dose was reduced or temporarily withheld ; if iPTH decreased < 30 % from baseline and serum calcium was ≤ 10 . 3 mg / dL and serum phosphorus was ≤ 5 . 5 mg / dL , the dose was increased ; and if iPTH decreased between 30 to 60 % from baseline and serum calcium and phosphorus were ≤ 10 . 3 mg / dL and ≤ 5 . 5 mg / dL , respectively , the dose was maintained .
Additionally , if serum calcium was between 10 . 4 to 11 mg / dL , the dose was reduced irrespective of iPTH , and the dose was withheld if serum calcium was > 11 mg / dL .
If serum phosphorus was > 5 . 5 mg / dL , dietary counseling was provided , and phosphate binders could have been initiated or increased .
If the elevation persisted , the paricalcitol capsules dose was decreased .
Seventy - seven percent ( 77 % ) of the paricalcitol capsules treated patients and 82 % of the placebo treated patients completed the 24 - week treatment .
The primary efficacy endpoint of at least two consecutive ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline iPTH was achieved by 91 % of paricalcitol capsules treated patients and 13 % of the placebo treated patients ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
The proportion of paricalcitol capsules treated patients achieving two consecutive ≥ 30 % reductions was similar between the daily and the three times a week regimens ( daily : 30 / 33 , 91 % ; three times a week : 62 / 68 , 91 % ) .
The incidence of hypercalcemia ( defined as two consecutive serum calcium values > 10 . 5 mg / dL ) , and hyperphosphatemia in paricalcitol capsules treated patients was similar to placebo .
There were no treatment related adverse events associated with hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia in the paricalcitol capsules group .
No increases in urinary calcium or phosphorous were detected in paricalcitol capsules treated patients compared to placebo .
The pattern of change in the mean values for serum iPTH during the studies is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 .
Mean Values for Serum iPTH Over Time in the Three Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled , Phase 3 , CKD Stages 3 and 4 Studies Combined [ MULTIMEDIA ] The mean changes from baseline to final treatment visit in serum iPTH , calcium , phosphorus , and bone - specific alkaline phosphatase are shown in Table 9 .
Table 9 .
Mean Changes from Baseline to Final Treatment Visit in Serum iPTH , Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase , Calcium , Phosphorus , and Calcium x Phosphorus Product in Three Combined Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled , Phase 3 , CKD Stages 3 and 4 Studies Paricalcitol Capsules Placebo iPTH ( pg / mL ) n = 104 n = 110 Mean Baseline Value 266 279 Mean Final Treatment Value 162 315 Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 104 ( 9 . 2 ) + 35 ( 9 . 0 ) Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase ( mcg / L ) n = 101 n = 107 Mean Baseline 17 . 1 18 . 8 Mean Final Treatment Value 9 . 2 17 . 4 Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) - 7 . 9 ( 0 . 76 ) - 1 . 4 ( 0 . 74 ) Calcium ( mg / dL ) n = 104 n = 110 Mean Baseline 9 . 3 9 . 4 Mean Final Treatment Value 9 . 5 9 . 3 Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) + 0 . 2 ( 0 . 04 ) - 0 . 1 ( 0 . 04 ) Phosphorus ( mg / dL ) n = 104 n = 110 Mean Baseline 4 . 0 4 . 0 Mean Final Treatment Value 4 . 3 4 . 3 Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) + 0 . 3 ( 0 . 08 ) + 0 . 3 ( 0 . 08 ) Pediatric use information for patients 10 to 16 years of age is approved for AbbVie Inc . ’ s Zemplar ( paricalcitol ) capsules .
However , due to AbbVie Inc . ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 5 Adults The safety and efficacy of paricalcitol capsules were evaluated in a Phase 3 , 12 - week , double blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , multicenter study in patients with CKD Stage 5 on HD or PD .
The study used a three times a week dosing design .
A total of 61 patients received paricalcitol capsules and 27 patients received placebo .
The mean age of the patients was 57 years , 67 % were male , 50 % were Caucasian , 45 % were African - American , and 53 % were diabetic .
The average baseline serum iPTH was 701 pg / mL ( range : 216 to 1933 pg / mL ) .
The average time since first dialysis across all subjects was 3 . 3 years .
The initial dose of paricalcitol capsules was based on baseline iPTH / 60 .
Subsequent dose adjustments were based on iPTH / 60 as well as primary chemistry results that were measured once a week .
Starting at Treatment Week 2 , study drug was maintained , increased or decreased weekly based on the results of the previous week ’ s calculation of iPTH / 60 .
Paricalcitol capsules were administered three times a week , not more than every other day .
The proportion of patients achieving at least two consecutive weekly ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline serum iPTH was 88 % of paricalcitol capsules treated patients and 13 % of the placebo treated patients .
The proportion of patients achieving at least two consecutive weekly ≥ 30 % reductions from baseline iPTH was similar for HD and PD patients .
The incidence of hypercalcemia ( defined as two consecutive serum calcium values > 10 . 5 mg / dL ) in patients treated with paricalcitol capsules was 6 . 6 % as compared to 0 % for patients given placebo .
In PD patients the incidence of hypercalcemia in patients treated with paricalcitol capsules was 21 % as compared to 0 % for patients given placebo .
The patterns of change in the mean values for serum iPTH are shown in Figure 2 .
The rate of hypercalcemia with paricalcitol capsules may be reduced with a lower dosing regimen based on the iPTH / 80 formula as shown by computer simulations .
The hypercalcemia rate can be further predicted to decrease , if the treatment is initiated in only those with baseline serum calcium ≤ 9 . 5 mg / dL [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Figure 2 .
Mean Values for Serum iPTH Over Time in a Phase 3 , Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled CKD Stage 5 Study [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Paricalcitol capsules , 1 mcg , are supplied as oval , gray soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A8 ” .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : NDC 65162 - 822 - 03 Bottles of 90 : NDC 65162 - 822 - 09 Paricalcitol capsules , 2 mcg , are supplied as oval , brown soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A83 ” .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : NDC 65162 - 823 - 03 Bottles of 90 : NDC 65162 - 823 - 09 Paricalcitol capsules , 4 mcg , are supplied as oval , light yellow soft gelatin capsules imprinted with “ A84 ” .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : NDC 65162 - 824 - 03 Bottles of 90 : NDC 65162 - 824 - 09 Storage Store paricalcitol capsules at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients of the following : • The most common adverse reactions with use of paricalcitol capsules include diarrhea , hypertension , nausea , nasopharyngitis , dizziness , and vomiting .
• Patients should adhere to instructions regarding diet and phosphorus restriction .
• Patients should contact a health care provider if they develop symptoms of elevated calcium , ( e . g . feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination and weight loss ) .
• Patients should return to the physician ' s office for routine monitoring .
More frequent monitoring is necessary during the initiation of therapy , following dose changes or when potentially interacting medications are started or discontinued .
• Patients should inform their physician of all medications , including prescription and nonprescription drugs , supplements , and herbal preparations they are taking and any change to their medical condition .
Patients should also inform their physician that they are taking paricalcitol capsules if a new medication is prescribed .
• Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with paricalcitol capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 04 - 2017 - 01 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
