SAGENT ™ Rx Only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cefazolin for Injection , USP is a semi - synthetic cephalosporin for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of 3 - { [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] - methyl } - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each vial contains 48 mg of sodium / 1 gram of cefazolin sodium .
Each vial contains cefazolin sodium equivalent to 500 mg or 1 gram cefazolin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intramuscular administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , the mean serum concentrations were 37 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 3 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 500 mg dose , and 64 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 7 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 1 gram dose .
Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for cefazolin is approximately 1 . 8 hours following IV administration and approximately 2 hours following IM administration .
In a study ( using normal volunteers ) of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) , cefazolin produced a steady serum level at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that cefazolin produces mean peak serum levels approximately equivalent to those seen in normal volunteers .
Bile levels in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum levels by up to 5 times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile levels of cefazolin are considerably lower than serum levels ( < 1 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the level of cefazolin becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of cefazolin across the placenta .
Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
Cefazolin achieves peak urine concentrations of approximately 2 , 400 mcg / mL and 4 , 000 mcg / mL respectively following 500 mg and 1 gram intramuscular doses .
In patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis ( 2 L / hr . )
, cefazolin produced mean serum levels of approximately 10 and 30 mcg / mL after 24 hours ' instillation of a dialyzing solution containing 50 mg / L and 150 mg / L , respectively .
Mean peak levels were 29 mcg / mL ( range 13 to 44 mcg / mL ) with 50 mg / L ( 3 patients ) , and 72 mcg / mL ( range 26 to 142 mcg / mL ) with 150 mg / L ( 6 patients ) .
Intraperitoneal administration of cefazolin is usually well tolerated .
Controlled studies on adult normal volunteers , receiving 1 gram 4 times a day for 10 days , monitoring CBC , SGOT , SGPT , bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase , BUN , creatinine , and urinalysis , indicated no clinically significant changes attributed to cefazolin .
Microbiology In vitro tests demonstrate that the bactericidal action of cephalosporins results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Cefazolin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in INDICATIONS AND USAGE .
Gram - Positive Aerobes Staphylococcus aureus ( including beta - lactamase - producing strains ) Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus agalactiae , and other strains of streptococci Streptococcus pneumoniae Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin , and many strains of enterococci are resistant .
Gram - Negative Aerobes Escherichia coli Proteus mirabilis Most strains of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri , Serratia spp . , and Pseudomonas spp .
are resistant to cefazolin .
Susceptibility Testing Diffusion Techniques Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure1 that has been recommended for use with disks to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to cefazolin uses the 30 mcg cefazolin disk .
Results of the standardized single - disk susceptibility test1 with a 30 mcg cefazolin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : RECOMMENDED RANGES FOR CEFAZOLIN SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 18 Susceptible ( S ) 15 to 17 Intermediate ( I ) ≤ 14 Resistant ( R ) Standardized single - disk susceptibility test should be performed ONLY with a 30 mcg cefazolin disk .
A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited by usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in the blood .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal , and , if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative , clinically feasible drugs , the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that usually achievable concentrations of the antimicrobial compound in the blood are unlikely to be inhibitory and that other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms .
The 30 mcg cefazolin disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) E . coli ATCC 25922 21 to 27 S . aureus ATCC 25923 29 to 35 The cefazolin disk should not be used for testing susceptibility to other cephalosporins .
Dilution Techniques Quantitative methods that are used to determine minimum inhibitory concentrations provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure uses a standardized dilution method2 ( broth , agar , or microdilution ) or equivalent with cefazolin powder .
The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 16 Susceptible ( S ) ≥ 64 Resistant ( R ) Interpretation should be as stated above for results using diffusion techniques .
As with standard diffusion techniques , dilution methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms .
Standard cefazolin powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) S . aureus ATCC 25923 0 . 25 to 1 E . coli ATCC 25922 1 to 4 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefazolin for Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of the following serious infections due to susceptible organisms : Respiratory Tract Infections : Due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus ( including beta - lactamase - producing strains ) and S . pyogenes .
Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered to be the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin for Injection , USP is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of cefazolin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available .
Urinary Tract Infections : Due to E . coli , P . mirabilis .
Skin and Skin Structure Infections : Due to S . aureus ( including beta - lactamase - producing strains ) , S . pyogenes , and other strains of streptococci .
Biliary Tract Infections : Due to E . coli , various strains of streptococci , P . mirabilis , and S . aureus .
Bone and Joint Infections : Due to S . aureus .
Genital Infections : ( i . e . , prostatitis , epididymitis ) due to E . coli , P . mirabilis .
Septicemia : Due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus ( including beta - lactamase - producing strains ) , P . mirabilis , E . coli .
Endocarditis : Due to S . aureus ( including beta - lactamase - producing strains ) and S . pyogenes .
Appropriate culture and susceptibility studies should be performed to determine susceptibility of the causative organism to cefazolin .
Perioperative Prophylaxis : The prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for Injection , USP preoperatively , intraoperatively , and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those older than 70 years , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice , or common duct bile stones ) .
The perioperative use of Cefazolin for Injection , USP also may be effective in surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
The prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for Injection , USP should usually be discontinued within a 24 - hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for Injection , USP may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for cultures should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CEFAZOLIN IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WITH KNOWN ALLERGY TO THE CEPHALOSPORIN GROUP OF ANTIBIOTICS .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFAZOLIN IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFAZOLIN , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
IF THIS PRODUCT IS GIVEN TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS , CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS - HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG BETA - LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10 % OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFAZOLIN OCCURS , DISCONTINUE TREATMENT WITH THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES , INCLUDING OXYGEN , IV FLUIDS , IV ANTIHISTAMINES , CORTICOSTEROIDS , PRESSOR AMINES , AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , AS CLINICALLY INDICATED .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of cefazolin may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful clinical observation of the patient is essential .
When cefazolin is administered to patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function , lower daily dosage is required ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As with other β - lactam antibiotics , seizures may occur if inappropriately high doses are administered to patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Cefazolin , as with all cephalosporins , should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated .
Prescribing cefazolin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Drug Interactions Probenecid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood levels .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions A false positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with Benedict ' s solution , Fehling ' s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets , but not with enzyme - based tests , such as CLINISTIX ® .
Positive direct and indirect antiglobulin ( Coombs ' ) tests have occurred ; these may also occur in neonates whose mothers received cephalosporins before delivery .
Information for Patients Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including cefazolin , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefazolin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefazolin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Carcinogenesis / Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of cefazolin have not been performed .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits at doses up to 25 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefazolin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery When cefazolin has been administered prior to caesarean section , drug levels in cord blood have been approximately one quarter to one third of maternal drug levels .
The drug appears to have no adverse effect on the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when cefazolin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness for use in premature infants and neonates have not been established .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for recommended dosage in pediatric patients older than 1 month .
Geriatric Use Of the 920 subjects who received cefazolin in clinical studies , 313 ( 34 % ) were 65 years and over , while 138 ( 15 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported : Gastrointestinal Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , anorexia , and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Allergic Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed .
As with other cephalosporins , reports of hepatitis have been received .
Renal As with other cephalosporins , reports of increased BUN and creatinine levels , as well as renal failure , have been received .
Local Reactions Rare instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection .
Pain at the site of injection after intramuscular administration has occurred infrequently .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions Genital and anal pruritus ( including vulvar pruritus , genital moniliasis , and vaginitis ) .
Cephalosporin - Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefazolin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions Allergic reactions , urticaria , serum - sickness - like reaction , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , colitis , renal dysfunction , toxic nephropathy , abdominal pain , reversible hyperactivity , hypertonia , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , and superinfection .
Altered Laboratory Tests Prolonged prothrombin time , positive direct Coombs ' test , false - positive test for urinary glucose , elevated bilirubin , elevated LDH , increased creatinine , pancytopenia , and agranulocytosis .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage * In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) * 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours Perioperative Prophylactic Use To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended doses are : • 1 gram IV or IM administered 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery .
• For lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) , 500 mg to 1 gram IV or IM during surgery ( administration modified depending on the duration of the operative procedure ) .
• 500 mg to 1 gram IV or IM every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively .
It is important that ( 1 ) the preoperative dose be given just ( 1 / 2 to 1 hour ) prior to the start of surgery so that adequate antibiotic levels are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( 2 ) cefazolin for injection be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient levels of the antibiotic at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin for injection may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Reduced Renal Function Cefazolin may be used in patients with reduced renal function with the following dosage adjustments : Patients with a creatinine clearance of 55 mL / min .
or greater or a serum creatinine of 1 . 5 mg % or less can be given full doses .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 35 to 54 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 1 . 6 to 3 mg % can also be given full doses but dosage should be restricted to at least 8 hour intervals .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 11 to 34 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 3 . 1 to 4 . 5 mg % should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 12 hours .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 10 mL / min .
or less or serum creatinine of 4 . 6 mg % or greater should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 18 to 24 hours .
All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection .
Patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis : See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .
Pediatric Dosage In pediatric patients , a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 10 to 20 mg / lb ) of body weight , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses , is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections .
Total daily dosage may be increased to 100 mg / kg ( 45 mg / lb ) of body weight for severe infections .
Since safety for use in premature infants and in neonates has not been established , the use of cefazolin in these patients is not recommended .
Pediatric Dosage Guide Weight 25 mg / kg / day Divided into 3 Doses 25 mg / kg / day Divided into 4 Doses Lbs Kg Approximate Single Dose mg / q8h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 125 mg / mL Approximate Single Dose mg / q6h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 125 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 40 mg 0 . 35 mL 30 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 75 mg 0 . 6 mL 55 mg 0 . 45 mL 30 13 . 6 115 mg 0 . 9 mL 85 mg 0 . 7 mL 40 18 . 1 150 mg 1 . 2 mL 115 mg 0 . 9 mL 50 22 . 7 190 mg 1 . 5 mL 140 mg 1 . 1 mL Weight 50 mg / kg / day Divided into 3 Doses 50 mg / kg / day Divided into 4 Doses Lbs Kg Approximate Single Dose mg / q8h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 225 mg / mL Approximate Single Dose mg / q6h Vol .
( mL ) needed with dilution of 225 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 75 mg 0 . 35 mL 55 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 150 mg 0 . 7 mL 110 mg 0 . 5 mL 30 13 . 6 225 mg 1 mL 170 mg 0 . 75 mL 40 18 . 1 300 mg 1 . 35 mL 225 mg 1 mL 50 22 . 7 375 mg 1 . 7 mL 285 mg 1 . 25 mL In pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 70 to 40 mL / min . )
, 60 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be sufficient .
In patients with moderate impairment ( creatinine clearance of 40 to 20 mL / min . )
, 25 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be adequate .
Pediatric patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 20 to 5 mL / min . )
may be given 10 percent of the normal daily dose every 24 hours .
All dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose .
Reconstitution Preparation of Parenteral Solution Parenteral drug products should be SHAKEN WELL when reconstituted , and inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration .
If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids , the drug solutions should be discarded .
When reconstituted or diluted according to the instructions below , Cefazolin for Injection is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Reconstituted solutions may range in color from pale yellow to yellow without a change in potency .
Single - Dose Vials For IM injection , IV direct ( bolus ) injection or IV infusion , reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection according to the following table .
SHAKE WELL .
Vial Size Amount of Diluent Approximate Concentration Approximate Available Volume 500 mg 2 mL 225 mg / mL 2 . 2 mL 1 g 2 . 5 mL 330 mg / mL 3 mL Administration Intramuscular Administration Reconstitute vials with Sterile Water for Injection according to the dilution table above .
Shake well until dissolved .
Cefazolin for Injection should be injected into a large muscle mass .
Pain on injection is infrequent with Cefazolin for Injection .
Intravenous Administration Direct ( bolus ) injection : Following reconstitution according to the above table , further dilute vials with approximately 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection .
Inject the solution slowly over 3 to 5 minutes , directly or through tubing for patients receiving parenteral fluids ( see list below ) .
Intermittent or continuous infusion : Dilute reconstituted Cefazolin for Injection in 50 to 100 mL of 1 of the following solutions : Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % or 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP Invert Sugar 5 % or 10 % in Sterile Water for Injection Ringer ' s Injection , USP 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP HOW SUPPLIED Cefazolin for Injection , USP , equivalent to 500 mg or 1 g cefazolin per vial , is supplied as follows : NDC Cefazolin for Injection , USP Package Factor 25021 - 100 - 10 500 mg Single - Dose Vial 25 vials per carton 25021 - 101 - 10 1 gram Single - Dose Vial 25 vials per carton As with other cephalosporins , Cefazolin for Injection , USP tends to darken depending on storage conditions ; within the stated recommendations , however , product potency is not adversely affected .
Storage Conditions Before reconstitution store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
REFERENCES • National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards ( NCCLS ) .
January 2003 .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard - Eighth Edition .
NCCLS Document M2 - A8 and Disk Diffusion Supplemental Tables M100 - S13 .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA , USA .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards ( NCCLS ) .
January 2003 .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard - Sixth Edition .
NCCLS Document M7 - A6 and MIC Testing Supplemental Tables , M100 - S13 .
NCCLS , Wayne , PA , USA .
CLINITEST ® is a registered trademark of Miles , Inc .
CLINISTIX ® is a registered trademark of Bayer Corporation .
SAGENT ™ Mfd .
for SAGENT Pharmaceuticals Schaumburg , IL 60195 Made in USA © 2011 Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
May 2011 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 8978 - 02 Rx only CEFAZOLIN for Injection , USP 1 gram Equivalent to 1 gram of cefazolin activity For IM or IV Use [ MULTIMEDIA ]
