Drug Facts Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 6 % Zinc Oxide 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses : • Helps prevent sunburn .
• Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection .
• Retains SPF after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
• If used as as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings : • For external use only Do not use • On damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask doctor if • Rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , Ask a health professional before use .
Directions : • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
• Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Other information .
• Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients : Bis - Vinyl Dimethicone / Dimethicone , Copolymer , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Extract , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Cetyl , PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclotetrasiloxane , Dimethicone , Dimethiconol , Helianthus Annus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Iron Oxides ( Black , Red , White , Yellow ) , Rubus Idaeus ( Rasperry ) Extract , Silica , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate ( Vitamin C ) , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Tridecyl Salicylate .
Questions ?
( 855 ) REMEDIO Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
