La Jolla Pharmaceutical AGUETTANT ESSENTIAL MEDICINES Important Prescribing Information Subject : Temporary importation of Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ( equivalent to 2 mEq / mL ) , concentrate for solution for infusion to address drug shortage June , 2018 Dear Healthcare Professional , Due to the critical shortage of Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate 2 mEq / mL , USP in the United States ( U . S . ) market , Laboratoire Aguettant ( Aguettant ) is coordinating with the U . S . Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to increase the availability of Potassium Chloride for Injection .
Aguettant has initiated temporary importation of its Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ( equivalent to 2 mEq / mL ) concentrate for solution for infusion .
This product is manufactured and marketed in France by Aguettant .
Given the scale of this shortage , FDA is coordinating with several firms to import Potassium Chloride for Injection 2 mEq / mL .
At this time , however , no other entity except La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company is authorized by the FDA to import or distribute Aguettant ' s Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ( equivalent to 2 mEq / mL ) concentrate for solution for infusion .
FDA has not approved Aguettant ' s Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL concentrate for solution for infusion , but allows its temporary importation into the United States .
You may be provided with additional letters for other imported products you receive .
Please read each letter in its entirety because each letter may contain different , product - specific information .
Effective immediately , and during this temporary period , Aguettant will offer the following presentation of Potassium Chloride for Injection : Product name and description Size Pack factor NDC Number Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL , concentrate for solution for infusion ( equivalent to 2 mEq / mL ) 10 mL 50 ampules per box 60710 - 015 - 50 There are key differences between the labeling of the FDA approved Potassium Chloride for Injection 2 mEq / mL products and Aguettant ' s imported Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL .
It is important to note the following : • Aguettant ' s product is labeled Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 , 15 g / mL which means 0 . 15 g / mL in the U . S . and is equal to 2 mEq / mL of potassium chloride .
We have affixed the following sticker with this information on the carton for the imported product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The ampule label of Aguettant ' s product is in French without English translation .
However , the carton and the prescribing information for Aguettant ' s product is translated into English .
Institutions should develop a strategy , which may include labeling the ampules with key information , to ensure safe use of the product .
• Aguettant ' s product does not contain a barcode .
Institutions should manually input the product into their systems .
Alternative procedures should be followed to assure that the correct drug product is being used and administered to individual patients .
• Inspect the solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
• The imported product is packaged in polypropylene 10 mL ampules .
To use the ampule , hold it upright , twist off the cap , and withdraw the solution using a syringe .
A side by side comparison of the key differences in the labeling between the FDA - approved product and the imported product is displayed in the product comparison table at the end of this letter .
Please refer to the package insert for the FDA - approved Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP drug product for full prescribing information .
To order or if you have questions about Aguettant ' s Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ampules , please contact La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company at 1 - 800 - 651 - 3861 .
To report an adverse event concerning the imported Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ampules , please contact La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company at 1 - 800 - 651 - 3861 .
Adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of the Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ampules may also be reported to the FDA ' s MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program either online , by regular mail or by fax : • Complete and submit the report Online : www . fda . gov / medwatch / report . htm • Regular mail or Fax : Download form www . fda . gov / MedWatch / getforms . htm or call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 to request a reporting form , then complete and return to the address on the pre - addressed form , or submit by fax to 1 - 800 - FDA - 0178 .
If you have any questions about the information contained in this letter or use of Aguettant ' s Potassium Chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL ampules , please contact La Jolla ' s Medical Information Contact Center ( MICC ) at 1 - 800 - 651 - 3861 .
Sincerely , Jérôme JOLY Laboratoire Aguettant Director , Global QP Cécile BAILLY Laboratoire Aguettant Medical Director George F . Tidmarsh , MD , PhD Chief Executive Officer La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company Doranne Frano Vice President , Regulatory Affairs La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company PRODUCT COMPARISON TABLE Import Product U . S . Marketed Product AGUETTANT HOSPIRA Presentation [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Name Potassium chloride Proamp ® 0 . 15 g / mL , concentrate for solution for infusion Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP Active Ingredient Concentration Potassium : 2 . 012 mmol / mL Equivalent to : ( 2 mEq K + / mL ) ( 149 mg / mL ) Each mL contains potassium chloride , 2 mEq ( 149 mg ) Unit Volume / Volume 10 ml polypropylene ampules The ampules are made by polypropylene compliant to the 3 . 1 . 6 .
European pharmacopoeia monograph .
They are formed through blow fill seal process and are terminally sterilized at 121 ° C , assuring a maximal level of sterility of the contained solution .
5 mL single dose vials Semi - rigid plastic vials fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
Indication and Usage Concentrate for solution for infusion administered to patients suffering from low potassium blood levels ( hypokalemia ) .
Potassium is naturally present in body fluids and is needed for normal body function .
It can also be used as a potassium supply for patients who are unable to be fed orally and receive total parenteral nutrition .
Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate , USP is indicated in the treatment of potassium deficiency states when oral replacement is not feasible .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Ampule Label POTASSIUM chlorure PROAMP ® 1 , 5 g - 10 mL 0 , 15 g / mL 2 , 012 mmol / mL d ' ion K + Solution à diluer pour perfusion - IV A diluer avant utilisation K 15 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Ampule Box CHLORURE DE POTASSIUM PROAMP ® 0 , 15 g / mL AGUETTANT POTASSIUM CHLORIDE CAUTION Potassium Chloride for Injection Concentrate Each ampule contains 20 mEq / 10 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) 0 , 15 g / mL = 2 mEq / mL Must be diluted before use IV use AGUETTANT 50 polypropylene ampoules 1 , 5 g 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
