Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Uses Uses for Oral Laxative • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste .
adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspon ( 5 grams ) For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in a bath .
Use warm water for best results .
Caution : if prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH , DUBLIN , OHIO 43017 www . myleader . com 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 Principal Display Panel Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
NDC 37205 - 602 - 07 LEADER Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . M g SO 4 7 H 2 0 Saline Laxative For Relief of Occasional Constipation Soaking Aid For Minor Sprains and Bruises NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 602 . 002 / 602 AA [ MULTIMEDIA ]
