Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone acetate 1 . 12 % ( equivalent to hydrocortisone 1 % ) Purpose Anti - itch Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : · eczema · psoriasis · insect bites · detergents · jewelry · seborrheic dermatitis · soaps · cosmetics · poison ivy , oak , sumac • for the temporary relief of external genital and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • rectal bleeding occurs • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • for itching due to minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : Do not use , consult a doctor .
• for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients ceteareth - 20 , cetearyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 30 stearate , petrolatum , propanediol , purified water , simethicone , sorbic acid , sorbitol Questions ?
1 - 800 - 325 - 8232 www . vanicream . com * To learn more about our products and ingredients , visit www . vanicream . com or call 1 - 800 - 325 - 8232 facebook logo , instagram logo Official Vanicream PHARMACEUTICAL SPECIALTIES , INC .
ROCHESTER , MN 55901 Made in U . S . A . GP21O Vanicream is a trademark , or registered trademark , of Pharmaceutical Specialties , Inc . in the U . S . or other countries .
© PSI 2015 All rights reserved NDC 45334 - 327 - 02 DERMATOLOGIST TESTED MAXIMUM STRENGTH VANICREAM ™ HC 1 % Hydrocortisone Anti - Itch Cream for Sensitive Skin Free of dyes , fragrance , masking fragrance , lanolin , parabens & formaldehyde releasers Non - comedogenic ● Gluten - Free Fast relief for flare - ups due to • eczema • dermatitis • psoriasis Net Wt 2 oz ( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
