Drug Facts Active ingredients Dimethicone 1 . 2 % Titanium dioxide 1 . 5 % Zinc oxide 15 % Purpose Skin Protectant Sunscreen Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
• helps prevent and temporarily protects chapped or cracked skin and lips • helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients butylene / ethylene / styrene copolymer , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , ethylene / propylene / styrene copolymer , hydrogenated polyisobutene , isononyl isononanoate , microcrystalline wax , polyhydroxystearic acid , silica dimethyl silylate , stearic acid , triethoxycaprylylsilane Questions ?
1 - 800 - 325 - 8232 www . vanicream . com PHARMACEUTICAL SPECIALTIES , INC .
Rochester , MN 55901 Made in U . S . A . MC15H LIP03 VANICREAM ™ is a trademark , or registered trademark , of Pharmaceutical Specialties , Inc . in the U . S . or other countries .
VANICREAM ™ Lip Protectant / Sunscreen NDC 45334 - 350 - 35 DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED • BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 • WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) • Helps prevent moisture loss • Helps protect from UVA / UVB rays • No sensitizing chemical sunscreens • Free of dyes , flavoring , fragrance , masking fragrance , lanolin , parabens , formaldehyde & other preservatives • Gluten - free Net Wt 0 . 35 oz ( 10 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
