Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert : This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it the better it will work .
• if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
Other information • read the instructions , warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• do not use if carton is open or seal is removed • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch and talc .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 855 - 888 - 2467 Manufactured for : Afaxys Pharma , LLC Charleston , SC , 29403 , USA Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Unit - VII ( SEZ ) Mahabubnagar ( Dt ) - 509302 , India Made in India Code : TS / DRUGS / 22 / 2009 Patient Information EContra One - Step ® ( Levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Step .
What You Need to Know What is EContra One - Step ® ?
EContra One - Step ® is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What EContra One - Step ® is not .
EContra One - Step ® will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
EContra One - Step ® will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use EContra One - Step ® ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use EContra One - Step ® within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
EContra One - Step ® is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method When not to use EContra One - Step ® .
EContra One - Step ® should not be used : • as a regular birth control method , because it ’ s not as effective as regular birth control .
• if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in EContra One - Step ® .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of EContra One - Step ® and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does EContra One - Step ® work ?
EContra One - Step ® is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
EContra One - Step ® contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that EContra One - Step ® may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from EContra One - Step ® ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take EContra One - Step ® , the better it works .
How effective is EContra One - Step ® ?
If EContra One - Step ® is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know EContra One - Step ® worked ?
You will know EContra One - Step ® has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• when used as directed , EContra One - Step ® is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about EContra One - Step ® ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number Afaxys Pharma , LLC at 1 - 855 - 888 - 2467 .
Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , potato starch , and talc .
If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
Manufactured for Afaxys Pharma , LLC Charleston , SC , 29403 , USA .
Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Unit - VII ( SEZ ) Mahabubnagar ( Dt ) - 509302 , India Made in India Code : TS / DRUGS / 22 / 2009 Revised : 09 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 mg ( 3 Blister Carton Label ) † Compares to the active ingredient of Plan B One - Step ® NDC 50102 - 211 - 13 EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTIVE EContra One - Step ® ( Levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be .
Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
Will not harm an existing pregnancy .
1 Tablet 1 . 5 mg One Tablet .
One Step .
afaxys ® 3 Mono Cartons of 1 Tablet Each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 mg ( 6 Blister Carton Label ) † Compares to the active ingredient of Plan B One - Step ® NDC 50102 - 211 - 16 EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTIVE EContra One - Step ® ( Levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Not for regular birth control .
The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be .
Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
Will not harm an existing pregnancy .
1 Tablet 1 . 5 mg One Tablet .
One Step .
afaxys ® 6 Mono Cartons of 1 Tablet Each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
