DESCRIPTION Folic acid , N - [ p - [ [ ( 2 - amino - 4 - hydroxy - 6 - pteridinyl ) methyl ] - amino ] benzoyl ] - Lglutamic acid , is a B complex vitamin containing a pteridine moiety linked by a methylene bridge to para - aminobenzoic acid , which is joined by a peptide linkage to glutamic acid .
Conjugates of folic acid are present in a wide variety of foods , particularly liver , kidneys , yeast , and leafy green vegetables .
Commercially available folic acid is prepared synthetically .
Folic acid , USP occurs as a yellow or yellowish - orange crystalline powder and is very slightly soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
Folic acid , USP is readily soluble in dilute solutions of alkali hydroxides and carbonates , and solutions of the drug may be prepared with the aid of sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate , thereby forming the soluble sodium salt of folic acid ( sodium folate ) .
Aqueous solutions of folic acid are heat sensitive and rapidly decompose in the presence of light and / or riboflavin ; solutions should be stored in a cool place protected from light .
The structural formula of folic acid is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 19 H 19 N 7 O 6 M . W . 441 . 40 Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 1 mg folic acid , USP .
Folic acid tablets , USP 1 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Folic acid acts on megaloblastic bone marrow to produce a normoblastic marrow .
In man , an exogenous source of folate is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erythropoiesis .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions in the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Impairment of thymidylate synthesis in patients with folic acid deficiency is thought to account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megaloblastic and macrocytic anemias .
Folic acid is absorbed rapidly from the small intestine , primarily from the proximal portion .
Naturally occurring conjugated folates are reduced enzymatically to folic acid in the gastrointestinal tract prior to absorption .
Folic acid appears in the plasma approximately 15 to 30 minutes after an oral dose ; peak levels are generally reached within 1 hour .
After intravenous administration , the drug is rapidly cleared from the plasma .
Cerebrospinal fluid levels of folic acid are several times greater than serum levels of the drug .
Folic acid is metabolized in the liver to 7 , 8 - dihydrofolic acid and eventually to 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydrofolic acid with the aid of reduced diphosphopyridine nucleotide ( DPNH ) and folate reductases .
Tetrahydrofolic acid is linked in the N 5 or N 10 positions with formyl , hydroxymethyl , methyl , or formimino groups .
N 5 - formyltetrahydrofolic acid is leucovorin .
Tetrahydrofolic acid derivatives are distributed to all body tissues but are stored primarily in the liver .
Normal serum levels of total folate have been reported to be 5 to 15 ng / mL ; normal cerebrospinal fluid levels are approximately 16 to 21 ng / mL .
Normal erythrocyte folate levels have been reported to range from 175 to 316 ng / mL .
In general , folate serum levels below 5 ng / mL indicate folate deficiency , and levels below 2 ng / mL usually result in megaloblastic anemia .
After a single oral dose of 100 mcg of folic acid in a limited number of normal adults , only a trace amount of the drug appeared in the urine .
An oral dose of 5 mg in 1 study and a dose of 40 mcg / kg of body weight in another study resulted in approximately 50 % of the dose appearing in the urine .
After a single oral dose of 15 mg , up to 90 % of the dose was recovered in the urine .
A majority of the metabolic products appeared in the urine after 6 hours ; excretion was generally complete within 24 hours .
Small amounts of orally administered folic acid have also been recovered in the feces .
Folic acid is also excreted in the milk of lactating mothers .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Folic acid is effective in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to a deficiency of folic acid ( as may be seen in tropical or nontropical sprue ) and in anemias of nutritional origin , pregnancy , infancy , or childhood .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Folic acid is contraindicated in patients who have shown previous intolerance to the drug .
WARNING Administration of folic acid alone is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias in which vitamin B 12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS General Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurologic manifestations remain progressive .
There is a potential danger in administering folic acid to patients with undiagnosed anemia , since folic acid may obscure the diagnosis of pernicious anemia by alleviating the hematologic manifestations of the disease while allowing the neurologic complications to progress .
This may result in severe nervous system damage before the correct diagnosis is made .
Adequate doses of vitamin B 12 may prevent , halt , or improve the neurologic changes caused by pernicious anemia .
Drug Interactions There is evidence that the anticonvulsant action of phenytoin is antagonized by folic acid .
A patient whose epilepsy is completely controlled by phenytoin may require increased doses to prevent convulsions if folic acid is given .
Folate deficiency may result from increased loss of folate , as in renal dialysis and / or interference with metabolism ( e . g . , folic acid antagonists such as methotrexate ) ; the administration of anticonvulsants , such as diphenylhydantoin , primidone , and barbiturates ; alcohol consumption and , especially , alcoholic cirrhosis ; and the administration of pyrimethamine and nitrofurantoin .
False low serum and red cell folate levels may occur if the patient has been taking antibiotics , such as tetracycline , which suppress the growth of Lactobacillus casei .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential and studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential or effect on fertility have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category A Folic acid is usually indicated in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias of pregnancy .
Folic acid requirements are markedly increased during pregnancy , and deficiency will result in fetal damage ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Studies in pregnant women have not shown that folic acid increases the risk of fetal abnormalities if administered during pregnancy .
If the drug is used during pregnancy , the possibility of fetal harm appears remote .
Because studies cannot rule out the possibility of harm , however , folic acid should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Folic acid is excreted in the milk of lactating mothers .
During lactation , folic acid requirements are markedly increased ; however , amounts present in human milk are adequate to fulfill infant requirements , although supplementation may be needed in low - birth - weight infants , in those who are breast - fed by mothers with folic acid deficiency ( 50 mcg daily ) , or in those with infections or prolonged diarrhea .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Folic acid is relatively nontoxic in man .
Rare instances of allergic responses to folic acid preparations have been reported and have included erythema , skin rash , itching , general malaise , and respiratory difficulty due to bronchospasm .
One patient experienced symptoms suggesting anaphylaxis following injection of the drug .
Gastrointestinal side effects , including anorexia , nausea , abdominal distention , flatulence , and a bitter or bad taste , have been reported in patients receiving 15 mg folic acid daily for 1 month .
Other side effects reported in patients receiving 15 mg daily include altered sleep patterns , difficulty in concentrating , irritability , overactivity , excitement , mental depression , confusion , and impaired judgment .
Decreased vitamin B 12 serum levels may occur in patients receiving prolonged folic acid therapy .
In an uncontrolled study , orally administered folic acid was reported to increase the incidence of seizures in some epileptic patients receiving phenobarbital , primidone , or diphenylhydantoin .
Another investigator reported decreased diphenylhydantoin serum levels in folate - deficient patients receiving diphenylhydantoin who were treated with 5 mg or 15 mg of folic acid daily .
OVERDOSAGE Except during pregnancy and lactation , folic acid should not be given in therapeutic doses greater than 0 . 4 mg daily until pernicious anemia has been ruled out .
Patients with pernicious anemia receiving more than 0 . 4 mg of folic acid daily who are inadequately treated with vitamin B 12 may show reversion of the hematologic parameters to normal , but neurologic manifestations due to vitamin B 12 deficiency will progress .
Doses of folic acid exceeding the Recommended Dietary Allowance ( RDA ) should not be included in multivitamin preparations ; if therapeutic amounts are necessary , folic acid should be given separately .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral administration is preferred .
Although most patients with malabsorption cannot absorb food folates , they are able to absorb folic acid given orally .
Parenteral administration is not advocated but may be necessary in some individuals ( e . g . , patients receiving parenteral or enteral alimentation ) .
Doses greater than 0 . 1 mg should not be used unless anemia due to vitamin B 12 deficiency has been ruled out or is being adequately treated with a cobalamin .
Daily doses greater than 1 mg do not enhance the hematologic effect , and most of the excess is excreted unchanged in the urine .
The usual therapeutic dosage in adults and children ( regard less of age ) is up to 1 mg daily .
Resistant cases may require larger doses .
When clinical symptoms have subsided and the blood picture has become normal , a daily maintenance level should be used , i . e . , 0 . 1 mg for infants and up to 0 . 3 mg for children under 4 years of age , 0 . 4 mg for adults and children 4 or more years of age , and 0 . 8 mg for pregnant and lactating women , but never less than 0 . 1 mg / day .
Patients should be kept under close supervision and adjustment of the maintenance level made if relapse appears imminent .
In the presence of alcoholism , hemolytic anemia , anticonvulsant therapy , or chronic infection , the maintenance level may need to be increased .
HOW SUPPLIED Folic Acid Tablets USP , 1 mg , are supplied as round , yellow tablets imprinted “ AN ” and “ 361 ” on one side and scored on the other side .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 30 : NDC 55289 - 492 - 30 Bottles of 90 : NDC 55289 - 492 - 90 Dispense in well - closed container with child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
