These highlights do not include all the information needed to use MANNITOL INJECTION safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for MANNITOL INJECTION .
MANNITOL injection , for intravenous use Initial U . S . Approval : 1964 Recent Major Changes Indications and Usage ( removed , revised ) ( 1 ) 03 / 2020 Contraindications ( 4 ) 03 / 2020 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 ) 03 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mannitol Injection is indicated for the reduction of : • intracranial pressure and treatment of cerebral edema .
• elevated intraocular pressure .
Mannitol Injection is an osmotic diuretic , indicated for the reduction of : • intracranial pressure and treatment of cerebral edema .
( 1 ) • elevated intraocular pressure .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions Mannitol Injection is for intravenous infusion preferably through a central venous catheter [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) , DESCRIPTION ( 11 ) ] .
Prior to the administration of Mannitol Injection , evaluate renal , cardiac , and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Do not administer Mannitol Injection simultaneously with blood products or through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseduoagglutination or hemolysis .
If it is essential that blood be given simultaneously , at least 20 mEq of sodium chloride should be added to each liter of mannitol solution to avoid pseudoagglutination .
Do not transfer Mannitol Injection into polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) bags ; a white flocculent precipitate may form from contact with PVC surfaces .
Administer Mannitol Injection using an administration set with a filter to ensure against infusion of mannitol crystals .
Preparation Visually inspect the container before preparation and again before administration .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , the container undamaged , and the fliptop vial seal intact .
Crystals may form in Mannitol Injection , especially if the solution is exposed to low temperatures .
If crystallization occurs , warm the vial in water at 80 ° C and periodically shake vigorously to dissolve the crystals .
Mannitol Injection may be autoclaved at 121 ° C for 20 minutes at 15 psi .
Cool to body temperature or less before administering .
Re - inspect Mannitol Injection for crystals prior to administration .
Discard the solution if all the crystals cannot be dissolved .
Remove cover from fliptop vial and cleanse stopper with antiseptic before use .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
For single use only ; discard unused portion .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Prior to administration of Mannitol Injection , evaluate renal , cardiac , and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances .
The total dosage , concentration , and rate of administration depend on the age , weight , and condition of the patient being treated , including fluid requirement , electrolyte balance , serum osmolality , urinary output , and concomitant therapy .
The following outline of administration and dosage is only a general guide to therapy .
Reduction of Intracranial Pressure and Treatment of Cerebral Edema Usually a maximum reduction in intracranial pressure can be achieved with a dose of 0 . 25 g / kg administered as an intravenous infusion over at least 30 minutes , which may be repeated every six to eight hours .
During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection , monitor fluid and electrolytes , serum osmolarity , and renal , cardiac , and pulmonary function .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if renal , cardiac , or pulmonary status worsens or CNS toxicity develops [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
Reduction of Intraocular Pressure The recommended dosage is 1 . 5 to 2 g / kg as a single dose administered as an intravenous infusion over at least 30 minutes .
When used preoperatively , administer Mannitol Injection 60 to 90 minutes before surgery to achieve maximal reduction of intraocular pressure before operation .
Administration Instructions ( 2 . 1 ) : For intravenous infusion , preferably through a central venous catheter .
Prior to administration , evaluate renal , cardiac and pulmonary status and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances .
Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 2 ) : The dosage , concentration and rate of administration depend on the age , weight and condition of the patient , including fluid requirement , urinary output and concomitant therapy .
Reduction of Intracranial Pressure and Treatment of Cerebral Edema : 0 . 25 g / kg administered every 6 to 8 hours as an intravenous infusion over at least 30 minutes .
Reduction of Intraocular Pressure : 1 . 5 to 2 g / kg administered as a single dose intravenously over at least 30 minutes .
Administer 60 to 90 minutes before surgery to achieve maximal effect .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Mannitol Injection 25 % , USP : 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 25 g / mL ) of mannitol as a clear and colorless solution in a single - dose vial .
Mannitol Injection 25 % , USP : 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 25 g / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mannitol Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to mannitol [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Anuria [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Severe hypovolemia [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Pre - existing severe pulmonary vascular congestion or pulmonary edema [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy .
• Known hypersensitivity to mannitol .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Anuria .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Severe hypovolemia .
( 4 , 5 . 4 ) • Pre - existing severe pulmonary vascular congestion or pulmonary edema .
( 4 , 5 . 5 ) • Active intracranial bleeding except during craniotomy .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , hypotension , and dyspnea resulting in cardiac arrest and death have been reported with Mannitol Injection [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a suspected hypersensitivity reaction develop .
Initiate appropriate therapeutic countermeasures as clinically indicated .
5 . 2 Renal Complications Including Renal Failure Renal complications , including irreversible renal failure , have been reported in patients receiving mannitol .
Reversible , oliguric acute kidney injury has occurred in patients with normal pretreatment renal function who received large intravenous doses of mannitol .
Although the osmotic nephrosis associated with mannitol administration is in principle reversible , osmotic nephrosis in general is known to potentially proceed chronic or even end - stage renal failure .
Monitor renal function closely , including signs of urine output reduction , during mannitol injection .
Patients with pre - existing renal disease , patients with conditions that put them at risk for renal failure , or those receiving potentially nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics , are at increased risk for renal failure following administration of Mannitol Injection .
Avoid concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides ) or other diuretics with Mannitol Injection , if possible [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with oliguric acute kidney injury who subsequently develop anuria while receiving mannitol are at risk of congestive heart failure , pulmonary edema , hypertensive crisis , coma , and death .
During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection for the reduction in intracranial pressure , monitor the patient clinically and laboratory tests for changes in fluid and electrolyte status .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if renal function worsens [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 3 Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity CNS toxicity manifested by , e . g . , confusion , lethargy , coma , has been reported in patients treated with mannitol , some resulting in death , in particular in the presence of impaired renal function CNS toxicity may result from high serum mannitol concentrations , serum hyperosmolarity resulting in intracellular dehydration within CNS , hyponatremia or other disturbances of electrolyte and acid / base balance secondary to mannitol administration [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
At high concentrations , mannitol may cross the blood brain barrier and interfere with the ability of the brain to maintain the pH of the cerebrospinal fluid especially in the presence of acidosis .
In patients with pre - existing compromise of the blood brain barrier , the risk of increasing cerebral edema ( general and focal ) associated with repeated or continued use of Mannitol Injection must be individually weighed against the expected benefits .
A rebound increase of intracranial pressure may occur several hours after the infusion .
Patients with a compromised blood brain barrier are at increased risk .
Concomitant administration of neurotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides ) with Mannitol Injection may potentiate neurotoxicity .
Avoid concomitant use of neurotoxic drugs , if possible [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection for the reduction in intracranial pressure , monitor the patient clinically and laboratory tests for changes in fluid and electrolyte status .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if CNS toxicity develops [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 4 Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances , Hyperosmolarity Depending on dosage and duration , administration of Mannitol Injection may result in hypervolemia leading to or exacerbating existing congestive heart failure .
Accumulation of mannitol due to insufficient renal excretion increases the risk of hypervolemia .
Mannitol - induced osmotic diuresis may cause or worsen dehydration / hypovolemia and hemoconcentration .
Administration of Mannitol Injection may also cause hyperosmolarity [ see DESCRIPTION ( 11 ) ] .
Depending on dosage and duration of administration , electrolyte and acid / base imbalances may also result from transcellular shifts in water and electrolytes , osmotic diuresis , and / or other mechanisms .
Such imbalances may be severe and potentially fatal .
Imbalances that may result from administration of Mannitol Injection include : • Hypernatremia , dehydration , and hemoconcentration • Hyponatremia , which can lead to headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy , coma , cerebral edema , and death .
Acute symptomatic hyponatremic encephalopathy is considered a medical emergency .
• Hypo / hyperkalemia .
The development of electrolyte imbalances ( e . g . , hyperkalemia , hypokalemia ) associated with mannitol administration may result in cardiac adverse reactions in patients receiving drugs that are sensitive to such imbalances ( e . g . , digoxin , agents that may cause QT prolongation , neuromuscular blocking agents ) [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• Other electrolyte disturbances • Metabolic acidosis / alkalosis • Pediatric patients less than two years of age , particularly preterm and term neonates , may be at higher risk for fluid and electrolyte abnormalities following administration of Mannitol Injection due to decreased glomerular filtration rate and limited ability to concentrate urine [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection for the reduction in intracranial pressure , monitor fluid and electrolyte status and discontinue Mannitol Injection if imbalances occur [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
5 . 5 Monitoring / Laboratory Tests During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection for the reduction in intracranial pressure , monitor : • serum osmolarity , serum electrolytes ( including sodium , potassium , calcium and phosphate ) and acid / base balance , • the osmol gap • signs of hypo - or hypervolemia , including urine output • renal , cardiac , and pulmonary function • intracranial pressure • Discontinue Mannitol Injection if renal , cardiac , or pulmonary status worsens or CNS toxicity develops [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Infusion Site Reactions The infusion of hypertonic solutions through a peripheral vein , including Mannitol Injection , may result in peripheral venous irritation , including phlebitis .
Other severe infusion site reactions , such as compartment syndrome and swelling associated with extravasation , can occur with administration of Mannitol Injection [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ] .
Mannitol Injection is preferably administered through a central venous catheter [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Interference with Laboratory Tests High concentrations of mannitol can cause false low results for inorganic phosphorus blood concentrations [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
Mannitol may produce false positive results in tests for blood ethylene glycol concentrations [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions , Including Anaphylaxis : Stop infusion immediately if hypersensitivity reactions develop .
( 5 . 1 ) • Renal Complications Including Renal Failure : Risk factors include pre - existing renal disease , conditions that put patients at risk for renal failure and concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics .
Avoid use of nephrotoxic drugs .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if renal function worsens .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity : Confusion , lethargy , and coma may occur during or after infusion .
Concomitant neurotoxic drugs may potentiate toxicity .
Avoid use of neurotoxic drugs .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if CNS toxicity develops .
( 5 . 3 ) • Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances , Hyperosmolarity : Hypervolemia may exacerbate congestive heart failure ; hyponatremia can lead to encephalopathy ; hypo / hyperkalemia can result in cardiac adverse reactions in sensitive patients .
Discontinue Mannitol Injection if fluid and / or electrolyte imbalances occur .
( 5 . 4 ) • Monitoring / Laboratory Tests : Monitor fluid and electrolytes , serum osmolarity and renal , cardiac , and pulmonary function .
Discontinue if toxicity develops .
( 5 . 5 ) • Infusion Site Reactions : May cause irritation and inflammation , as well as severe reactions ( compartment syndrome ) when associated with extravasation .
( 5 . 6 ) • Interference with Laboratory Tests : High concentrations of mannitol may cause false low results of inorganic phosphorus blood concentrations .
Mannitol may produce false positive results for blood ethylene glycol .
( 5 . 7 , 7 . 6 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use mannitol were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity reactions , renal failure , CNS toxicity , hypo / hypervolemia , hypo / hypernatremia , hypo / hyperkalemia , and infusion site reactions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hospira , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 441 - 4100 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Nephrotoxic Drugs Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , cyclosporine , aminoglycosides ) increases the risk of renal failure following administration of mannitol .
Avoid use of nephrotoxic drugs with Mannitol Injection , if possible [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Diuretics Concomitant administration of other diuretics may potentiate the renal toxicity of mannitol .
Avoid concomitant administration of other diuretics with Mannitol Injection , if possible [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 3 Neurotoxic Drugs Concomitant administration of systemic neurotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides ) with Mannitol Injection may potentiate the CNS toxicity of mannitol .
Avoid use of systemic neurotoxic drugs with Mannitol Injection , if possible [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Drugs Affected by Electrolyte Imbalances The development of electrolyte imbalances ( e . g . , hyperkalemia , hypokalemia ) associated with mannitol administration may result in cardiac adverse reactions in patients receiving drugs that are sensitive to such imbalances ( e . g . , digoxin , drugs that prolong the QT interval , neuromuscular blocking agents ) [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
During and following infusion of Mannitol Injection , monitor serum electrolytes and discontinue Mannitol Injection if cardiac status worsens [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 5 Renally Eliminated Drugs Mannitol therapy may increase the elimination , and decrease the effectiveness of treatment with , drugs that undergo significant renal elimination .
Concomitant administration of mannitol with lithium may initially increase the elimination of lithium but may also increase the risk of lithium toxicity if patients develop hypovolemia or renal impairment .
In patients receiving lithium , consider holding lithium doses during treatment with Mannitol Injection .
In patients requiring concomitant administration of lithium and Mannitol Injection , frequently monitor serum lithium concentrations and for signs of lithium toxicity .
7 . 6 Interference with Laboratory Tests High concentrations of mannitol can cause false low results for inorganic phosphorus blood concentrations when an assay based on the conversion of phosphate ( orthophosphate ) to the phosphomolybdate complex is used .
Mannitol may produce false positive results in tests for blood ethylene glycol concentrations in which mannitol is initially oxidized to an aldehyde .
• Nephrotoxic Drugs and Diuretics : May increase the risk of renal failure ; avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) • Neurotoxic Drugs : May potentiate CNS toxicity of mannitol ; avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 3 ) • Drugs Affected by Electrolyte Imbalances : May result in cardiac adverse reactions ; monitor serum electrolytes and discontinue Mannitol Injection if cardiac status worsens .
( 7 . 4 ) • Renally Eliminated Drugs : Concomitant use may decrease the effectiveness of agents that undergo significant renal elimination .
However , concomitant use of mannitol and lithium may increase risk of lithium toxicity .
If concomitant use is necessary , frequently monitor lithium concentrations and for signs of toxicity .
( 7 . 5 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 3 / 2020 8 USE IN SPECIFIC pOPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available case report data with mannitol over decades of use have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Mannitol crosses the placenta and may cause fluid shifts that could potentially result in adverse effects in the fetus ( see DATA ) .
No adverse developmental effects from mannitol were reported in published animal studies ; however , fluid shifts occurred in fetal ewes in response to maternal infusion of mannitol .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published literature reports the presence of mannitol in amniotic fluid when mannitol is administered to pregnant women during the third trimester of pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of mannitol in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Mannitol Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Mannitol Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Mannitol Injection is approved for use in the pediatric population for the reduction of intracranial and intraocular pressure .
Studies have not defined the optimal dose of Mannitol Injection in the pediatric population .
The safety profile for mannitol use in pediatric patients is similar to adults at dosages described in labeling .
However , pediatric patients less than two years of age , particularly preterm and term neonates , may be at higher risk for fluid and electrolyte abnormalities following administration of Mannitol Injection due to decreased glomerular filtration rate and limited ability to concentrate urine [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Mannitol is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in elderly patients with impaired renal function .
Evaluate the renal , cardiac and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances prior to administration of Mannitol Injection [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with pre - existing renal disease , patients with conditions that put them at high risk for renal failure , or those receiving potentially nephrotoxic drugs or other diuretics , are at increased risk of renal failure with administration of mannitol .
Evaluate the renal , cardiac , and pulmonary status of the patient and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances prior to administration of Mannitol Injection [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 ) ] .
9 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of overdose with Mannitol Injection include renal failure and acute kidney injury , hypo / hypervolemia , hyperosmolarity and electrolyte imbalances , CNS toxicity ( e . g . , coma , seizures ) , some of which can be fatal [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Management of overdosage with Mannitol Injection is symptomatic and supportive .
Discontinue the infusion and institute appropriate corrective measures with particular attention to renal , cardiac , and pulmonary systems .
Correct fluid and electrolyte imbalances .
Mannitol Injection is dialyzable ( hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis ) , hemodialysis may increase mannitol elimination .
11 DESCRIPTION Mannitol Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of mannitol in water for injection available in a fliptop vial for intravenous administration as an osmotic diuretic .
The content and characteristics are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent , or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only as a single - dose injection .
Mannitol , USP is chemically designated D - mannitol ( C6H14O6 ) , a white crystalline powder or free - flowing granules freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mannitol , when administered intravenously , exerts its osmotic diuretic effect as a solute of relatively small molecular size largely confined to the extracellular space .
Mannitol hinders tubular reabsorption of water and enhances excretion of sodium and chloride by elevating the osmolarity of the glomerular filtrate .
This increase in extracellular osmolarity affected by the intravenous administration of mannitol will induce the movement of intracellular water to the extracellular and vascular spaces .
This action underlies the role of mannitol in reducing intracranial pressure , intracranial edema , and intraocular pressure .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Mannitol distributes largely to the extracellular space within 20 to 40 minutes after intravenous administration .
The volume of distribution of mannitol is approximately 17 L in adults .
Elimination In subjects with normal renal function , the total clearance is 87 to 109 mL / minute .
The elimination half - life of mannitol is 0 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours Metabolism Only a relatively small amount of the mannitol dose is metabolized after intravenous administration to healthy subjects .
Excretion Mannitol is eliminated primarily via the kidneys in unchanged form .
Mannitol is filtered by the glomeruli , exhibits less than 10 % of tubular reabsorption , and is not secreted by tubular cells .
Following intravenous administration , approximately 80 % of an administered dose of mannitol is estimated to be excreted in the urine in 3 hours with lesser amounts thereafter .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment , the elimination half - life of mannitol is prolonged .
In a published study , in patients with renal impairment including acute renal failure and end stage renal failure , the elimination half - life of mannitol was estimated at about 36 hours , based on serum osmolarity .
In patients with renal impairment on dialysis , the elimination half - life of mannitol was reduced to 6 and 21 hours during hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis , respectively [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) , OVERDOSAGE ( 10 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mannitol Injection 25 % , USP is available as 12 . 5 g / 50 mL ( 0 . 25 g / mL ) of mannitol in a single - dose vial .
Supplied as a tray of 25 vials ( NDC 0409 - 4031 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0409 - 4031 - 01 Supplied in a tray of 25 NDC 0404 - 9905 - 50 1 single dose vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 0409 - 4031 - 16 ) 25 % 12 . 5 mg / 50 mL ( 0 . 25 mg / mL ) 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients or caregivers of the following risks of Mannitol Injection : Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] Renal Complications Including Renal Failure [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
CNS Toxicity [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] Fluid and Electrolyte Imbalances , Hyperosmolarity [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] Infusion Site Reactions [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA LAB - 1227 - 2 . 0 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
