1 . 1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular ( CV ) events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarction .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including losartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in Black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension , except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
1 . 2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy , but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients .
[ See Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) . ]
2 . 1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 50 / 12 . 5 ( losartan 50 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg ) once daily .
The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100 / 25 ( losartan 100 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg ) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 once daily .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 once daily .
Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 12 . 5 ( losartan 100 mg / hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg ) once daily .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 once daily .
Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily , or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen , on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 once daily , reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response .
Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 and , if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy , increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 once daily .
2 . 2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium , initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 .
If additional blood pressure reduction is needed , increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 12 . 5 , followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 .
For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 50 / 12 . 5 are yellow , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets , debossed with “ HH ” on one side and “ 211 ” on the other side .
• Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 100 / 12 . 5 are white to off - white , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets , debossed with “ HH ” on one side and “ 213 ” on the other side .
• Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP 100 / 25 are yellow , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets , debossed with “ HH ” on one side and “ 212 ” on the other side .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated : • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
• In patients with anuria • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Monitor renal function periodically in these patients .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
5 . 5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double - blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide , the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia ( serum potassium < 3 . 5 mEq / L ) was 6 . 7 % versus 3 . 5 % for placebo ; the incidence of hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 5 . 7 mEq / L ) was 0 . 4 % versus 0 % for placebo .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia , hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain losartan which can cause hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Concomitant use of other drugs that may increase serum potassium may lead to hyperkalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Because losartan decreases uric acid , losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic - induced hyperuricemia .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Monitor calcium levels .
5 . 6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
5 . 7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Losartan potassium - hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy .
Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2 . 8 % and 2 . 3 % of patients treated with the combination and placebo , respectively .
In these double - blind controlled clinical trials , adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2 % of subjects treated with losartan - hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were : back pain ( 2 . 1 % vs 0 . 6 % ) , dizziness ( 5 . 7 % vs 2 . 9 % ) , and upper respiratory infection ( 6 . 1 % vs 4 . 6 % ) .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and / or the individual components : Blood and the lymphatic system disorders : Anemia , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , agranulocytosis .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Anorexia , hyperglycemia , hyperuricemia , electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia .
Psychiatric disorders : Insomnia , restlessness .
Nervous system disorders : Dysgeusia , headache , migraine , paraesthesias .
Eye disorders : Xanthopsia , transient blurred vision .
Cardiac disorders : Palpitation , tachycardia .
Vascular disorders : Dose - related orthostatic effects , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis , cutaneous vasculitis ) .
Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : Nasal congestion .
Gastrointestinal disorders : Dyspepsia , abdominal pain , gastric irritation , cramping , nausea , vomiting , pancreatitis , sialoadenitis .
Hepato - biliary disorders : Jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Rash , pruritus , purpura , toxic epidermal necrolysis , urticaria , photosensitivity , cutaneous lupus erythematosus .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Muscle cramps , muscle spasm .
Renal and urinary disorders : Glycosuria , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis , renal failure .
Reproductive system and breast disorders : Erectile dysfunction / impotence .
General disorders and administration site conditions : Chest pain , malaise , weakness .
Investigations : Liver function abnormalities .
Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE - inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE - inhibitor therapy .
Two prospective , parallel - group , double - blind , randomized , controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE - inhibitor therapy .
Patients who had typical ACE - inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril , whose cough disappeared on placebo , were randomized to losartan 50 mg , lisinopril 20 mg , or either placebo ( one study , n = 97 ) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 135 ) .
The double - blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks .
The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below .
Table 1 : Study 1 * HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25 % 17 % 69 % Study 2 † Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35 % 29 % 62 % * Demographics = ( 89 % Caucasian , 64 % female ) † Demographics = ( 90 % Caucasian , 51 % female ) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy , in a population that all had cough associated with ACE - inhibitor therapy , is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy .
Cases of cough , including positive re - challenges , have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Digestive : Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Angioedema , including swelling of the larynx and glottis , causing airway obstruction and / or swelling of the face , lips , pharynx , and / or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan ; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors .
Vasculitis , including Henoch - Schönlein purpura , has been reported with losartan .
Anaphylactic reactions have been reported .
Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis .
Skin : Erythroderma .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
7 . 1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients .
7 . 2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics .
Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists ( including losartan ) may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including losartan , may be attenuated by NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent including a selective COX - 2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents including selective COX - 2 inhibitors are used concomitantly , observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
In patients receiving diuretic therapy , coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers , including losartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide , losartan , and NSAID therapy .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , syncope , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes ( VA NEPHRON - D ) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes , elevated urinary - albumin - to - creatinine ratio , and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate ( GFR 30 to 89 . 9 mL / min ) , randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2 . 2 years .
Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR , end - stage renal disease , or death , but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function , and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : Antidiabetic drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins — Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent , respectively .
Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Losartan : Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : oligohydramnios , reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , if oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and replacing renal function .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazides can cross the placenta , and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma .
Hydrochlorothiazide , like other diuretics , can cause placental hypoperfusion .
It accumulates in the amniotic fluid , with reported concentrations up to 19 times higher than in umbilical vein plasma .
Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia .
Since they do not alter the course of pre - eclampsia , these drugs should not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women .
The use of hydrochlorothiazide for other indications in pregnancy should be avoided .
Data Animal Data There was no evidence of teratogenicity in rats or rabbits treated with a maximum losartan potassium dose of 10 mg / kg / day in combination with 2 . 5 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide .
At these dosages , respective exposures ( AUCs ) of losartan , its active metabolite , and hydrochlorothiazide in rabbits were approximately 5 , 1 . 5 , and 1 . 0 times those achieved in humans with 100 mg losartan in combination with 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
AUC values for losartan , its active metabolite and hydrochlorothiazide , extrapolated from data obtained with losartan administered to rats at a dose of 50 mg / kg / day in combination with 12 . 5 mg / kg / day of hydrochlorothiazide , were approximately 6 , 2 , and 2 times greater than those achieved in humans with 100 mg of losartan in combination with 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Fetal toxicity in rats , as evidenced by a slight increase in supernumerary ribs , was observed when females were treated prior to and throughout gestation with 10 mg / kg / day losartan in combination with 2 . 5 mg / kg / day hydrochlorothiazide .
As also observed in studies with losartan alone , adverse fetal and neonatal effects , including decreased body weight , renal toxicity , and mortality , occurred when pregnant rats were treated during late gestation and / or lactation with 50 mg / kg / day losartan in combination with 12 . 5 mg / kg / day hydrochlorothiazide .
Respective AUCs for losartan , its active metabolite and hydrochlorothiazide at these dosages in rats were approximately 35 , 10 and 10 times greater than those achieved in humans with the administration of 100 mg of losartan in combination with 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide .
When hydrochlorothiazide was administered without losartan to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis , at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether losartan is excreted in human milk , but significant levels of losartan and its active metabolite were shown to be present in rat milk .
Thiazides appear in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In a controlled clinical study for the reduction in the combined risk of cardiovascular death , stroke and myocardial infarction in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy , 2857 patients ( 62 % ) were 65 years and over , while 808 patients ( 18 % ) were 75 years and over .
In an effort to control blood pressure in this study , patients were coadministered losartan and hydrochlorothiazide 74 % of the total time they were on study drug .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non - elderly patients for both the losartan - hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Race In the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension ( LIFE ) study , Black patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy treated with atenolol had a lower risk of stroke , the primary composite endpoint , as compared with Black patients treated with losartan ( both cotreated with hydrochlorothiazide in the majority of patients ) .
In the subgroup of Black patients ( n = 533 , 6 % of the LIFE study patients ) , there were 29 primary endpoints among 263 patients on atenolol ( 11 % , 26 per 1000 patient - years ) and 46 primary endpoints among 270 patients ( 17 % , 42 per 1000 patient - years ) on losartan .
This finding could not be explained on the basis of differences in the populations other than race or on any imbalances between treatment groups .
In addition , blood pressure reductions in both treatment groups were consistent between Black and non - Black patients .
Given the difficulty in interpreting subset differences in large trials , it cannot be known whether the observed difference is the result of chance .
However , the LIFE study provides no evidence that the benefits of losartan on reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy apply to Black patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Initiation of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not recommended for patients with hepatic impairment because the appropriate starting dose of losartan , 25 mg , is not available .
8 . 8 Renal Impairment Changes in renal function have been reported in susceptible individuals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) have not been established .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , 50 / 12 . 5 mg , losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , 100 / 12 . 5 mg and losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , 100 / 25 mg combine an angiotensin II receptor blocker acting on the AT1 receptor subtype and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium , a non - peptide molecule , is chemically described as 2 - butyl - 4 - chloro - 1 - [ p - ( o - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - ylphenyl ) benzyl ] imidazole - 5 - methanol monopotassium salt .
Its empirical formula is C22H22ClKN6O , and its structural formula is : 73c71ed3 - figure - 01 Losartan potassium is a white to off - white free - flowing crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 461 . 01 .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in alcohols , and slightly soluble in common organic solvents , such as acetonitrile and methyl ethyl ketone .
Oxidation of the 5 - hydroxymethyl group on the imidazole ring results in the active metabolite of losartan .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : 73c71ed3 - figure - 02 Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 , which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are available for oral administration in three tablet combinations of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 mg contain 50 mg of losartan potassium and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 12 . 5 mg contain 100 mg of losartan potassium and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 mg contain 100 mg of losartan potassium and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide .
Inactive ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized starch , magnesium stearate , colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , and titanium dioxide .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 mg and 100 / 25 mg also contain D & C yellow No . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C blue No . 1 / brilliant blue FCF aluminum lake .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 / 12 . 5 mg contain 4 . 24 mg ( 0 . 108 mEq ) of potassium , losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 12 . 5 mg contain 8 . 48 mg ( 0 . 216 mEq ) of potassium , and losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 / 25 mg contain 8 . 48 mg ( 0 . 216 mEq ) of potassium .
Losartan Potassium Significant lethality was observed in mice and rats after oral administration of 1000 mg / kg and 2000 mg / kg , respectively , about 44 and 170 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
Limited data are available in regard to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Neither losartan nor its active metabolite can be removed by hemodialysis .
Hydrochlorothiazide The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are supplied as a film - coated tablet .
Losartan / Hydrochlorothiazide Color Shape Engraving NDC 43547 - xxx - xx Bottle / 30 Bottle / 90 Bottle / 1000 50 / 12 . 5 mg yellow capsule - shaped HH / 211 423 - 03 423 - 09 423 - 11 100 / 12 . 5 mg white to off - white capsule - shaped HH / 213 425 - 03 425 - 09 425 - 11 100 / 25 mg yellow capsule - shaped HH / 212 424 - 03 424 - 09 424 - 11 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
