For Rectal Administration Rx Only DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid designed chemically as pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11β ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each suppository for rectal administration contains hydrocortisone acetate , USP 25 mg in a specially blended hydrogenated vegetable base .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 % of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post - irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients having a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate or any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use hydrocortisone acetate suppositories unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , hydrocortisone acetate should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenesis No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
Pregnancy Category C In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk of the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocortisone acetate suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories ; burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection .
To report an adverse event , please contact Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 844 - 221 - 7294 .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR RECTAL ADMINISTRATION Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories .
Hold suppository upright and carefully separate tabs at top opening and pull downward from the pointed end to expose the suppository .
Remove the suppository from the pocket .
Avoid excessive handling of suppository which is designed to melt at body temperature .
Insert one suppository rectally , pointed end first .
Insert one suppository in the rectum twice daily , morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times a day or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , the recommended duration of therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 6331 NDC : 50090 - 6331 - 0 12 SUPPOSITORY in a CARTON Rx Only Manufactured for : Westminster Pharmaceuticals , LLC Nashville , TN 37217 Rev . 12 / 19 HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
