Active ingredient – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct Lidocaine 4 % Purpose – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct Topical anesthetic Use – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct for the temporary relief of pain Warnings – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct For external use only Do not use – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct • • on puncture wounds , cuts , irritated or swollen skin • • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or with other topical analgesics at the same time • • with a heating pad or apply local heat to the area of use When using this product – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct • • use only as directed • • do not bandage tightly • • avoid contact with the eyes • • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children or pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct • • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • • redness or irritation develops • • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
– Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • clean and dry affected area • • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • • use 1 patch at a time and not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years or age : consult a doctor Inactive ingredients – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct aluminum glycinate , aluminum hydroxide , cellulose gum , glycerin , methyl acrylate / 2 - ethylhexyl acrylate copolymer , methylparaben , nonoxynol - 30 , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , silica , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , urea , water Active ingredient – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct Lidocaine 4 % Purpose – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct Topical Anesthetic Use – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct temporarily relieves minor pain Warnings – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct For external use only Do not use – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct • • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or on cut , irritated or swollen skin • • on puncture wounds • • for more than one week without consulting a doctor When using this product – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct • • use only as directed .
Read and follow all directions and warnings on this label .
• • do not allow contact with the eyes • • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children or pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct • • condition worsens • • redness is present • • irritation develops • • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast feeding , – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
– Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct Adults and children over 12 years : • • clean and dry affected area • • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • • use 1 patch for up to 12 hours children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct aluminum glycinate , aluminum hydroxide , cellulose gum , glycerin , methyl acrylate / 2 - ethylhexyl acrylate copolymer , methylparaben , nonoxynol - 30 , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , silica , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , urea , water Package / Label Principal Display Panel – Lidocaine Patch US 1 ct MAX STRENGTH Aspercreme ® with 4 % LIDOCAINE PAIN RELIEF PATCH NUMBS AWAY PAIN FAST ACTING TARGETS NERVES FLEXIBLE FABRIC # 1 LIDOCAINE BRAND * PATCH FRAGRANCE - FREE Contains 1 Patch 3 - 15 / 16 ” x 5 - 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) Pain Relieving Ointment on a Breathable Adhesive Pad * Among OTC topical analgesics .
CHATTEM ® A SANOFI COMPANY Dist .
by Chattem , Inc . , a Sanofi Company P . O . Box 2219 , Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2020 www . aspercreme . com Made in Japan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel – Lidocaine Patch Singles US 1 ct MAX STRENGTH LIDOCAINE NOW WITH BETTER ADHESION * ODOR FREE Aspercreme ® LIDOCAINE PATCH THE NUMBER ONE ODOR FREE BRAND NUMBS AWAY PAIN • • Powerful Pain Relief • • Fast Acting • • Non Irritating * Compared to previous formulation of the Aspercreme ® with Lidocaine Patch .
Contains 1 Patch 3 - 15 / 16 ” x 5 - 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) Pain Relieving Ointment on a Breathable Adhesive Pad 4 % Lidocaine SANOFI Dist .
by Chattem , Inc . , a Sanofi Company P . O . Box 2219 Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2020 www . aspercreme . com Made in Japan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
