Rx only DESCRIPTION Nystatin Ointment USP , for topical use only , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram , in a polyethylene and mineral oil base .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is an antifungal antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
It probably acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is a polyene antibiotic that is obtained from Streptomyces noursei , and is the first well tolerated antifungal antibiotic of dependable efficacy for the treatment of cutaneous , oral and intestinal infections caused by Candida [ Monilia ] albicans and other Candida species .
It exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria .
Nystatin provides specific therapy for all localized forms of candidiasis .
Symptomatic relief is rapid , often occurring within 24 to 72 hours after the initiation of treatment .
Cure is effected both clinically and mycologically in most cases of localized candidiasis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Ointment is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida [ Monilia ] albicans and other Candida species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Ointment is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Should a reaction of hypersensitivity occur the drug should be immediately withdrawn and appropriate measures taken .
This preparation is not for ophthalmic use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually non - toxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants , even on prolonged administration .
If irritation on topical application should occur , discontinue medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Ointment should be applied liberally to affected areas twice a day or as indicated until healing is complete .
Nystatin cream is usually preferred to nystatin ointment in candidiasis involving intertriginous areas ; very moist lesions , however , are best treated with nystatin topical powder .
This preparation does not stain skin or mucous membranes and provides a simple , convenient means of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) is a yellow ointment available as follows : NDC 42254 - 284 - 15 15 gram tube Store at controlled room temperature 15 째 - 30 째 C ( 59 째 - 86 째 F ) .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 I20715H R08 / 11 # 21 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP .
Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
