Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Uses • temporarily relieves pain associated with the following mouth and gum irritations : • toothache • sore gums • canker sores • braces • minor dental procedures • dentures Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a rare but serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not exceed recommended dosage • do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor / dentist Stop use and ask a doctor if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness lasts or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • to open tube , cut tip of the tube on score mark with scissors adults and children 2 years of age and over apply a pea - size amount to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a doctor / dentist children under 12 years of age adult supervision should be given in the use of this product children under 2 years of age do not use • for denture irritation : • apply thin layer to the affected area • do not reinsert dental work until irritation / pain is relieved • rinse mouth well before reinserting Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not refrigerate Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , carbomer 934 P , D & C yellow no . 10 , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , glycerin , methylparaben , natural flavor , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , saccharin Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 594 - 0673 weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST Distributed by : Foundation Consumer Brands , LLC Pittsburgh , PA 15212 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 9 g Tube Blister Pack gel Anbesol ® Oral Pain Reliever / Benzocaine 20 % MAXIMUM STRENGTH Instant Pain Relief • ✓ Toothaches • ✓ Gum Pain • ✓ Canker Sores • ✓ Denture Pain NET WT 0 . 33 OZ ( 9 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
