sunmark Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % USP Active Ingredient Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % U . S . P . by volume Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
For rubbing massage and as an external stimulant .
Warnings For External use only .
USE IN WELL VENTILATED AREA .
FUMES MAY BE HARMFUL .
Do not use in the eyes or apply over a large area of the body when used as an antiseptic .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns , consult a doctor .
When using this product : • Do not apply to irritated skin and avoid getting into eyes or mucous membranes .
Stop use and consult a doctor • if the condition persists or gets worse .
Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
• Discontinue use if excessive irritation of the skin develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
In case of eye contact , flush eyes with running water for 15 minutes .
Directions For antiseptic use : Apply a small amount of this product to the affected area 1 to 3 times daily .
May be covered with sterile bandage .
If bandaged let dry first .
For rubbing or massage use : Apply compound externally on body until liquid has been absorbed or has been evaporated .
Inactive Ingredient : Purified Water Other Information : FLAMMABLE : Keep away from spark , heat and flame .
NOTICE : This product does not contain eithyl or grain alcohol and is not sold as a substitute for preparations containing ethyl or grain alcohol .
sunmark Isopropyl Rubbing Alcohol 70 % USP First aid antiseptic to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns For rubbing , massaging and sponge baths .
WARNING : FLAMMABLE , KEEP AWAY FROM SPARK , HEAT OR FLAME Distributed by McKesson , One Post Street , San Francisco , CA 94104 Money Back Guarantee 128 FL OZ ( 1 GAL ) 3 . 8 L sunmark Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % USP 128 oz ( 49348 - 030 - 40 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
