Drug Facts Active ingredient Magnesium Hydroxide 400 mg per teaspoon ( 5 mL ) Purpose Antacid / Saline Laxative Use As an antacid : helps relieve acid ingestion , heartburn and sour stomach .
As a laxative : For the temporary relief of occasional constipation .
Bowel movement is generally produced in 1 . 2 to 6 hours .
WARNINGS Ask a doctor before use if you have .
Abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , kidney desease , are on a magnesium restricted diet , a sudden change in bowel habits lasting longer than 14 days , if you are taking prescription drugs .
Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor .
If you have rectal bleeding or have no bowel movement after using this product .
this could be signs of a serious codition , if you need to use a laxative for more than one week .
Frequent or prolonged use may result in the dependence on laxatives .
When using this product .
As an antacid , do not take more than the maximum recomended daily dose in a 24 hr .
period or take the maximum dose for more than two weeks , except under the advise of a doctor .
May have laxative effect .
If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In the case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions ( Shake well before use ) As an antacid : Adults and children 12 yrs .
of age and older : 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls with a little water , or as directed by a doctor .
As a laxative : Adults and children 12 yrs .
of age and older : 1 to 4 tablespoonfuls followed by a full 8 oz .
glass of water .
Children 6 thru 11 yr .
of age : 1 to 2 tablespoonfuls followed by a full 8 oz .
glass of water .
children 2 thru 5 yrs .
of age : 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls followed by a full 8 oz .
glass of water .
Children under 2 yrs .
of age : consult a doctor before use .
Other information acid neutralizing capacilty : 10 . 0 mEq per teaspoon .
keep tightly closed and avoid freezing .
Inactive ingredient .
Purified water Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
