Drug Facts Active Ingredient Povidone - Iodine 0 . 5 % ( 0 . 05 % available iodine ) Purpose Oral Antiseptic Use For preparation of the oral mucosa prior to injection , dental surgery or tooth extraction .
Warnings Do not use this product • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist of doctor • in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a dentist or doctor • if you are allergic to povidone - iodine or any other ingredients in this product • if you have any thyroid conditions Stop use and consult a doctor if Symptoms do not improve in 7 days .
Irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens .
Swelling , rash or fever develops .
When using this product do not Get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
If iritation persists , consult a doctor .
Swallow .
Use with hydrogen peroxide .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use full strength .
• Apply 10 to 20 milliliters of solution to the operative site .
Instruct the patient to rinse for 30 seconds and then spit out .
• Wait 2 minutes , and apply another 10 to 20 milliliters of solution to the operative site .
Instruct the patient to rinse again for 30 seconds and then spit out .
• With a standard syringe and a blunt , angulated needle , irrigate the operative site and the surrounding gingival mucosa for 1 minute with 10 to 20 milliliters of the solution .
Instruct the patient to spit out the solution after the irrigation procedure .
Other information • Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; Excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
• May stain clothing or dental work .
• Avoid contact with jewelry , especially silver .
Inactive Ingredients Citric acid , flavor , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , saccarin sodium , sodium hydroxide .
Do not use this product • For more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
• If you are allergic to povidone - iodine or any other ingredients in this product .
• If you have any thyroid conditions .
If pregnant or breast - feeding Ask a health professional before use .
Purdue Oral Rinse Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
