BOXED WARNING WARNING : Because ketoconazole tablets have been associated with serious adverse reactions ( see WARNINGS section ) , ketoconazole tablets are not indicated for treatment of onychomycosis , cutaneous dermatophyte infections , or Candida infections .
Ketoconazole tablets should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks .
Hepatotoxicity Serious hepatotoxicity , including cases with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation has occurred with the use of oral ketoconazole .
Some patients had no obvious risk factors for liver disease .
Patients receiving this drug should be informed by the physician of the risk and should be closely monitored .
See WARNINGS section .
QT Prolongation and Drug Interactions Leading to QT Prolongation Coadministration of the following drugs with ketoconazole is contraindicated : dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , cisapride , methadone , disopyramide , dronedarone , ranolazine .
Ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs and may prolong QT intervals , sometimes resulting in life - threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions sections .
DESCRIPTION Ketoconazole , USP is a synthetic broad - spectrum antifungal agent .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 200 mg ketoconazole , USP base .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
Ketoconazole is ( ± ) cis - 1 - Acetyl - 4 - [ p - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy ] phenyl ] - piperazine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 26 H 28 Cl 2 N 4 O 4 M . W . 531 . 44 Ketoconazole , USP is a white or almost white powder that is soluble in acids .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ketoconazole is a weak dibasic agent and thus requires acidity for dissolution and absorption .
Mean peak plasma concentrations of approximately 3 . 5 mcg / mL are reached within 1 to 2 hours , following oral administration of a single 200 mg dose taken with a meal .
Oral bioavailability is maximal when the tablets are taken with a meal .
Absorption of ketoconazole tablets is reduced in subjects with reduced gastric acidity , such as subjects taking medications known as acid neutralizing medicines ( e . g . aluminum hydroxide ) and gastric acid secretion suppressors ( e . g . H 2 - receptor antagonists , proton pump inhibitors ) or subjects with achlorhydria caused by certain diseases ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Absorption of ketoconazole under fasted conditions in these subjects is increased when ketoconazole tablets are administered with an acidic beverage ( such as non - diet cola ) .
After pretreatment with omeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor , the bioavailability of a single 200 mg dose of ketoconazole under fasted conditions was decreased to 17 % of the bioavailability of ketoconazole administered alone .
When ketoconazole was administered with non - diet cola after pretreatment with omeprazole , the bioavailability was 65 % of that after administration of ketoconazole alone .
Distribution In vitro , the plasma protein binding is about 99 % mainly to the albumin fraction .
Ketoconazole is widely distributed into tissues ; however , only a negligible proportion reaches the cerebrospinal fluid .
Metabolism Following absorption from the gastrointestinal tract , ketoconazole tablets are converted into several inactive metabolites .
In vitro studies have shown that CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in the metabolism of ketoconazole .
The major identified metabolic pathways are oxidation and degradation of the imidazole and piperazine rings , by hepatic microsomal enzymes .
In addition , oxidative O - dealkylation and aromatic hydroxylation does occur .
Ketoconazole has not been demonstrated to induce its own metabolism .
Elimination Elimination from plasma is biphasic with a half - life of 2 hours during the first 10 hours and 8 hours thereafter .
Approximately 13 % of the dose is excreted in the urine , of which 2 to 4 % is unchanged drug .
The major route of excretion is through the bile into the intestinal tract with about 57 % being excreted in the feces .
Special Populations Patients with Hepatic or Renal Impairment In patients with hepatic or renal impairment , the overall pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole was not significantly different when compared with healthy subjects .
Pediatric Patients Limited pharmacokinetic data are available on the use of ketoconazole tablets in the pediatric population .
Measurable ketoconazole plasma concentrations have been observed in pre - term infants ( single or daily doses of 3 to 10 mg / kg ) and in pediatric patients 5 months of age and older ( daily doses of 3 to 13 mg / kg ) when the drug was administered as a suspension , tablet or crushed tablet .
Limited data suggest that absorption may be greater when the drug is administered as a suspension compared to a crushed tablet .
Conditions that raise gastric pH may lower or prevent absorption ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Maximum plasma concentrations occurred 1 to 2 hours after dosing and were in the same general range as those seen in adults who received a 200 to 400 mg dose .
Electrocardiogram Pre - clinical electrophysiological studies have shown that ketoconazole inhibits the rapidly activating component of the cardiac delayed rectifier potassium current , prolongs the action potential duration , and may prolong the QT C interval .
Data from some clinical PK / PD studies and drug interaction studies suggest that oral dosing with ketoconazole at 200 mg twice daily for 3 to 7 days can result in an increase of the QT C interval : a mean maximum increase of about 6 to 12 msec was seen at ketoconazole peak plasma concentrations about 1 to 4 hours after ketoconazole administration .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ketoconazole blocks the synthesis of ergosterol , a key component of the fungal cell membrane , through the inhibition of cytochrome P - 450 dependent enzyme lanosterol 14α - demethylase responsible for the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol in the fungal cell membrane .
This results in an accumulation of methylated sterol precursors and a depletion of ergosterol within the cell membrane thus weakening the structure and function of the fungal cell membrane .
Activity In Vitro & In Vivo Ketoconazole tablets are active against clinical infections with Blastomyces dermatitidis , Coccidioides immitis , Histoplasma capsulatum , Paracoccidioides brasiliensis .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Ketoconazole tablets are not indicated for treatment of onychomycosis , cutaneous dermatophyte infections , or Candida infections .
Ketoconazole tablets should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks .
Ketoconazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following systemic fungal infections in patients who have failed or who are intolerant to other therapies : blastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , histoplasmosis , chromomycosis , and paracoccidioidomycosis .
Ketoconazole tablets should not be used for fungal meningitis because it penetrates poorly into the cerebrospinal fluid .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Drug Interactions Coadministration of a number of CYP3A4 substrates such as dofetilide , quinidine cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets .
Coadministration with ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs and may increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects to such an extent that a potentially serious adverse reaction may occur .
For example , increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and sometimes resulting in life - threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes , a potentially fatal arrhythmia ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Additionally , the following other drugs are contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets : methadone , disopyramide , dronedarone , ergot alkaloids such as dihydroergotamine , ergometrine , ergotamine , methylergometrine , irinotecan , lurasidone , oral midazolam , alprazolam , triazolam , felodipine , nisoldipine , ranolazine , tolvaptan , eplerenone , lovastatin , simvastatin and colchicine ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Enhanced Sedation Coadministration of ketoconazole tablets with oral midazolam , oral triazolam or alprazolam has resulted in elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs .
This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects , especially with repeated dosing or chronic administration of these agents .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with oral triazolam , oral midazolam or alprazolam is contraindicated ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Myopathy Coadministration of CYP3A4 metabolized HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin , and lovastatin is contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Ergotism Concomitant administration of ergot alkaloids such as dihydroergotamine and ergotamine with ketoconazole tablets is contraindicated ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Liver Disease The use of ketoconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with acute or chronic liver disease .
Hypersensitivity Ketoconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Because of the serious adverse reactions that have been reported in association with ketoconazole , including fatal hepatotoxicity , ketoconazole tablets are not indicated for treatment of onychomycosis , cutaneous dermatophyte infections , or Candida infections .
Ketoconazole tablets should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks Hepatotoxicity Serious hepatotoxicity , including cases with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation , has occurred with the use of oral ketoconazole .
Some patients had no obvious risk factors for liver disease .
Serious hepatotoxicity was reported both by patients receiving high doses for short treatment durations and by patients receiving low doses for long durations The hepatic injury has usually , but not always , been reversible upon discontinuation of ketoconazole tablets treatment .
Cases of hepatitis have been reported in children .
At baseline , obtain laboratory tests ( such as SGGT , alkaline phosphatase , ALT , AST , total bilirubin ( TBL ) , Prothrombin Time ( PT ) , International Normalization Ratio ( INR ) , and testing for viral hepatitides ) .
Patients should be advised against alcohol consumption while on treatment .
If possible , use of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs should be avoided in patients receiving ketoconazole tablets .
Prompt recognition of liver injury is essential .
During the course of treatment , serum ALT should be monitored weekly for the duration of treatment .
If ALT values increase to a level above the upper limit of normal or 30 percent above baseline , or if the patient develops symptoms , ketoconazole treatment should be interrupted and a full set of liver tests should be obtained .
Liver tests should be repeated to ensure normalization of values .
Hepatotoxicity has been reported with restarting oral ketoconazole ( rechallenge ) .
If it is decided to restart oral ketoconazole , monitor the patient frequently to detect any recurring liver injury from the drug .
QT Prolongation and Drug Interactions Leading to QT Prolongation Ketoconazole can prolong the QT interval .
Coadministration of the following drugs with ketoconazole is contraindicated : dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , cisapride , methadone , disopyramide , dronedarone , ranolazine .
Ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs which may prolong the QT interval , sometimes resulting in life - threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes Adrenal Insufficiency Ketoconazole tablets decrease adrenal corticosteroid secretion at doses of 400 mg and higher .
This effect is not shared with other azoles .
The recommended dose of 200 mg to 400 mg daily should not be exceeded .
Adrenal function should be monitored in patients with adrenal insufficiency or with borderline adrenal function and in patients under prolonged periods of stress ( major surgery , intensive care , etc . ) .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Unapproved Uses Ketoconazole has been used in high doses for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer and for Cushing ' s syndrome when other treatment options have failed .
The safety and effectiveness of ketoconazole have not been established in these settings and the use of ketoconazole for these indications is not approved by FDA .
In a clinical trial involving 350 patients with metastatic prostatic cancer , eleven deaths were reported within two weeks of starting treatment with high doses of ketoconazole tablets ( 1200 mg / day ) .
It is not possible to ascertain from the information available whether death was related to ketoconazole therapy or adrenal insufficiency in these patients with serious underlying disease .
Hepatoxicity , including fatal cases and cases requiring liver transplantation , have been reported in patients who received ketoconazole for treatment of onychomycosis , cutaneous dermatophyte infections , or Candida infections .
Hypersensitivity Anaphylaxis has been reported after the first dose .
Several cases of hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria have also been reported .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Ketoconazole tablets have been demonstrated to lower serum testosterone .
Once therapy with ketoconazole has been discontinued , serum testosterone levels return to baseline values .
Testosterone levels are impaired with doses of 800 mg per day and abolished by 1600 mg per day .
Clinical manifestations of decreased testosterone concentrations may include gynecomastia , impotence and oligospermia .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients should be instructed to report any signs and symptoms which may suggest liver dysfunction so that appropriate biochemical testing can be done .
Such signs and symptoms may include unusual fatigue , anorexia , nausea and / or vomiting , abdominal pain , jaundice , dark urine or pale stools ( see WARNINGS section ) .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Ketoconazole is mainly metabolized through CYP3A4 .
Other substances that either share this metabolic pathway or modify CYP3A4 activity may influence the pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole .
Similarly , ketoconazole may modify the pharmacokinetics of other substances that share this metabolic pathway .
Ketoconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P - glycoprotein inhibitor .
When using concomitant medication , the corresponding label should be consulted for information on the route of metabolism and the possible need to adjust dosages .
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults .
The relevance of the results from these studies in pediatric patients is unknown .
Drugs that may decrease ketoconazole plasma concentrations Drugs that reduce the gastric acidity ( e . g . , acid neutralizing medicines such as aluminum hydroxide , or acid secretion suppressors such as H 2 - receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors ) impair the absorption of ketoconazole from ketoconazole tablets .
These drugs should be used with caution when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets : • Ketoconazole tablets should be administered with an acidic beverage ( such as non - diet cola ) upon co - treatment with drugs reducing gastric acidity .
• Acid neutralizing medicines ( e . g . , aluminum hydroxide ) should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the intake of ketoconazole tablets .
• Upon coadministration , the antifungal activity should be monitored and the ketoconazole tablets dose increased as deemed necessary .
Coadministration of ketoconazole tablets with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the bioavailability of ketoconazole to such an extent that efficacy may be reduced .
Examples include : • Antibacterials : isoniazid , rifabutin ( see also under ' Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased ' ) , rifampicin .
• Anticonvulsants : carbamazepine ( see also under ' Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased ' ) , phenytoin .
• Antivirals : efavirenz , nevirapine .
Therefore , administration of potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 with ketoconazole tablets is not recommended .
The use of these drugs should be avoided from 2 weeks before and during treatment with ketoconazole tablets , unless the benefits outweigh the risk of potentially reduced ketoconazole efficacy .
Upon coadministration , the antifungal activity should be monitored and the ketoconazole tablets dose increased as deemed necessary .
Drugs that may increase ketoconazole plasma concentrations Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , antivirals such as ritonavir , ritonavir - boosted darunavir and ritonavir - boosted fosamprenavir ) may increase the bioavailability of ketoconazole .
These drugs should be used with caution when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets .
Patients who must take ketoconazole tablets concomitantly with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of ketoconazole , and the ketoconazole tablets dose should be decreased as deemed necessary .
When appropriate , ketoconazole plasma concentrations should be measured .
Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by ketoconazole Ketoconazole can inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 and can inhibit the drug transport by P - glycoprotein , which may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and / or their active metabolite ( s ) when they are administered with ketoconazole .
These elevated plasma concentrations may increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of these drugs .
CYP3A4 - metabolized drugs known to prolong the QT interval may be contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets , since the combination may lead to ventricular tachyarrhythmias , including occurrences of torsade de pointes , a potentially fatal arrhythmia .
Examples of drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by ketoconazole presented by drug class with advice regarding coadministration with ketoconazole tablets : Drug Class Contraindicated Not Recommended Use with Caution Comments Under no circumstances should the drug be coadministered with ketoconazole tablets , and up to one week after discontinuation of treatment with ketoconazole .
The use of the drug should be avoided during and up to one week after discontinuation of treatment with ketoconazole tablets , unless the benefits outweigh the potentially increased risks of side effects .
If coadministration cannot be avoided , clinical monitoring for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug is recommended , and its dosage should be reduced or interrupted as deemed necessary .
When appropriate , plasma concentrations should be measured .
The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects .
Careful monitoring is recommended when the drug is coadministered with ketoconazole tablets .
Upon coadministration , patients should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug , and its dosage should be reduced as deemed necessary .
When appropriate , plasma concentrations should be measured .
The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects Alpha Blockers tamsulosin Analgesics methadone alfentanil , buprenorphine IV and sublingual , fentanyl , oxycodone , sufentanil Methadone : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of methadone when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes , or respiratory or CNS depression [ See CONTRAINDICATIONS . ]
Fentanyl : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of fentanyl when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of potentially fatal respiratory depression .
Sufentanil : No human pharmacokinetic data of an interaction with ketoconazole are available .
In vitro data suggest that sufentanil is metabolized by CYP3A4 and so potentially increased sufentanil plasma concentrations would be expected when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets .
Antiarrhythmics disopyramide , dofetilide , dronedarone , quinidine digoxin Disopyramide , dofetilide , dronedarone , quinidine : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of these drugs when coadministered with ketoconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation .
Digoxin : Rare cases of elevated plasma concentrations of digoxin have been reported .
It is not clear whether this was due to the combination of therapy .
It is , therefore , advisable to monitor digoxin concentrations in patients receiving ketoconazole .
Antibacterials rifabutin telithromycin Rifabutin : see also under ' Drugs that may decrease ketoconazole plasma concentrations ' Telithromycin : A multiple - dose interaction study with ketoconazole showed that C max of telithromycin was increased by 51 % and AUC by 95 % Anticoagulants and Antiplatelet Drugs rivaroxaban cilostazol , coumarins , dabigatran Cilostazol : Concomitant administration of single doses of cilostazol 100 mg and ketoconazole 400 mg approximately doubled cilostazol concentrations and altered ( increase / decrease ) the concentrations of the active metabolites of cilostazol .
Coumarins : Ketoconazole may enhance the anticoagulant effect of coumarin - like drugs ; thus , the anticoagulant effect should be carefully titrated and monitored .
Dabigatran : In patients with moderate renal impairment ( CrCL 50 mL / min to ≤ 80 mL / min ) , consider reducing the dose of dabigatran to 75 mg twice daily when it is coadministered with ketoconazole .
Anticonvulsants carbamazepine Carbamazepine : In vivo studies have demonstrated an increase in plasma carbamazepine concentrations in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole .
In addition , the bioavailability of ketoconazole may be reduced by carbamazepine Antidiabetics repaglinide , saxagliptin Antihelmintics and Antiprotozoals praziquantel Antimigraine Drugs ergot alkaloids , such as dihydroergotamine , ergometrine ( ergonovine ) , ergotamine , methylergometrine ( methylergonovine ) eletriptan Ergot alkaloids : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of ergotism , i . e . , a risk for vasospasm potentially leading to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities .
Eletriptan : Eletriptan should be used with caution with ketoconazole , and specifically , should not be used within at least 72 hours of treatment with ketoconazole Antineoplastics irinotecan dasatinib , lapatinib , nilotinib bortezomib , busulphan , docetaxel , erlotinib , imatinib , ixabepilone , paclitaxel , trimetrexate , vinca alkaloids Irinotecan : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of irinotecan when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events .
Docetaxel : In the presence of ketoconazole , the clearance of docetaxel in cancer patients was shown to decrease by 50 % .
Antipsychotics , Anxiolytics and Hypnotics alprazolam , lurasidone , oral midazolam , pimozide , triazolam aripiprazole , buspirone , haloperidol , midazolam IV , quetiapine , ramelteon , risperidone Alprazolam , midazolam , triazolam : Coadministration of ketoconazole tablets with oral midazolam or triazolam , or alprazolam may cause several - fold increases in plasma concentrations of these drugs .
This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects , especially with repeated dosing or chronic administration of these agents .
Pimozide : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of pimozide when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes .
Aripiprazole : Coadministration of ketoconazole ( 200 mg / day for 14 days ) with a 15 mg single dose of aripiprazole increased the AUC of aripiprazole and its active metabolite by 63 % and 77 % , respectively .
The effect of a higher ketoconazole dose ( 400 mg / day ) has not been studied .
When ketoconazole is given concomitantly with aripiprazole , them aripiprazole dose should be reduced to one - half of the recommended dose .
Buspirone : Ketoconazole is expected to inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone .
If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on buspirone , a dose reduction of buspirone may be necessary to avoid adverse events attributable to buspirone or diminished anxiolytic activity .
Antivirals indinavir , maraviroc , saquinavir Beta Blockers nadolol Calcium Channel Blockers felodipine , nisoldipine other dihydropyridines , verapamil Calcium channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect which may be additive to those of ketoconazole .
The potential increase in plasma concentrations of calcium channel blockers when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of edema and congestive heart failure .
Dihydropyridines : Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets may cause several - fold increases in plasma concentrations of dihydropyridines Cardiovascular Drugs , Miscellaneous ranolazine aliskiren , bosentan Ranolazine : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ranolazine when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation .
Bosentan : Coadministration of bosentan 125 mg twice daily and ketoconazole , increased the plasma concentrations of bosentan by approximately 2 fold in normal volunteers .
No dose adjustment of bosentan is necessary , but patients should be monitored for increased pharmacologic effects and adverse reactions of bosentan .
Diuretics eplerenone The potential increase in plasma concentrations of eplerenone when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of hyperkalemia and hypotension .
Gastrointestinal Drugs cisapride aprepitant Cisapride : Oral ketoconazole potently inhibits the metabolism of cisapride resulting in a mean eight - fold increase in AUC of cisapride , which can lead to serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation .
Immunosuppressants everolimus , rapamycin ( also known as sirolimus ) , temsirolimus budesonide , ciclesonide , cyclosporine , dexamethasone , fluticasone , methylprednisolone , tacrolimus Rapamycin ( sirolimus ) : Ketoconazole tablets 200 mg daily for 10 days increased the C max and AUC of a single 5 mg dose of sirolimus by 4 . 3 fold and 10 . 9 fold , respectively in 23 healthy subjects .
Fluticasone : Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects .
Lipid Regulating Drugs lovastatin , simvastatin atorvastatin The potential increase in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin , lovastatin and simvastatin when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of skeletal Muscle toxicity , including rhabdomyolysis .
Respiratory Drugs salmeterol Urological Drugs fesoterodine , sildenafil , solifenacin , tadalafil , tolterodine , vardenafil Vardenafil : A single dose of 5 mg of vardenafil should not be exceeded when coadministered with ketoconazole .
Other colchicine , in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment ; tolvaptan colchicine alcohol , cinacalcet Colchicine : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of colchicine when coadministered with ketoconazole tablets may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events Tolvaptan : Ketoconazole 200 mg administered with tolvaptan increased tolvaptan exposure by 5 fold .
Larger doses would be expected to produce larger increases in tolvaptan exposure .
There is not adequate experience to define the dose adjustment that would be needed to allow safe use of tolvaptan with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole .
Alcohol : Exceptional cases have been reported of a disulfiram - like reaction to alcohol , characterized by flushing , rash , peripheral edema , nausea and headache .
All symptoms completely resolved within a few hours .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ketoconazole did not show any signs of mutagenic potential when evaluated using the dominant lethal mutation test or the Ames Salmonella microsomal activator assay .
Ketoconazole was not carcinogenic in an 18 month , oral study in Swiss albino mice or a 24 month oral carcinogenicity study in Wistar rats at dose levels of 5 , 20 and 80 mg / kg / day .
The high dose in these studies was approximately 1 x ( mouse ) or 2 x ( rat ) the clinical dose in humans based on a mg / m 2 comparison .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Ketoconazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( syndactylia and oligodactylia ) in the rat when given in the diet at 80 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) .
However , these effects may be related to maternal toxicity , evidence of which also was seen at this and higher dose levels .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketoconazole tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Ketoconazole has also been found to be embryotoxic in the rat when given in the diet at doses higher than 80 mg / kg during the first trimester of gestation .
In addition , dystocia ( difficult labor ) was noted in rats administered oral ketoconazole during the third trimester of gestation .
This occurred when ketoconazole was administered at doses higher than 10 mg / kg ( about one fourth the maximum human dose , based on body surface area comparison ) .
Nursing Mothers Ketoconazole has been shown to be excreted in the milk .
Mothers who are under treatment with ketoconazole tablets should not breast feed .
Pediatric Use Ketoconazole tablets have not been systematically studied in children of any age , and essentially no information is available on children under 2 years .
Ketoconazole tablets should not be used in pediatric patients unless the potential benefit outweighs the risks .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions were reported in clinical trials : Immune System Disorders : anaphylactoid reaction Endocrine Disorders : gynecomastia Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : alcohol intolerance , anorexia , hyperlipidemia , increased appetite Psychiatric Disorders : insomnia , nervousness Nervous System Disorders : headache , dizziness , paresthesia , somnolence Eye Disorders : photophobia Vascular Disorders : orthostatic hypotension Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : epistaxis Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting , diarrhea , nausea , constipation , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , dry mouth , dysgeusia , dyspepsia , flatulence , tongue discoloration Hepatobiliary Disorders : hepatitis , jaundice , hepatic function abnormal Skin and Subcutaneous Tissues Disorders : erythema multiforme , rash , dermatitis , erythema , urticaria , pruritus , alopecia , xeroderma Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : myalgia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : menstrual disorder General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : asthenia , fatigue , hot flush , malaise , edema peripheral , pyrexia , chills Investigations : platelet count decreased .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ketoconazole tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions were reported during postmarketing experience : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders : allergic conditions including anaphylactic shock , anaphylactic reaction , angioneurotic edema Endocrine Disorders : adrenocortical insufficiency Nervous System Disorders : reversible intracranial pressure increased ( e . g . , papilloedema , fontanelle bulging in infants ) Hepatobiliary Disorders : serious hepatotoxicity including hepatitis cholestatic , biopsy - confirmed hepatic necrosis , cirrhosis , hepatic failure including cases resulting in transplantation or death Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , photosensitivity Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthralgia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : erectile dysfunction ; with doses higher than the recommended therapeutic dose of 200 or 400 mg daily , azoospermia .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of acute accidental overdose , treatment consists of supportive and symptomatic measures .
Within the first hour after ingestion , activated charcoal may be administered .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION There should be laboratory as well as clinical documentation of infection prior to starting ketoconazole therapy .
The usual duration of therapy for systemic infection is 6 months .
Treatment should be continued until active fungal infection has subsided Adults The recommended starting dose of ketoconazole tablets is a single daily administration of 200 mg ( one tablet ) .
If clinical responsiveness is insufficient within the expected time , the dose of ketoconazole tablets may be increased to 400 mg ( two tablets ) once daily .
Children In small numbers of children over 2 years of age , a single daily dose of 3 . 3 to 6 . 6 mg / kg has been used .
Ketoconazole tablets have not been studied in children under 2 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED Each ketoconazole tablet USP contains ketoconazole , USP 200 mg available in bottles of 20 ( NDC 66267 - 400 - 20 ) The tablets are white to off white , round shaped flat - beveled debossed with S and 500 on the scored side and plain on the other side .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
Manufactured by : Strides Shasun Limited , Puducherry - 605 014 , India Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc , East Brunswick , NJ 08816 PON / DRUGS / 16 13 4193 Rev . 03 / 2018 SPL MEDGUIDE MEDICATION GUIDE KETOCONAZOLE ( KEE - toe - KON - a - zole ) TABLETS USP What is the most important information I should know about ketoconazole tablets ?
Ketoconazole tablets are not the only medicine available to treat fungal infections and should only be used when other medicines are not right for you .
Talk to your healthcare provider to find out if ketoconazole tablets are right for you .
Ketoconazole tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • liver problems ( hepatotoxicity ) .
Some people who were treated with ketoconazole the active ingredient in ketoconazole tablets , had serious liver problems that led to death or the need for a liver transplant .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • loss of appetite or start losing weight ( anorexia ) • nausea or vomiting • feel tired • stomach pain or tenderness • dark urine or light colored stools • yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eye • fever or rash • changes in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation .
QT prolongation can cause irregular heart beats that can be life threatening .
This can happen when ketoconazole tablets are taken with certain medicines , such as dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , cisapride , methadone , disopyramide , dronedarone , and ranolazine .
Talk to your healthcare provider about other medicines you are taking before you start taking ketoconazole tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you feel faint , lightheaded , dizzy , or feel your heart beating irregularly or fast .
These may be symptoms related to QT prolongation .
What are ketoconazole tablets ?
• Ketoconazole tablets are prescription medicine used to treat serious fungal infections including : blastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , histoplasmosis , chromomycosis , and paracoccidioidomycosis .
• Ketoconazole tablets are not for people with fungal nail infections .
• Ketoconazole tablets have not been approved for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer or Cushing ' s syndrome .
The safety and efficacy have not been established .
• Ketoconazole tablets should only be used in children if prescribed by the healthcare provider who has determined that the benefits outweigh the risks .
Who should not take ketoconazole tablets ?
• Do not take ketoconazole tablets if you : • have liver problems • take simvastatin , or lovastatin .
Ketoconazole tablets when taken with these medicines may cause muscle problems .
• take eplerenone , dihydroergotamine , ergotamine , ergometrine ( ergonovine ) , methylergometrine ( methylergonovine ) or nisoldipine .
• take triazolam , midazolam , or alprazolam .
Taking ketoconazole tablets with these medicines may make you very drowsy and make your drowsiness last longer .
• are allergic to ketoconazole or any of the ingredients in ketoconazole tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ketoconazole tablets .
Before you take ketoconazole tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have had an abnormal heart rhythm tracing ( ECG ) or anyone in your family have or have had a heart problem called " congenital long QT syndrome " .
• have adrenal insufficiency .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ketoconazole tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Ketoconazole can pass into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take ketoconazole tablets or breastfeed .
You should NOT do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using ketoconazole tablets with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Using ketoconazole tablets with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
How should I take ketoconazole tablets ?
• Take ketoconazole tablets 1 time each day .
• Do not stop taking ketoconazole tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
What should I avoid while taking ketoconazole tablets ?
• Do not drink alcohol while taking ketoconazole tablets .
What are the possible side effects of ketoconazole tablets ?
Ketoconazole tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about ketoconazole tablets ? "
• adrenal insufficiency .
Adrenal insufficiency is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Ketoconazole tablets may cause adrenal insufficiency if you take a high dose .
Your healthcare provider will follow you closely if you have adrenal insufficiency or if you are taking prednisone or other similar medicines for long periods of time .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as tiredness , weakness , dizziness , nausea , and vomiting .
• serious allergic reactions .
Some people can have a serious allergic reaction to ketoconazole tablets .
Stop taking ketoconazole tablets and go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you get a rash , itching , hives , fever , swelling of the lips or tongue , chest pain , or have trouble breathing .
These could be signs of a serious allergic reaction .
• muscle problems .
Taking certain medicines with ketoconazole tablets may cause muscle problems .
See " Who should not take ketoconazole tablets ? "
The most common side effects of ketoconazole tablets include nausea , headache , diarrhea , stomach pain , and abnormal liver function tests .
These are not all the possible side effects of ketoconazole tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ketoconazole tablets ?
• Store ketoconazole tablets at room temperature between 68 ° and 77 ° F ( 20 ° and 25 ° C ) • Keep ketoconazole tablets dry .
General information about the safe and effective use of ketoconazole tablets .
Medications are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ketoconazole tablets for a condition for which they were not prescribed .
Do not give ketoconazole tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
They may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about ketoconazole tablets .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ketoconazole tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ketoconazole tablets , USP ?
Active ingredient : ketoconazole , USP Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc , East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Manufactured by : Strides Shasun Limited , Puducherry - 605 014 , India Rev . 03 / 2018 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
