Indications and Usage 1 . 1 .
Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
1 . 2 .
Coronary Artery Disease ( CAD ) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina .
Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Vasospastic Angina ( Prinzmetal ’ s or Variant Angina ) Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % , amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization due to angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure .
Dosage and Administration 2 . 1 .
Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine besylate tablets is 5 mg once daily with a maximum dose of 10 mg once daily .
Small , fragile , or elderly patients , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2 . 5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine besylate tablets to other antihypertensive therapy .
Adjust dosage according to each patient ’ s need .
In general , titration should proceed over 7 to 14 days so that the physician can fully assess the patient ’ s response to each dose level .
Titration may proceed more rapidly , however , if clinically warranted , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to10 mg , with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 to10 mg once daily .
In clinical studies , the majority of patients required 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 .
Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years is 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg once daily .
Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Contraindications Amlodipine besylate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine .
Warnings and Precautions 5 . 1 .
Hypotension Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Because of the gradual onset of action , acute hypotension is unlikely .
5 . 2 .
Increased Angina or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine besylate tablets , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
5 . 3 .
Beta - Blocker Withdrawal Amlodipine is not a beta - blocker and therefore gives no protection against the dangers of abrupt beta - blocker withdrawal ; any such withdrawal should be by gradual reduction of the dose of beta - blocker .
5 . 4 .
Patients with Hepatic Failure Because amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function , titrate slowly when administering amlodipine besylate to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Adverse Reactions 6 . 1 .
Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Amlodipine besylate tablets have been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
In general , treatment with amlodipine besylate tablets were well - tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily .
Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine besylate tablets were of mild or moderate severity .
In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine besylate tablets ( N = 1730 ) at doses up to 10 mg to placebo ( N = 1250 ) , discontinuation of amlodipine besylate tablets due to adverse reactions was required in only about 1 . 5 % of patients and was not significantly different from placebo ( about 1 % ) .
The most common side effects are headache and edema .
The following events occurred in < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : arrhythmia ( including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , chest pain , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , syncope , tachycardia , postural dizziness , postural hypotension , vasculitis .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dyspepsia , 1 dysphagia , diarrhea , flatulence , pancreatitis , vomiting , gingival hyperplasia .
General : allergic reaction , asthenia , 1 back pain , hot flushes , malaise , pain , rigors , weight gain , weight decrease .
Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , muscle cramps , 1 myalgia .
Psychiatric : sexual dysfunction ( male1 and female ) , insomnia , nervousness , depression , abnormal dreams , anxiety , depersonalization .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , 1 epistaxis .
Skin and Appendages : angioedema , erythema multiforme , pruritus , 1 rash , 1 rash erythematous , rash maculopapular .
Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye pain , tinnitus .
Urinary System : micturition frequency , micturition disorder , nocturia .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Hemopoietic : leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
1 These events occurred in less than 1 % in placebo - controlled trials , but the incidence of these side effects was between 1 % and 2 % in all multiple dose studies .
The following events occurred in < 0 . 1 % of patients : cardiac failure , pulse irregularity , extrasystoles , skin discoloration , urticaria , skin dryness , alopecia , dermatitis , muscle weakness , twitching , ataxia , hypertonia , migraine , cold and clammy skin , apathy , agitation , amnesia , gastritis , increased appetite , loose stools , coughing , rhinitis , dysuria , polyuria , parosmia , taste perversion , abnormal visual accommodation , and xerophthalmia .
Other reactions occurred sporadically and cannot be distinguished from medications or concurrent disease states such as myocardial infarction and angina .
Amlodipine therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in serum potassium , serum glucose , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
In the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] , the adverse event profile was similar to that reported previously ( see above ) , with the most common adverse event being peripheral edema .
6 . 2 .
Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) , in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization , have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Amlodipine besylate tablets have been used safely in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , well - compensated congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , and abnormal lipid profiles .
PLEASE VISIT THE FDA SITE TO VIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION INCLUDING CLINICAL TRIAL INFORMATION : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = 7aaf923d - 5b82 - 4a85 - bb10 - 5850087da487 & CFID = 19698 & CFTOKEN = 609ac8b08c4f1e1e - 30173D7B - F4DA - D75D - F59581A3FE4C3FFD Drug Interactions 7 . 1 .
In Vitro Data In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
7 . 2 .
Cimetidine Co - administration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
7 . 3 .
Grapefruit Juice Co - administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
7 . 4 .
Magnesium and Aluminum Hydroxide Antacid Co - administration of a magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacid with a single dose of amlodipine besylate tablets had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
7 . 5 .
Sildenafil A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine .
When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
7 . 6 .
Atorvastatin Co - administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
7 . 7 .
Simvastatin Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patient on amlodipine to 20 mg daily 7 . 8 .
Digoxin Co - administration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
7 . 9 .
Ethanol ( Alcohol ) Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
7 . 10 .
Warfarin Co - administration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
7 . 11 .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors Co - administration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin co - administration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors .
7 . 12 .
CYP3A4 Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A4 inducers .
7 . 13 .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions None known .
Use in specific populations 8 . 1 .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Amlodipine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( respectively , 8 times2 and 23 times2 the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
However , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
2 Based on patient weight of 50 kg .
8 . 3 .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether amlodipine is excreted in human milk .
In the absence of this information , it is recommended that nursing be discontinued while amlodipine is administered .
8 . 4 .
Pediatric Use Effect of amlodipine on blood pressure in patients less than 6 years of age is not known .
8 . 5 .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of amlodipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase of AUC of approximately 40 to 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Overdosage Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional overdosage of amlodipine is limited .
Single oral doses of amlodipine maleate equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
If massive overdose should occur , initiate active cardiac and respiratory monitoring .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , provide cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , consider administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
As amlodipine is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
Description Amlodipine besylate , USP is the besylate salt of amlodipine , a long - acting calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine besylate , USP is chemically described as 3 - Ethyl - 5 - methyl ( ± ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - aminoethoxy ) methyl ] - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate , monobenzenesulphonate .
Its empirical formula is C20H25CIN2O5 • C6H6O3S .
Amlodipine besylate , USP is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 567 . 1 .
It is slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are formulated as white tablets equivalent to 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg of amlodipine for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , amlodipine besylate , USP each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , sodium starch glycolate , and magnesium stearate .
Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 1 .
Mechanism of Action Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow - channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
The precise mechanisms by which amlodipine relieves angina have not been fully delineated , but are thought to include the following : Exertional Angina : In patients with exertional angina , amlodipine reduces the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works and reduces the rate pressure product , and thus myocardial oxygen demand , at any given level of exercise .
Vasospastic Angina : Amlodipine has been demonstrated to block constriction and restore blood flow in coronary arteries and arterioles in response to calcium , potassium epinephrine , serotonin , and thromboxane A2 analog in experimental animal models and in human coronary vessels in vitro .
This inhibition of coronary spasm is responsible for the effectiveness of amlodipine in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ’ s or variant ) angina .
12 . 2 .
Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamics : Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine besylate tablets produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
Although the acute intravenous administration of amlodipine decreases arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in hemodynamic studies of patients with chronic stable angina , chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical trials did not lead to clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressures in normotensive patients with angina .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine besylate tablets is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 to 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 to 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / - 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine besylate tablets resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine besylate tablets have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine besylate tablets have not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when co - administered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normal or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Electrophysiologic Effects : Amlodipine besylate tablets do not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In patients with chronic stable angina , intravenous administration of 10 mg did not significantly alter A - H and H - V conduction and sinus node recovery time after pacing .
Similar results were obtained in patients receiving amlodipine besylate tablets and concomitant beta - blockers .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine besylate tablets were administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters was observed .
In clinical trials with angina patients alone , amlodipine besylate tablet therapy did not alter electrocardiographic intervals or produce higher degrees of AV blocks .
12 . 3 .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After oral administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine besylate tablets , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 90 % .
The bioavailability of amlodipine besylate tablets is not altered by the presence of food .
Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism with 10 % of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites excreted in the urine .
Ex vivo studies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 to 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with renal failure may therefore receive the usual initial dose .
Elderly patients and patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 to 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
A similar increase in AUC was observed in patients with moderate to severe heart failure .
12 . 4 .
Pediatric Patients Sixty - two hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years received doses of amlodipine besylate tablets between 1 . 25 mg and 20 mg .
Weight - adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values in adults .
Nonclinical toxicology 3 . 1 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 mg , 1 . 25 mg , or 2 . 5 amlodipine mg / kg / day , showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine / day .
3 For the rat , the highest dose was , on a mg / m2 basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dose .
* Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum recommended human dose3 of 10 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
* Based on patient weight of 50 kg Principal display panel NDC : 51655 - 054 - 52 MFG : 31722 - 238 - 10 Amlodipine Besylate 5 MG 30 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each tablet contains amlodipine besylate , USP equivalent to 5 mg amlodipine .
Dosage : See prescribing information Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Protect from light and moisture .
Store in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg . by Invagen Pharmaceuticals , Hauppage , NY 11788 Mfg for Camber Pharmaceuticals , Piscataway , NJ 08854 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
