Active ingredients Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use aother topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , buring , itching , peeling or posible swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce daily application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor inactive ingredients carbomer , disodium EDTA , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , laureth - 4 , sodium hydroxide , water Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 TOPCO VIJA0422 QUESTIONS ?
1 - 423 - 0139 topcare @ topco . com www . topcarebrand . com Scan here for more information or call 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 This micronized benzoyl peroxide formula goes to work releasing the medicine deep into the pore where pimples begin Free from parabens , phthalates , fragrances , alcohol Quality Guaranteed This TopCare product is laboratory tested to guarantee its highest quality .
Your total satisfaction is guaranteed .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Company distributer of Clean & Clear Persa - Gel 10 .
principal display panel PARABEN & PHTHALATE FREE TopCare Beauty ACNE TREATMENT 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Compare to CLEAN & CLEAR Persa - Gel 10 * This micronized benzoyl peroxide formula goes to work releasing the medicine deep into the pore where pimples begin .
Dermatologist Tested TopCare Beauty ACNE TREATMENT 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Package contains one tube not actual size NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) TopCare Beauty ACNE TREATMENT 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
