ABOUT THE PRODUCT Elevate 5 % Minoxidil Foam is a hair regrowth foam to revitalize , increase hair follicle activity , and hair protein production to grow thicker hair .
It is ideal for revitalizing hair follicles , treating thinning hair , receding hairlines , mild to moderate pattern baldness , general hair loss , and getting a jumping start on an anti - hair loss routine in the early stages of hair thinning .
The easy - to - apply foam is suitable for all hair types and textures .
Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Minoxidil 5 % w ............... Hair regrowth treatment for men Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months HOW TO USE Dispense one pump of topical foam onto dry fingers .
Spread the foam over the targeted regrowth area , massaging the foam into the scalp . Thoroughly wash your hands after applying to the scalp .
Replace the cap to prevent the foam from drying out .
May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Other information before use , read all information on carton keep the carton .
It contains important information hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
store at 20 " to 25 " ( 68 to 77 F ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Aqua ( Water ) , Propylene Glycol , Minoxidil , Hyaluronic Acid , Cocamidopropyl Bataine , Keratin Amino Acids , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) , Glycerin , Xanthan Gum , Capryloyl Silk Amino Acids , Allantion , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Seed Exract , Polygonum Cuspidatum Extract , Ethylhexylglycerin Hair regrowth treatment for men [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
