1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NEXICLON XR is indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
NEXICLON XR may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
NEXICLON XR is a central alpha - adrenergic agonist indicated for : • Treatment of hypertension ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of NEXICLON XR must be adjusted according to the patient ' s individual blood pressure response .
The following is a general guide to its administration in adults .
• Initial dose : 0 . 17 mg once daily .
Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose .
Initial dose is recommended to be administered at bedtime .
( 2 . 1 ) • Maintenance dose : Further increments of 0 . 09 mg once daily may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved .
The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0 . 17 mg to 0 . 52 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • Patients with renal impairment : Up - titrate slowly ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Initial Dose Dosing with NEXICLON XR should be initiated at 0 . 17 mg once daily .
Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Initial dose is recommended to be administered at bedtime .
2 . 2 Maintenance Dose Further increments of 0 . 09 mg once daily may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved .
The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0 . 17 mg to 0 . 52 mg once daily .
NEXICLON XR was studied at doses of 0 . 17 to 0 . 52 mg once daily .
Doses higher than 0 . 52 mg per day were not evaluated and are not recommended .
2 . 3 Patients Currently Using Clonidine Hydrochloride Immediate - Release Tablets The recommended dose of NEXICLON XR for patients who are currently taking clonidine hydrochloride immediate - release tablets is provided in the table below .
NEXICLON XR ( clonidine ) Extended - Release Tablets Equivalent dose of Clonidine HCl Immediate - Release Tablets Initial Dose 0 . 17 mg once daily 0 . 1 mg twice daily Maintenance Dose Titration Increments 0 . 09 mg once daily 0 . 05 mg twice daily Common Doses Used for Blood Pressure Effect 0 . 17 mg once daily 0 . 1 mg twice daily 0 . 34 mg once daily 0 . 2 mg twice daily 0 . 52 mg once daily 0 . 3 mg twice daily 2 . 4 Renal Impairment Adjust dosage according to the degree of impairment .
In patients with end stage kidney disease on maintenance dialysis , start at 0 . 09 mg per day and up - titrate slowly to minimize dose related adverse events .
Monitor patients carefully , especially for bradycardia , sedation and hypotension .
Only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis .
In patients with moderate to severe kidney impairment not undergoing dialysis , initiate clonidine at the same dose as for patients without renal impairment .
Up - titrate slowly and monitor for dose - related adverse events .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 0 . 17 mg Extended - Release Tablets ( clonidine base ) 0 . 26 mg Extended - Release Tablets ( clonidine base ) Extended - Release Tablets : 0 . 17 , 0 . 26 mg clonidine base 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NEXICLON XR should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to clonidine ( rash , angioedema ) ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Patients should not discontinue therapy without consulting a physician .
Dose reduction should be performed gradually over a 2 - to 4 - day period to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
( 5 . 1 ) • Monitor closely and up - titrate slowly in patients with severe coronary insufficiency , conduction disturbances , recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , or chronic renal failure .
( 5 . 2 ) • Patients who engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as operating machinery or driving , should be advised of a possible sedative effect of clonidine .
( 5 . 2 ) • In perioperative use , NEXICLON XR may be administered up to 28 hours prior to surgery and resumed the following day .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Withdrawal Instruct patients not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with NEXICLON XR , reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of NEXICLON XR can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of NEXICLON XR .
Because children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting , they may be particularly susceptible to hypertensive episodes resulting from abrupt inability to take medication .
5 . 2 General Precautions In patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to a clonidine transdermal system , substitution of oral clonidine therapy may be associated with the development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction to a clonidine transdermal system , substitution of oral clonidine may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
Monitor carefully and up - titrate slowly in patients with severe coronary insufficiency , conduction disturbances , recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , or chronic renal failure .
Patients who engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as operating machinery or driving , should be advised of a possible sedative effect of clonidine .
The sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
5 . 3 Perioperative Use NEXICLON XR may be administered up to 28 hours prior to surgery and resumed the following day .
Blood pressure should be carefully monitored during surgery and additional measures to control blood pressure should be available if required .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in detail elsewhere in the labeling : • Withdrawal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] There is very little experience with NEXICLON XR in controlled trials .
Based on this limited experience , the adverse event profile appears similar with the immediate - release clonidine formulation .
The most commonly expected adverse reactions are dry mouth , drowsiness , and dizziness .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Athena Bioscience LLC at 1 - 833 - 874 - 2664 and www . athenabioscience . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 NEXICLON XR Clinical Trial Experience There is very limited experience with NEXICLON XR in controlled trials .
Based on this limited experience , the adverse event profile appears similar with to the immediate - release clonidine formulation .
6 . 2 Experience with Immediate - Release Clonidine Most adverse reactions are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which also appear to be dose - related ) are dry mouth ( approximately 40 % ) ; drowsiness ( approximately 33 % ) ; dizziness ( approximately 16 % ) ; constipation and sedation ( approximately 10 % each ) .
The following less frequent adverse reactions have also been reported in patients receiving immediate - release clonidine , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established .
Body as a Whole : Fatigue , fever , headache , pallor , weakness , and withdrawal syndrome .
Also reported were a weakly positive Coombs ’ test and increased sensitivity to alcohol .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , congestive heart failure , electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , sinus node arrest , junctional bradycardia , high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) , orthostatic symptoms , palpitations , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , syncope , and tachycardia .
Cases of sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System ( CNS ) : Agitation , anxiety , delirium , delusional perception , hallucinations ( including visual and auditory ) , insomnia , mental depression , nervousness , other behavioral changes , paresthesia , restlessness , sleep disorder , and vivid dreams or nightmares .
Dermatological : Alopecia , angioneurotic edema , hives , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , anorexia , constipation , hepatitis , malaise , mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests , nausea , parotitis , pseudo - obstruction ( including colonic pseudo - obstruction ) , salivary gland pain , and vomiting .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity , difficulty in micturition , erectile dysfunction , loss of libido , nocturia , and urinary retention .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Gynecomastia , transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase , and weight gain .
Musculoskeletal : Leg cramps and muscle or joint pain .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa .
Ophthalmological : Accommodation disorder , blurred vision , burning of the eyes , decreased lacrimation , and dryness of eyes .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted with NEXICLON XR .
The following have been reported with other oral formulations of clonidine .
Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
If a patient receiving clonidine hydrochloride is also taking tricyclic antidepressants , the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced , necessitating an increase in the clonidine dose .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction , e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , and beta - blockers .
Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concomitantly with diltiazem or verapamil .
Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
Alcohol : Based on in vitro studies , high concentration of alcohol may increase the rate of release of NEXICLON XR .
• Sedating drugs : Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
( 7 ) • Tricyclic antidepressants : May reduce the hypotensive effect of clonidine , necessitating an increase in clonidine dose .
( 7 ) • Drugs known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction ( e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers , beta - blockers ) : Additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy Category C ( 8 . 1 ) • Clonidine is secreted in human milk .
( 8 . 2 ) • Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
( 8 . 3 ) • Renal impairment : Dose may need adjustment .
( 2 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRDHD ) of clonidine hydrochloride produced no evidence of a teratogenic or embryotoxic potential in rabbits .
In rats , however , doses as low as 1 / 3 the oral MRDHD ( 1 / 15 the MRDHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) of clonidine were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same time or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the oral MRDHD ) when the dams were treated on gestation days 6 to 15 .
Increases in resorption were observed at much higher dose levels ( 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 4 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) in mice and rats treated on gestation days 1 to 14 ( lowest dose employed in the study was 500 mcg / kg ) .
No adequate , well - controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Nursing Mothers Clonidine is secreted in human milk .
8 . 3 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 4 Geriatric Use Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Patients with Renal Impairment The initial dosage should be based on the degree of impairment .
Monitor patients carefully for hypotension and bradycardia , and titrate to higher doses cautiously .
Only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis .
10 OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma , and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Clonidine overdosage may result in the rapid development of CNS depression ; therefore , induction of vomiting with ipecac syrup is not recommended .
Gastric lavage may be indicated following recent and / or large ingestions .
Administration of activated charcoal and / or a cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date involved a 28 - year old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semicoma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / mL after 1 hour , 190 ng / mL after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / mL after 2 hours , and 120 ng / mL after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD 50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
11 DESCRIPTION NEXICLON XR ( clonidine ) Extended - Release Tablets are available for oral administration in two dose strengths : 0 . 17 mg and 0 . 26 mg .
The 0 . 17 mg and 0 . 26 mg tablets are equivalent to 0 . 2 mg and 0 . 3 mg of immediate - release clonidine hydrochloride , respectively .
Clonidine hydrochloride , a centrally active alpha - adrenergic agonist , is an imidazoline derivative and exists as a mesomeric compound .
The chemical name is 2 - ( 2 . 6 - dichlorophenylamino ) - 2 - imidazoline hydrochloride .
The following is the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 9 H 9 C l2N 3 · HCl Mol .
Wt .
266 . 56 Clonidine hydrochloride is an odorless , bitter , white crystalline substance soluble in water and alcohol .
The inactive ingredients are : crospovidone , dental - type silica , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyvinyl acetate , povidone , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , triacetin .
The 0 . 17 mg tablet also contains hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
The 0 . 26 mg tablet also contains D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C yellow # 6 aluminum lake , fractionated coconut oil , maltodextrin , polydextrose , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
The patient ’ s maximum blood pressure decrease occurred within 6 to 8 hours .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact ; therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics NEXICLON XR was studied in an open - label crossover , force titration , partially randomized trial in patients with mild and moderate essential hypertension who were on two or fewer antihypertensive medications .
The trial was designed to compare steady - state exposures between the NEXICLON XR and clonidine immediate - release tablets .
There were up - and down - titration phases .
There was no washout period between phases or treatments .
Studies with immediate - release clonidine hydrochloride have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % to 20 % ) in cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance .
At a 45 ° tilt , there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long - term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic response to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a re - evaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates growth hormone release in both children and adults , but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following single doses of NEXICLON XR 0 . 17 mg , clonidine mean ( S . D . ) peak plasma concentrations of 0 . 49 ( ± 0 . 09 ) ng / mL occurred at 7 . 8 ( ± 1 . 7 ) hours .
The plasma half - life of clonidine was 13 . 7 ( ± 3 . 0 ) hours .
There was no effect of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] A = NEXICLON XR Tablets ( 0 . 17 mg QD ) Fasted B = Clonidine IR Tablet ( 0 . 1 mg clonidine hydrochloride Q12h ) Fasted C = NEXICLON XR Tablets ( 0 . 17 mg QD ) Fed In the multi - dose study , mild to moderate hypertensive patients were randomized to ER and BID IR clonidine formulations .
The following plot shows the sitting blood pressure values for each treatment group at Day 22 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The half - life may increase up to 41 hours in patients with severe impairment of renal function .
Following oral administration of clonidine about 40 to 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug in 24 hours .
About 50 % of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic dietary administration of clonidine was not carcinogenic to rats ( 132 weeks ) or mice ( 78 weeks ) dosed , respectively , at up to 46 or 70 times the maximum recommended daily human dose as mg / kg ( 9 or 6 times the MRDHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by clonidine doses as high as 150 mcg / kg ( approximately 3 times MRDHD ) .
In a separate experiment , fertility of female rats appeared to be affected at dose levels of 500 to 2000 mcg / kg ( 10 to 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 2 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride , a dose - dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer .
Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid .
In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats , eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before , and periodically after , the start of clonidine therapy .
In 353 of these 908 patients , the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer .
Except for some dryness of the eyes , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and , according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle , retinal function was unchanged .
In combination with amitriptyline , clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NEXICLON XR ( clonidine ) Extended - Release Tablets are scored , splitable , capsule - shaped coated tablets that are supplied in bottles of 30 .
Strength Color Markings NDC 0 . 17 mg White NP 2 71511 - 503 - 30 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º to 30ºC ( 59º to 86ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Caution patients against interruption of NEXICLON XR therapy without their healthcare provider ’ s advice .
Advise patients who engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as operating machinery or driving , of a possible sedative effect of clonidine .
The sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
Manufactured for : Athena Bioscience , LLC Athens , GA 30601 By : Tris Pharma , Inc .
Monmouth Junction , NJ 08852 08 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NEXICLON XR ® ( Clonidine Extended - Release ) Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
