Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : eczema seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis insect bites poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac cosmetics jewelry detergents soaps temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only When using this product do not get into the eyes for external anal itching , do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Ask a doctor .
for external anal itching if rectal bleeding occurs .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Stop us and ask doctor if condition gets worse , or if symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 2 years and over : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years : ask a doctor for external anal itching in adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly , or by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing pad .
gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying .
for external anal itching in children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information store at 20 째 C to 25 째 C ( 68 째 F to 77 째 F ) Inactive ingredient aloe barbadensis ( aloe vera ) leaf juice , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , methylparaben , mineral oil , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cetearyl sulfate , sodium lauryl sulfate , white petrolatum , white wax Purpose Anti - Itch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
