Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone Acetate USP 1 % Purpose Antipruritic ( Anti - Itch ) Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis , and for external genital , feminine , and anal itching .
Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Do not use • in the eyes • for diaper rash • for external genital or feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge • more than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • this product in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Ask a doctor before use if you are using any other hydrocortisone product Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not continue to use this or any other hydrocortisone product for longer than 7 days , or if bleeding occurs near anus when used for anal itching Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
• When used for anal itching , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry , patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying .
• Children under 12 : consult a doctor before using for anal itching .
Other Information • Do not use if seal on the tube is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • Store at room temperature • Avoid excessive heat • Preserve in well - closed container • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiry Date Inactive Ingredients Mineral Oil , Sorbitan Sesquioleate , White Petrolatum Questions ?
Contact 1 - 800 - 707 - 4621 Manufactured in India by : Gopaldas Visram & Company Limited Plot No .
A327 , T . T . C Indl .
Area , M . I . D . C Mahape , Navi Mumbai - 400710 .
Mfg . Lic .
No . : KD / 503 For BluePoint Laboratories Rev 01 / 2022 Label Hydrocortisone Ointment , USP 1 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Ointment , USP 1 % [ MULTIMEDIA ]
