1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GLUCAGON for Injection is an antihypoglycemic agent and a gastrointestinal motility inhibitor indicated : • for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in pediatric and adult patients with diabetes .
( 1 . 1 ) • as a diagnostic aid for use during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal tract in adult patients .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Severe Hypoglycemia Glucagon for Injection is indicated for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in pediatric and adult patients with diabetes mellitus .
1 . 2 Diagnostic Aid Glucagon for Injection is indicated as a diagnostic aid for use during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal tract in adult patients .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in adult and pediatric patients to treat severe hypoglycemia ( 2 . 2 ) • Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing 20 kg or More : • The recommended dosage is 1 mg ( 1 mL ) injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly into the upper arm , thigh , or buttocks , or intravenously .
• If there has been no response after 15 minutes , an additional 1 mg dose ( 1 mL ) may be administered while waiting for emergency assistance .
• Pediatric Patients Weighing Less Than 20 kg : • The recommended dosage is 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) or dose equivalent to 20 to 30 mcg / kg injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly into the upper arm , thigh , or buttocks , or intravenously .
• If there has been no response after 15 minutes , an additional 0 . 5 mg dose ( 0 . 5 mL ) may be administered while waiting for emergency assistance .
Important Administration Instructions for Using Glucagon for Injection to Treat Severe Hypoglycemia ( 2 . 1 ) • Glucagon for Injection is for subcutaneous , intramuscular , or intravenous injection .
Administer intravenously ONLY under medical supervision .
• See the Full Prescribing Information for administration instructions Dosage in Adults for Using Glucagon for Injection as a Diagnostic Aid ( 2 . 4 ) • Doses required for relaxation of the stomach , duodenum , and small bowel , depend on the onset and duration of effect required for the examination .
• The dose for relaxation of the duodenum and small bowel is 0 . 25 mg to 0 . 5 mg given intravenously or 1 mg given intramuscularly .
• For the stomach 0 . 5 mg intravenous or 2 mg intramuscular doses are recommended .
• For the colon , it is recommended that a 2 mg dose be administered intramuscularly approximately 10 minutes prior to the procedure .
• See the Full Prescribing Information for administration instructions ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions for Using Glucagon for Injection to Treat Severe Hypoglycemia Glucagon for Injection is for subcutaneous , intramuscular , or intravenous injection .
Administer intravenously ONLY under medical supervision .
Instruct patients and their caregivers on the signs and symptoms of severe hypoglycemia .
Because severe hypoglycemia requires the help of others to recover , instruct the patient to inform those around them about Glucagon for Injection and its Instructions for Use .
Administer Glucagon for Injection as soon as possible when severe hypoglycemia is recognized .
Instruct the patient or caregiver to read the Instructions for Use at the time they receive a prescription for Glucagon for Injection .
Emphasize the following instructions to the patient or caregiver : • Using the supplied prefilled syringe , carefully insert the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial containing Glucagon for Injection powder and inject all the liquid from the syringe into the vial .
• Swirl the vial gently until the powder is completely dissolved and no particles remain in the fluid .
The reconstituted solution should be clear and of a water - like consistency at time of use .
Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
If the resulting solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter do not use .
• The reconstituted solution is 1 mg per mL glucagon .
Use immediately after reconstitution .
• Immediately after reconstitution , use the same syringe to withdraw the correct dose of Glucagon for Injection .
• Inject the solution subcutaneously or intramuscularly in the upper arm , thigh , or buttocks .
In addition , healthcare providers may administer intravenously .
• Call for emergency assistance immediately after administering the dose .
• If there has been no response after 15 minutes , an additional dose of Glucagon for Injection may be administered while waiting for emergency assistance .
• When the patient has responded to the treatment and is able to swallow , give oral carbohydrates to restore the liver glycogen and prevent recurrence of hypoglycemia .
• Discard any unused portion .
2 . 2 Dosage for Treatment of Severe Hypoglycemia Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing 20 kg or More • The recommended dosage is 1 mg ( 1 mL ) injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly into the upper arm , thigh , or buttocks .
Alternatively , healthcare providers may administer the dose intravenously .
• If there has been no response after 15 minutes , an additional 1 mg dose ( 1 mL ) of Glucagon for Injection may be administered while waiting for emergency assistance .
Pediatric Patients Weighing Less Than 20 kg • The recommended dosage is 0 . 5 mg ( 0 . 5 mL ) or dose equivalent to 20 to 30 mcg / kg injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly into the upper arm , thigh , or buttocks .
Alternatively , healthcare providers may administer the dose intravenously .
• If there has been no response after 15 minutes , an additional 0 . 5 mg dose ( 0 . 5 mL ) of Glucagon for Injection may be administered while waiting for emergency assistance .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions for Using Glucagon for Injection as a Diagnostic Aid • Reconstitute Glucagon for Injection with 1 mL of diluent .
• Swirl the vial gently until the powder is completely dissolved and no particles remain in the fluid .
The reconstituted solution should be clear and of a water - like consistency at time of use .
Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
If the resulting solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter do not use .
• Withdraw the correct dose of Glucagon for Injection .
• The reconstituted solution is 1 mg per mL glucagon .
• Immediately after reconstitution , inject the solution intravenously or intramuscularly into upper arm , thigh , or buttocks .
• Discard unused portion .
• After the end of the diagnostic procedure , give oral carbohydrates to patients who have been fasting , if this is compatible with the diagnostic procedure .
2 . 4 Dosage in Adults for Use as a Diagnostic Aid • Doses required for relaxation of the stomach , duodenum , and small bowel , depend on the onset and duration of effect required for the examination [ see Pharmacodynamics ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
• The usual dose for relaxation of the stomach , duodenum and small bowel is 0 . 25 mg to 0 . 5 mg given intravenously or 1 mg given intramuscularly , but up to 2 mg intravenously or intramuscularly may be used if required ( 2 mg doses produce a higher rate of nausea and vomiting than lower doses ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• For the stomach because it is less sensitive to the effect of glucagon , 0 . 5 mg intravenous or 2 mg intramuscular doses are recommended .
• For the examination of the colon , it is recommended that a 2 mg dose be administered intramuscularly approximately 10 minutes prior to the procedure .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Glucagon for Injection is a white to off white lyophilized powder supplied as follows : • Single - dose vial containing 1 mg Glucagon for Injection with a pre - filled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent for Glucagon .
For Injection : single - dose vial containing 1 mg Glucagon for Injection with a prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent for Glucagon ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Pheochromocytoma because of the risk of substantial increase in blood pressure [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Insulinoma because of the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to glucagon or any of the excipients in Glucagon for Injection .
Allergic reactions have been reported with glucagon and include anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties and hypotension [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Glucagonoma when used as a diagnostic aid because of the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Pheochromocytoma ( 4 ) • Insulinoma ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to glucagon or to any of the excipients ( 4 ) • Glucagonoma when used as a diagnostic aid ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Substantial Increase in Blood Pressure in Patients with Pheochromocytoma : Contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because Glucagon for Injection may stimulate the release of catecholamines from the tumor .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Hypoglycemia in Patients with Insulinoma : In patients with insulinoma , glucagon administration may produce an initial increase in blood glucose ; however , Glucagon for Injection may stimulate exaggerated insulin release from an insulinoma and cause hypoglycemia .
If a patient develops symptoms of hypoglycemia after a dose of Glucagon for Injection , give glucose orally or intravenously .
( 4 , 5 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions : Allergic reactions , which have been reported with glucagon , may occur and include generalized rash , and in some cases anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties , and hypotension .
( 4 , 5 . 3 ) • Lack of Efficacy in Patients with Decreased Glycogen : Glucagon for Injection is effective in treating hypoglycemia only if sufficient hepatic glycogen is present .
Patients in states of starvation , with adrenal insufficiency or chronic hypoglycemia may not have adequate levels of hepatic glycogen for Glucagon for Injection administration to be effective .
Patients with these conditions should be treated with glucose .
( 5 . 4 ) • Necrolytic Migratory Erythema ( NME ) : Necrolytic migratory erythema ( NME ) , a skin rash , have been reported post marketing following continuous glucagon infusion and resolved with discontinuation of the glucagon .
Should NME occur , consider whether the benefits of continuous glucagon infusion outweigh the risks .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hyperglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus when Used as a Diagnostic Aid : Treatment with Glucagon for Injection in patients with diabetes mellitus may cause hyperglycemia .
Monitor diabetic patients for changes in blood glucose levels during treatment and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increase in Patients with Cardiac Disease when Used as a Diagnostic Aid : Glucagon for Injection may increase myocardial oxygen demand , blood pressure , and pulse rate .
Cardiac monitoring is recommended in patients with cardiac disease during use of Glucagon for Injection as a diagnostic aid , and an increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hypoglycemia in Patients with Glucagonoma : Glucagon administered to patients with glucagonoma may cause secondary hypoglycemia .
Test patients suspected of having glucagonoma for blood levels of glucagon prior to treatment .
( 4 , 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Substantial Increase in Blood Pressure in Patients with Pheochromocytoma Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because glucagon may stimulate the release of catecholamines from the tumor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If the patient develops a substantial increase in blood pressure and a previously undiagnosed pheochromocytoma is suspected , 5 to 10 mg of phentolamine mesylate , administered intravenously , has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure .
5 . 2 Hypoglycemia in Patients with Insulinoma In patients with insulinoma , administration of glucagon may produce an initial increase in blood glucose ; however , Glucagon for Injection administration may directly or indirectly ( through an initial rise in blood glucose ) stimulate exaggerated insulin release from an insulinoma and cause hypoglycemia .
Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with insulinoma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
If a patient develops symptoms of hypoglycemia after a dose of Glucagon for Injection , give glucose orally or intravenously .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions Allergic reactions have been reported with glucagon , these include generalized rash , and in some cases anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties and hypotension .
Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in patients with a prior hypersensitivity reaction [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Lack of Efficacy in Patients with Decreased Hepatic Glycogen Glucagon for Injection is effective in treating hypoglycemia only if sufficient hepatic glycogen is present .
Patients in states of starvation , with adrenal insufficiency or chronic hypoglycemia may not have adequate levels of hepatic glycogen for Glucagon for Injection administration to be effective .
Patients with these conditions should be treated with glucose .
5 . 5 Necrolytic Migratory Erythema Necrolytic Migratory Erythema ( NME ) , a skin rash commonly associated with glucagonomas ( glucagon - producing tumors ) and characterized by scaly , pruritic erythematous plaques , bullae , and erosions , has been reported post marketing following continuous glucagon infusion .
NME lesions may affect the face , groin , perineum and legs or be more widespread .
In the reported cases , NME resolved with discontinuation of the glucagon , and treatment with corticosteroids was not effective .
Should NME occur , consider whether the benefits of continuous glucagon infusion outweigh the risks .
5 . 6 Hyperglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus when Used as a Diagnostic Aid Treatment with Glucagon for Injection in patients with diabetes mellitus may cause hyperglycemia .
Monitor diabetic patients for changes in blood glucose levels during treatment and treat if indicated .
5 . 7 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increase in Patients with Cardiac Disease when Used as a Diagnostic Aid Glucagon for Injection may increase myocardial oxygen demand , blood pressure , and pulse rate which may be life - threatening in patients with cardiac disease .
Cardiac monitoring is recommended in patients with cardiac disease during use of Glucagon for Injection as a diagnostic aid , and an increase in blood pressure and pulse rate may require therapy .
5 . 8 Hypoglycemia in Patients with Glucagonoma Glucagon administered to patients with glucagonoma may cause secondary hypoglycemia .
Test patients suspected of having glucagonoma for blood levels of glucagon prior to use as a diagnostic aid as Glucagon for Injection is contraindicated in this setting [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Necrolytic Migratory Erythema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hyperglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus when Used as a Diagnostic Aid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increase in Patients with Cardiac Disease when used as a Diagnostic Aid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of glucagon .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Injection site reactions including erythema and swelling • Nausea • Vomiting • Headache • Dizziness • Asthenia • Pallor • Diarrhea • Somnolence • Generalized allergic reactions including anaphylactic shock with breathing difficulties and hypotension • Hypertension and tachycardia • Decreased blood pressure .
Hypotension has been reported up to 2 hours after administration in patients receiving glucagon as premedication for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy procedures .
• Hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic coma .
Patients taking indomethacin may be more likely to experience hypoglycemia following glucagon administration [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Necrolytic Migratory Erythema ( NME ) cases have been reported post marketing in patients receiving continuous infusion of glucagon .
Glucagon adverse reactions include : injection site reactions , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , asthenia , pallor , diarrhea , somnolence , and decreased blood pressure , To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Glucagon for Injection Beta - Blockers Clinical Impact : Patients taking beta - blockers may have a transient increase in pulse and blood pressure when given Glucagon for Injection .
Intervention : The increase in blood pressure and heart rate may require therapy in patients with coronary artery disease .
Indomethacin Clinical Impact : In patients taking indomethacin , Glucagon for Injection may lose its ability to raise blood glucose or may even produce hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Monitor blood glucose levels during glucagon treatment of patients taking indomethacin .
Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs and Glucagon for Injection increase the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions due to additive effects on inhibition of gastrointestinal motility .
Intervention : Concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs with Glucagon for Injection for use as a diagnostic aid is not recommended .
Warfarin Clinical Impact : Glucagon for Injection may increase the anticoagulant effect of warfarin .
Intervention : Monitor patients for unusual bruising or bleeding , as adjustments in warfarin dosage may be required .
Insulin Clinical Impact : Insulin acts antagonistically to glucagon .
Intervention : Monitor blood glucose when Glucagon for Injection is used as a diagnostic aid in patients receiving insulin .
• Beta - blockers : Patients taking beta - blockers may have a transient increase in pulse and blood pressure .
( 7 ) • Indomethacin : In patients taking indomethacin Glucagon for Injection may lose its ability to raise glucose or may produce hypoglycemia .
( 7 ) • Anticholinergic drugs : Concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs with Glucagon for Injection for use as a diagnostic aid is not recommended .
( 7 ) • Warfarin : Glucagon for Injection may increase the anticoagulant effect of warfarin .
( 7 ) • Insulin : Monitor blood glucose when Glucagon for Injection is used as a diagnostic aid in patients receiving insulin .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from case reports and a small number of observational studies with glucagon use in pregnant women over decades of use have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Multiple small studies have demonstrated a lack of transfer of pancreatic glucagon across the human placental barrier during early gestation .
In a rat reproduction study , no embryofetal toxicity was observed with glucagon administered by injection during the period of organogenesis at doses representing up to 40 times the human dose , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In pregnant rats given animal sourced glucagon twice - daily by injection at doses up to 2 mg / kg ( up to 40 times the human dose based on body surface area extrapolation , mg / m2 ) during the period of organogenesis , there was no evidence of increased malformations or embryofetal lethality .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of glucagon in human or animal milk , the effects of glucagon on the breastfed child or the effects of glucagon on milk production .
However , glucagon is a peptide and would be expected to be broken down to its constituent amino acids in the infant ' s digestive tract and is therefore , unlikely to cause harm to an exposed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Glucagon for Injection for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in pediatric patients with diabetes have been established .
Safety and effectiveness for use as a diagnostic aid during radiologic examinations to temporarily inhibit movement of the gastrointestinal tract in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of glucagon did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient when used as a diagnostic aid should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE If overdosage occurs , the patient may experience nausea , vomiting , inhibition of GI tract motility , increase in blood pressure and pulse rate .
In case of suspected overdosing , the serum potassium may decrease and should be monitored and corrected if needed .
If the patient develops a dramatic increase in blood pressure , phentolamine mesylate has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure for the short time that control would be needed .
11 DESCRIPTION Glucagon is an antihypoglycemic agent and a gastrointestinal motility inhibitor .
Glucagon is synthesized in a laboratory strain of Escherichia coli bacteria that has been genetically altered by the addition of the gene for glucagon .
The chemical structure of the glucagon is identical to human glucagon .
Glucagon is a single - chain polypeptide that contains 29 amino acid residues and has a molecular weight of 3483 Daltons .
The empirical formula is C153H225N43O49S .
The primary sequence of glucagon is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Crystalline glucagon is a white to off - white powder .
It is relatively insoluble in water but is soluble at a pH of less than 3 or more than 9 . 5 .
Glucagon for Injection is a sterile lyophilized white to off white powder in a vial and a syringe of sterile diluent for intravenous , intramuscular , or subcutaneous use .
The vial contains 1 mg of glucagon , 49 mg of lactose monohydrate .
Hydrochloric acid may have been added during manufacture to adjust the pH of the glucagon to 2 . 5 to 3 . 0 .
One International Unit of glucagon is equivalent to 1 mg of glucagon .
The 1 - mL diluent syringe contains 12 mg of glycerin , 1 mg hydrochloric acid , and Water for Injection , at pH 1 . 8 to 2 . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Glucagon increases blood glucose concentration by activating hepatic glucagon receptors , thereby stimulating glycogen breakdown and release of glucose from the liver .
Hepatic stores of glycogen are necessary for glucagon to produce an antihypoglycemic effect .
Extrahepatic effects of glucagon include relaxation of the smooth muscle of the stomach , duodenum , small bowel , and colon .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Treatment of Severe Hypoglycemia Blood glucose concentrations rise within 10 minutes of subcutaneous injection and mean maximal concentration of 136 mg / dL is attained 30 minutes after injection ( see Figure 1 ) .
Similarly , following intramuscular injection , the mean peak glucose level was 138 mg / dL , which occurred at 26 minutes after injection .
Figure 1 Mean ( SE ) blood glucose concentrations after subcutaneous injection of glucagon ( 1 mg ) in 25 normal volunteers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diagnostic Aid Table 2 displays the dose and pharmacodynamics properties of Glucagon for Injection as a diagnostic aid during radiological examination .
Table 2 : Dose and Pharmacodynamic properties of Glucagon for Injection as a Diagnostic Aid * Administration of 2 mg doses produces a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting than do lower doses .
Dose Route of administration Time of onset of action Approximate duration of effect 0 . 25 – 0 . 5 mg Intravenous 1 minute 9 – 17 minutes 1 mg Intramuscular 8 – 10 minutes 12 – 27 minutes 2 mg * Intravenous 1 minute 22 – 25 minutes 2 mg * Intramuscular 4 – 7 minutes 21 – 32 minutes 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Glucagon injected through the intramuscular route achieved mean peak plasma levels of 6 . 9 ng / mL at approximately 13 minutes after dosing ; and 7 . 9 ng / mL at approximately 20 minutes after subcutaneous dosing .
Administration of the intravenous glucagon showed dose proportionality of the pharmacokinetics between 0 . 25 and 2 mg .
Figure 2 Mean ( SE ) serum glucagon concentrations after subcutaneous injection of glucagon ( 1 mg ) in 25 normal volunteers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution The mean volume of distribution was 0 . 25 L / kg .
Elimination The mean clearance was 13 . 5 mL / min / kg .
The mean half - life ranged from 8 to 18 minutes .
Metabolism Glucagon is degraded in the liver , kidney and plasma .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Recombinant glucagon was positive in the bacterial Ames assay .
It was determined that an increase in colony counts was related to technical difficulties in running this assay with peptides .
Studies in rats have shown that glucagon does not cause impaired fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar contains 1 mg Glucagon for Injection ( a lyophilized white to off - white powder ) in a single - dose vial and 1 prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent of Glucagon .
• NDC 0002 - 8031 - 01 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Before Reconstitution : Store Glucagon for Injection at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Do not use Glucagon for Injection if the expiration date has passed .
Do not freeze .
Keep in its original package and away from light .
After Reconstitution : Use reconstituted Glucagon for Injection immediately .
Discard unused portion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Recognition of Severe Hypoglycemia Inform patient and family members or caregivers on how to recognize the signs and symptoms of severe hypoglycemia and the risks of prolonged hypoglycemia .
Administration Review the Patient Information and Instructions for Use with the patient and family members or caregivers .
Serious Hypersensitivity Inform patients that allergic reactions can occur with Glucagon for Injection .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2021 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
GLU - 0004 - USPI - 20210126 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 01 2021 GLU - 0003 - PPI - 20210126 PATIENT INFORMATION Glucagon ( GLOO - ka - gon ) for Injection , for subcutaneous , intramuscular , or intravenous use What is Glucagon for Injection ?
Glucagon for Injection is a prescription medicine used : • to treat very low blood sugar ( severe hypoglycemia ) in people with diabetes mellitus .
• to stop movement in the intestines in people receiving radiology exams .
Who should not use Glucagon for Injection ?
Do not use Glucagon for Injection if : • you have a tumor in the gland on top of your kidneys ( adrenal gland ) called a pheochromocytoma .
• you have a tumor in your pancreas called an insulinoma .
• you have a tumor in your pancreas called a glucagonoma because it could cause low blood sugar when used for your radiology exam • you are allergic to glucagon or lactose or any of the ingredients in Glucagon for Injection .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Glucagon for Injection .
Before using Glucagon for Injection , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have adrenal problems .
• have pancreas problems .
• have not had anything to eat or have not had a drink of water for a long time ( prolonged fasting or starvation ) .
• have low blood sugar that does not go away ( chronic hypoglycemia ) .
• have heart problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Glucagon will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Glucagon passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Glucagon may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how Glucagon works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use Glucagon for Injection ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that come with Glucagon for Injection .
• Use Glucagon for Injection exactly how and when your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Make sure you and your caregiver knows where you keep your Glucagon for Injection and how to use Glucagon for Injection the right way before you need their help .
• Act quickly .
Having very low blood sugar for a period of time may be harmful .
• After Glucagon is mixed , make sure it is clear and of water - like consistency .
Do not use if it has particles or is discolored .
• After giving Glucagon for Injection the caregiver should call for emergency medical help right away .
• Turn the person on their side to prevent them from choking .
• If the person does not respond after 15 minutes , another dose may be given , if available while waiting for emergency medical help .
• Eat sugar or a sugar sweetened product such as a regular soft drink or fruit juice as soon as you are able to swallow .
Tell your healthcare provider each time you use Glucagon for Injection .
Your healthcare provider may need to change the dose of your diabetes medicines .
What are the possible side effects of Glucagon for Injection ?
Glucagon may cause serious side effects , including : • High blood pressure .
Glucagon can cause high blood pressure in certain people with tumors in their adrenal glands called pheochromocytoma .
• Low blood sugar .
Glucagon can cause low blood sugar in people with tumors in their pancreas called insulinomas and glucagonomas .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • sweating • drowsiness • dizziness • sleep disturbances • irregular heartbeat • anxiety • tremor • blurred vision • hunger • slurred speech • restlessness • depressed mood • tingling in the hands , feet , lips or tongue • irritability • abnormal behavior • lightheadedness • unsteady movement • inability to concentrate • personality changes • headache Very low blood sugar can cause confusion , seizures , passing out ( loss of consciousness ) and death .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to tell if you have low blood sugar and what to do if this happens while using Glucagon for Injection .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions for treat low blood sugar .
• Serious allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have a serious allergic reaction including : • rash • difficulty breathing • low blood pressure • High blood sugar .
If you receive Glucagon for Injection before your radiology exam , it can cause high blood sugar .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood sugar levels during your treatment .
• Heart problems .
If you have heart problems and receive Glucagon for Injection before your radiology exam , you may have an increase in your blood pressure and pulse while using Glucagon for Injection which could be life threatening . Your healthcare provider will monitor your heart during treatment .
The most common side effects of Glucagon for Injection include : • swelling at the injection site • redness at the injection site • vomiting • nausea • decreased blood pressure • weakness • headache • dizziness • pale skin • diarrhea • sleepiness or drowsiness Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Glucagon for Injection .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Glucagon for Injection ?
Before you mix the Glucagon powder and liquid : • Do not use Glucagon for Injection if the expiration date has passed .
• Store Glucagon for Injection at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze Glucagon .
• Keep Glucagon for Injection in its original package and away from light .
After you mix the Glucagon powder and liquid : • Use Glucagon for Injection right away .
• Throw away unused Glucagon for Injection .
Keep Glucagon for Injection and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of Glucagon for Injection .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Glucagon for Injection for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Glucagon for Injection to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Glucagon for Injection that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in the Glucagon for Injection ?
Active Ingredient : Glucagon Inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , hydrochloric acid , and water for injection Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2021 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Glucagon ( GLOO - ka - gon ) for injection Important • Read and become familiar with this Instructions for Use before an emergency happens .
• Show your family members and others where you keep your Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar and how to use it the right way .
• Call for emergency medical help right after you use Glucagon for Injection .
• Do not share your Glucagon syringes or needles with another person .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
• The prefilled syringe that comes with your Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar is for use with Glucagon for Injection only .
Do not use Glucagon for Injection syringes to inject other medicines .
How should I store Glucagon for Injection ?
Before you mix the Glucagon powder and liquid : • Store Glucagon at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Check the expiration date on the vial of Glucagon for Injection .
Do not use Glucagon for Injection if the expiration date has passed .
• Do not freeze Glucagon .
• Keep Glucagon in its original package and away from light .
After you mix the Glucagon powder and liquid : • Use Glucagon for Injection right away .
• Throw away unused Glucagon for Injection .
Supplies you will need for your Glucagon for Injection • Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar contains ( see Figure A ) : • 1 single - dose vial containing 1 mg Glucagon for Injection ( as a sterile , lyophilized white to off - white powder ) • 1 prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent for Glucagon [ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 puncture resistant container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ How should I dispose of ( throw away ) used Glucagon syringes ? ”
at the end of these instructions .
• Alcohol swab ( not included in kit ) Preparing to Inject Glucagon for Injection • The Glucagon medicine comes as a dry powder .
Before you use Glucagon for Injection , you must mix the dry powder with the syringe of diluent that comes in the Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar .
Do not use any other liquid to mix the medicine .
Step 1 : Remove the flip - off seal from the vial of Glucagon .
Wipe the rubber stopper on the vial with an alcohol swab ( see Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Remove the needle protector from the syringe .
Inject all of the diluent in the prefilled syringe into the vial containing Glucagon powder ( see Figure C ) .
Do not remove the plastic clip from the syringe .
Remove syringe from the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Swirl the vial gently until the Glucagon powder dissolves completely ( see Figure D ) .
Glucagon should not be used unless the solution is clear and of a water - like consistency .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Using the same syringe , hold the vial upside down and , making sure the needle tip remains in the solution , gently withdraw all the solution ( 1 mg mark on syringe ) from the vial ( see Figure E ) .
The backstop and plastic clip on the syringe will prevent the rubber stopper from being pulled out of the syringe ; however , if the plunger rod separates from the rubber stopper , simply reinsert the rod by turning it clockwise .
The usual adult dose is 1 mg .
For children weighing less than 44 lb ( 20 kg ) , give 1 / 2 adult dose ( 0 . 5 mg ) .
For these children , withdraw 1 / 2 of the solution from the vial ( 0 . 5 mg mark on syringe ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Injecting Glucagon for Injection Step 5 : Choose your injection site and clean with an alcohol wipe .
Injection sites for Glucagon for Injection are the buttocks , upper arm , or thigh .
Step 6 : Insert the needle into the loose tissue under the clean injection site and push the plunger to inject all ( or 1 / 2 for children weighing less than 44 lbs . )
of the Glucagon for Injection .
After injecting Glucagon for Injection Step 7 : Apply light pressure at the injection site and withdraw the needle .
Press an alcohol swab against the injection site .
Throw away your used syringe with the needle attached and any Glucagon that you did not use in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
See “ How should I dispose of ( throw away ) used Glucagon syringes ? ”
at the end of these instructions .
Step 8 : Turn the person on their side .
When an unconscious person wakes up , they may vomit .
Turning the person on their side will prevent them from choking .
Step 9 : Call for emergency medical help right away .
Step 10 : Feed the person as soon as they wake up and are able to swallow .
Give the person a fast - acting source of sugar ( such as a regular soft drink or fruit juice ) and a long - acting source of sugar ( such as crackers and cheese or a meat sandwich ) .
Step 11 : If the person does not awaken within 15 minutes , give another dose of Glucagon and inform a doctor or emergency services right away .
Step 12 : Even if the Glucagon revives the person , their doctor should be notified right away .
A doctor should be notified whenever severe hypoglycemia occurs .
Hypoglycemia may happen again after receiving Glucagon for Injection .
Early symptoms of hypoglycemia ( low blood glucose ) include : • sweating • drowsiness • dizziness • sleep disturbances • irregular heartbeat • anxiety • tremor • blurred vision • hunger • slurred speech • restlessness • depressed mood • tingling in the hands , feet , lips or tongue .
• irritability • abnormal behavior • lightheadedness • unsteady movement • inability to concentrate • personality change • headache If not treated early , the symptoms may progress to severe hypoglycemia .
Signs include : • confusion • unconsciousness • seizures • death How should I dispose of ( throw away ) used Glucagon syringes ?
• Put used syringes in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labelled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
Keep Glucagon for Injection and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 01 / 2021 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2021 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
GLU - 0001 - IFU - 20210126 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – Glucagon 1 mg Emergency Kit 1 ct Lilly Rx only Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar Glucagon for Injection , 1 mg per vial Diluent for Glucagon , 1 mL syringe NDC 0002 - 8031 - 01 Must reconstitute vial contents with diluent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
