Active ingredients Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , buring , itching , peeling or posible swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce daily application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor inactive ingredients carbomer , disodium EDTA , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , laureth - 4 , sodium hydroxide , water " Alex , reorder Amazin Basics Acne Medication . "
alexa This basic idea : highly rated products at low prices .
DSTRIBUTED BY : Amazon . com Services , LLc Seattle , WA 98109 1 - 877 - 485 - 0385 amazon 2022 Amazon . com Inc . or its afiliates .
All rights reserved .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Company , distributer of Clean & Clear Persa - Gel 10 Maximum Strength .
principal display panel Solimo 10 % Benzoyl Peroxide Acne Medication MAXIMUM STRENGTH Dermatologitsted For treatment of acne NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] principal display panel amazon basics 10 % benzoyl peroxide acne medication Dermatologist Tested For Treatment of Acne Compare to Clean & Clear Persa - Gel 10 Maximum Strength * NET WT 1 OZ ( 28 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
