ACTIVE INGREDIENT CALCIUM 39 . 0 % VITAMIN D 0 . 08 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Crystalline cellulose , Wheat fiber , Glucosamine sulfate , Oriental chaff flower extract powder , Shark cartilage powder , Green lipped shell mussel powder , Willow bark extract powder , Zinc gluconate , Magnesium oxide , Garlic extract powder , Amino acid mixture , Taurine , Magnesium stearate , Silicon dioxide , Casein phosphopeptide , Ginkgo leaf extract powder , Turmeric fermentation powder , Soybean extract powder , Corn starch , Hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose , Natto bacterium culture powder PURPOSE Forming bones and teeth Necessary for absorbing calcium and phosphorus WARNINGS ■ Do not consume if there is anything wrong with product before ingestion .
■ If you have specific constitution or allergic , please check the ingredients before ingestion .
■ If a child swallows tablets , it can get caught in the throat , so care must be taken not to swallow them .
■ Infants , pregnant women , lactating women , disease holders , or those taking drugs should consult a doctor , pharmacist , etc . before ingestion .
■ Please be careful because you should not take the " dehumidifier " packaged separately for food quality control .
■ Consult with an expert in the case of an abnormal case .
■ Consult with an expert when you have hypercalcemia or take medication .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses ■ Calcium 1 ) It helps to reduce decomposing calcium in bones and to keep bones healthy .
2 ) It helps to reduce the risk of osteoporosis .
3 ) It is necessary for regular blood coagulation .
■ Vitamin D 1 ) It is necessary for absorption and utilization of calcium and phosphorus 2 ) It is necessary for forming and maintaining bones .
3 ) It is effective in preventing osteoporosis .
Directions ■ Take 2 tablets twice a day with sufficient water .
Other Information ■ Avoid direct sunlight and hot and humid places .
■ Keep it out of reach of children .
Questions ■ Customer call + 82 - 1644 - 7582 PACKAGE LABEL 82437 - 010 - 02 : 120 tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL 82437 - 010 - 03 : 360 tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
