DESCRIPTION Potassium citrate USP is a citrate salt of potassium and has the chemical name 1 , 2 , 3 - Propanetricarboxylic acid , 2 - hydroxy - , tripotassium salt , monohydrate .
Its molecular formula is K3C6H 5O7 .
H2O , and its structural formula is : M . W . 324 . 41 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium citrate USP is a white granular powder that is soluble in water at 154 g / 100 ml , almost insoluble in alcohol , and insoluble in organic solvents .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets USP are supplied as wax matrix tablets , containing 5 mEq ( 540 mg ) potassium citrate or 10 mEq ( 1080 mg ) potassium citrate , for oral administration .
In addition , potassium citrate extended - release tablets USP contain the inactive ingredients carnauba wax , magnesium stearate and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When potassium citrate is given orally , the metabolism of absorbed citrate produces an alkaline load .
The induced alkaline load in turn increases urinary pH and raises urinary citrate by augmenting citrate clearance without measurably altering ultrafilterable serum citrate .
Thus , potassium citrate therapy appears to increase urinary citrate principally by modifying the renal handling of citrate , rather than by increasing the filtered load of citrate .
The increased filtered load of citrate may play some role , however , as in small comparisons of oral citrate and oral bicarbonate , citrate had a greater effect on urinary citrate .
In addition to raising urinary pH and citrate , potassium citrate increases urinary potassium by approximately the amount contained in the medication .
In some patients , potassium citrate causes a transient reduction in urinary calcium .
The changes induced by potassium citrate produce a urine that is less conducive to the crystallization of stone - forming salts ( calcium oxalate , calcium phosphate and uric acid ) .
Increased citrate in the urine , by complexing with calcium , decreases calcium ion activity and thus the saturation of calcium oxalate .
Citrate also inhibits the spontaneous nucleation of calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate ( brushite ) .
The increase in urinary pH also decreases calcium ion activity by increasing calcium complexation to dissociated anions .
The rise in urinary pH also increases the ionization of uric acid to more soluble urate ion .
Potassium citrate therapy does not alter the urinary saturation of calcium phosphate , since the effect of increased citrate complexation of calcium is opposed by the rise in pH - dependent dissociation of phosphate .
Calcium phosphate stones are more stable in alkaline urine .
In the setting of normal renal function , the rise in urinary citrate following a single dose begins by the first hour and lasts for 12 hours .
With multiple doses the rise in citrate excretion reaches its peak by the third day and averts the normally wide circadian fluctuation in urinary citrate , thus maintaining urinary citrate at a higher , more constant level throughout the day .
When the treatment is withdrawn , urinary citrate begins to decline toward the pre - treatment level on the first day .
The rise in citrate excretion is directly dependent on the potassium citrate dosage .
Following long - term treatment , potassium citrate at a dosage of 60 mEq / day raises urinary citrate by approximately 400 mg / day and increases urinary pH by approximately 0 . 7 units .
In patients with severe renal tubular acidosis or chronic diarrheal syndrome where urinary citrate may be very low ( < 100 mg / day ) , potassium citrate may be relatively ineffective in raising urinary citrate .
A higher dose of potassium citrate may therefore be required to produce a satisfactory citraturic response .
In patients with renal tubular acidosis in whom urinary pH may be high , potassium citrate produces a relatively small rise in urinary pH . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis ( RTA ) with calcium stones , hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology , and uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with hyperkalemia ( or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia ) , as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest .
Such conditions include : chronic renal failure , uncontrolled diabetes mellitus , acute dehydration , strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals , adrenal insufficiency , extensive tissue breakdown , or the administration of a potassium - sparing agent ( such as triamterene , spironolactone or amiloride ) .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients in whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract , such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying , esophageal compression , intestinal obstruction or stricture or those taking anticholinergic medication .
Because of its ulcerogenic potential , potassium citrate extended - release tablets should not be given to patients with peptic ulcer disease .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with active urinary tract infection ( with either urea - splitting or other organisms , in association with either calcium or struvite stones ) .
The ability of potassium citrate extended - release tablets to increase urinary citrate may be attenuated by bacterial enzymatic degradation of citrate .
Moreover , the rise in urinary pH resulting from potassium citrate therapy might promote further bacterial growth .
Potassium citrate extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency ( glomerular filtration rate of less than 0 . 7 ml / kg / min ) , because of the danger of soft tissue calcification and increased risk for the development of hyperkalemia .
WARNINGS HYPERKALEMIA : In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium , potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest .
Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic .
The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure , or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure , should be avoided .
INTERACTION WITH POTASSIUM - SPARING DIURETICS Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium - sparing diuretic ( such as triamterene , spironolactone or amiloride ) should be avoided , since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia .
GASTROINTESTINAL LESIONS Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride ( wax - matrix ) , and endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg .
p . o . t . i . d . , potassium citrate 95 mEq / day , wax - matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq / day or wax matrix placebo , in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week .
Potassium citrate and the wax - matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax - matrix placebo .
In a subsequent similar study , lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted .
Solid dosage forms of potassium chloride have produced stenotic and / or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths .
These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets , which injured the bowel .
In addition , perhaps because wax - matrix preparations are not enteric - coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach , there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products .
The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax - matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100 , 000 patient - years .
Experience with potassium citrate is limited , but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated .
If there is severe vomiting , abdominal pain or gastro - intestinal bleeding , potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated .
PRECAUTIONS Information For Patients : Physicians should consider reminding the patient of the following : • To take each dose without crushing , chewing or sucking the tablet .
• To take this medicine only as directed .
This is especially important if the patient is also taking both diuretics and digitalis preparations .
• To check with physician if there is trouble swallowing tablets or if the tablet seems to stick in the throat .
• To check with the doctor at once if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Laboratory Tests : Regular serum potassium determinations are recommended .
Careful attention should be paid to acid - base balance , other serum electrolyte levels , the electrocardiogram , and the clinical status of the patient , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease or acidosis .
Drug Interactions : POTASSIUM - SPARING DIURETICS : SeeWARNINGS section .
DRUGS THAT SLOW GASTROINTESTINAL TRANSIT TIME ( such as anticholinergics ) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts .
( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with potassium citrate .
It is also not known whether potassium citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Potassium citrate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq / l .
It is not known if potassium citrate has an effect on this content .
Caution should be exercised when potassium citrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy , such as abdominal discomfort , vomiting , diarrhea , loose bowel movements or nausea .
These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract , and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snack , or by reducing the dosage .
Patients may find intact matrices in feces .
( see also CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS OVERDOSAGE The administration of potassium salts to persons without predisposing conditions for hyperkalemia ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) rarely causes serious hyperkalemia at recommended dosages .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - wave , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest .
Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : ( 1 ) elimination of potassium - rich foods , medications containing potassium , and of potassium - sparing diuretics , ( 2 ) intravenous administration of 300 - 500 ml / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 - 20 units of insulin / 1000 ml , ( 3 ) correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate , and ( 4 ) use of exchange resins , hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment with potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake ( avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table ) and encourages high fluid intake ( urine volume should be at least two liters per day ) .
The objective of treatment with potassium citrate extended - release tablets is to provide potassium citrate in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate ( greater than 320 mg / day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg / day as possible ) , and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
In patients with severe hypocitraturia ( urinary citrate of less than 150 mg / day ) , therapy should be initiated at a dosage of 60 mEq / day ( 20 mEq three times / day or 15 mEq four times / day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ) .
In patients with mild - moderate hypocitraturia ( > 150 mg / day ) , potassium citrate extended - release tablets should be initiated at a dosage of 30 mEq / day ( 10 mEq three times / day with meals ) .
Twenty - four hour urinary citrate and / or urinary pH measurements should be used to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness of any dosage change .
In addition , urinary citrate and / or pH should be measured every four months .
Doses of potassium citrate extended - release tablets greater than 100 mEq / day have not been studied and should be avoided .
Serum electrolytes ( sodium , potassium , chloride and carbon dioxide ) , serum creatinine , and complete blood count should be monitored every four months .
Treatment should be discontinued if there is hyperkalemia , a significant rise in serum creatinine , or a significant fall in blood hematocrit or hemoglobin .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium citrate extended - release tablets USP 10 mEq ( 1080 mg ) are pale yellow , capsule shaped compressed tablets debossed cor 149 on one side and other side is plain .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 ( NDC 54868 - 5644 - 1 ) Bottles of 90 ( NDC 54868 - 5644 - 0 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Manufactured by : Corepharma LLC Middlesex , NJ 08846 Distributed by : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc Allendale , NJ 07401 MF # 718 May 2009 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Potassium citrate extended - release tablets USP 10 mEq ( 1080 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
