1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine Hydrochloride Tablet is an N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
( 1 ) Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • May be taken with or without food .
( 2 ) • Initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
Increase dose in 5 mg increments to a maintenance dose of 10 mg twice daily .
A minimum of 1 week of treatment with the previous dose should be observed before increasing the dose .
( 2 ) • Severe renal impairment : recommended dose is 5 mg twice daily .
( 2 ) The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride is 5 mg once daily .
The dose should be increased in 5 mg increments to 10 mg / day ( 5 mg twice daily ) , 15 mg / day ( 5 mg and 10 mg as separate doses ) , and 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice daily ) .
The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week .
The dosage shown to be effective in controlled clinical trials is 20 mg / day .
Memantine hydrochloride can be taken with or without food .
If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride tablets for several days , dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above .
Special Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 5 to 29 mL / min based on the Cockroft - Gault equation ) .
Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 5 mg and 10 mg ( 3 ) Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 5 mg : Tan colored , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " M5 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 10 mg : Gray , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " M10 " on one side and plain on the other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Memantine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
( 4 ) Memantine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine , resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Genitourinary Conditions Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and greater than placebo ) are dizziness , headache , confusion and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Strides Pharma Inc . 1 - 877 - 244 - 9825 or go to www . strides . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Memantine hydrochloride was evaluated in eight double - blind placebo - controlled trials involving a total of 1862 dementia ( Alzheimer ' s disease , vascular dementia ) patients ( 940 patients treated with memantine hydrochloride and 922 patients treated with placebo ) for a treatment period up to 28 weeks .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation In placebo - controlled trials in which dementia patients received doses of memantine hydrochloride up to 20 mg / day , the likelihood of discontinuation because of an adverse reaction was the same in the memantine hydrochloride group ( 10 . 1 % ) as in the placebo group ( 11 . 5 % ) .
No individual adverse reaction was associated with the discontinuation of treatment in 1 % or more of memantine hydrochloride - treated patients and at a rate greater than placebo .
Most Common Adverse Reactions In double - blind placebo - controlled trials involving dementia patients , the most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and higher than placebo ) in patients treated with memantine hydrochloride were dizziness , headache , confusion and constipation .
Table 1 lists all adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with memantine hydrochloride and at an incidence greater than placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in Controlled Clinical Trials in at Least 2 % of Patients Receiving Memantine Hydrochloride and at a Higher Frequency than Placebo - treated Patients Placebo Memantine Hydrochloride Adverse Reaction ( N = 922 ) ( N = 940 ) % % Body as a Whole Fatigue 1 2 Pain 1 3 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 4 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 5 7 Headache 3 6 Gastrointestinal System Constipation 3 5 Vomiting 2 3 Musculoskeletal System Back pain 2 3 Psychiatric Disorders Confusion 5 6 Somnolence 2 3 Hallucination 2 3 Respiratory System Coughing 3 4 Dyspnea 1 2 The overall profile of adverse reactions and the incidence rates for individual adverse reactions in the subpopulation of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease were not different from the profile and incidence rates described above for the overall dementia population .
Seizures Memantine hydrochloride has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
In clinical trials of memantine hydrochloride , seizures occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients treated with memantine hydrochloride and 0 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of memantine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders – agranulocytosis , leukopenia ( including neutropenia ) , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura .
Cadriac Disorders – cardiac failure congestive .
Gastrointestinal Disorders – pancreatitis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders – hepatitis .
Psychiatric Disorders – suicidal ideation .
Renal and Urinary Disorders – acute renal failure ( including increased creatinine and renal insufficiency ) .
Skin Disorders – Stevens Johnson syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs that Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Hence , memantine should be used with caution under these conditions .
7 . 2 Use with Other N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) Antagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of memantine hydrochloride in pregnant women .
Adverse developmental effects ( decreased body weight , and skeletal ossification ) were observed in the offspring of rats administered memantine during pregnancy at doses associated with minimal maternal toxicity .
These doses are higher than those used in humans at the maximum recommended daily dose of memantine hydrochloride [ see Data ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown Data Animal Data Oral administration of memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) to rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in decreased skeletal ossification in fetuses at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose for adverse developmental effects ( 6 mg / kg ) is 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHD ) of memantine hydrochloride ( 20 mg ) on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
Oral administration of memantine to rabbits ( 0 , 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis resulted in no adverse developmental effects .
The highest dose tested is approximately 30 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
In rats , memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally prior to and throughout mating and , in females , through the period of organogenesis or continuing throughout lactation to weaning .
Decreased skeletal ossification in fetuses and decreased body weight in pups were observed at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose for adverse developmental effects ( 6 mg / kg / day ) is 3 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
Oral administration of memantine ( 0 , 2 , 6 , or 18 mg / kg / day ) to rats from late gestation throughout lactation to weaning , resulted in decreased pup weights at the highest dose tested .
The higher no - effect dose ( 6 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 3 times the MRHD of memantine hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of memantine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of memantine hydrochloride on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered al ong with the mother ' s clinical need for memantine hydrochloride and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from memantine hydrochloride or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Memantine failed to demonstrate efficacy in two 12 - week controlled clinical studies of 578 pediatric patients aged 6 - 12 years with autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) , including autism , Asperger ' s disorder and Pervasive Development Disorder - Not Otherwise Specified ( PDD - NOS ) .
Memantine has not been studied in pediatric patients under 6 years of age or over 12 years of age .
Memantine treatment was initiated at 3 mg / day and the dose was escalated to the target dose ( weight - based ) by week 6 .
Oral doses of memantine 3 , 6 , 9 , or 15 mg extended - release capsules were administered once daily to patients with weights < 20 kg , 20 - 39 kg , 40 - 59 kg and ≥ 60 kg , respectively .
In a randomized , 12 - week double - blind , placebo - controlled parallel study ( Study A ) in patients with autism , there was no statistically significant difference in the Social Responsiveness Scale ( SRS ) total raw score between patients randomized to memantine ( n = 54 ) and those randomized to placebo ( n = 53 ) .
In a 12 - week responder - enriched randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) in 471 patients with ASD , there was no statistically significant difference in the loss of therapeutic response rates between patients randomized to remain on full - dose memantine ( n = 153 ) and those randomized to switch to placebo ( n = 158 ) .
The overall risk profile of memantine in pediatric patients was generally consistent with the known risk profile in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In Study A , the adverse reactions in the memantine group ( n = 56 ) that were reported in at least 5 % of patients and at least twice the frequency of the placebo group ( N = 58 ) are listed in Table 2 : Table 2 : Study A Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions with a Frequency ≥ 5 % and Twice That of Placebo Adverse Reaction Memantine N = 56 Placebo N = 58 Cough 8 . 9 % 3 . 4 % Influenza 7 . 1 % 3 . 4 % Rhinorrhea 5 . 4 % 0 % Agitation 5 . 4 % 1 . 7 % Discontinuations due to adverse reactions a Aggression 3 . 6 % 1 . 7 % Irritability 1 . 8 % 3 . 4 % a Reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in more than one patient in either treatment group .
The adverse reactions that were reported in at least 5 % of patients in the 12 - 48 week open - label study to identify responders to enroll in Study B are listed in Table 3 : Table 3 : 12 - 48 Week Open Label Lead - In study to Study B Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions with a Frequency ≥ 5 % Adverse Reaction Memantine N = 903 Headache 8 . 0 % Nasopharyngitis 6 . 3 % Pyrexia 5 . 8 % Irritability 5 . 4 % Discontinuations due to adverse reactions a Irritability 1 . 2 % Aggression 1 . 0 % a At least 1 % incidence of adverse reactions leading to premature discontinuation .
In the randomized withdrawal study ( Study B ) , the adverse reaction in patients randomized to placebo ( n = 160 ) and reported in at least 5 % of patients and at twice the frequency of the full - dose memantine treatment group ( n = 157 ) was irritability ( 5 . 0 % vs 2 . 5 % ) .
Juvenile Animal Study In a study in which memantine ( 0 , 15 , 30 or 45 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to rats during the juvenile period of development ( postnatal days [ PND ] 14 through 70 ) , delays in sexual maturation were noted in males and females at all but the lowest dose tested , and body weight was reduced at the high dose .
In rats orally administered memantine as a single dose ( PND 14 ) or three daily doses ( PND 14 - 16 ) , neuronal lesions were observed in several areas of the brain at all but the lowest dose tested .
Adverse neurobehavioral effects ( decreased auditory startle habituation ) were observed at the high dose .
The no effect dose for developmental toxicity was the lowest dose tested ( 15 mg / kg / day ) .
In a second juvenile animal study , memantine ( 0 , 1 , 3 , 8 , 15 , 30 , and 45 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to male and female rats beginning on PND 7 and continuing for various periods during postnatal development .
Because of early memantine - related mortality , the 30 and 45 mg / kg / day groups were terminated without further evaluation .
Apoptosis or neuronal degeneration in the brain was observed on PNDs 8 - 17 at a dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
The no - effect dose for apoptosis and neuronal degeneration was 8 mg / kg / day .
In animals in which memantine ( 0 , 1 , 3 , 8 , or 15 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered on PNDs 7 - 70 , adverse neurobehavioral effects ( increased locomotor motor activity , increased auditory startle response and decreased habituation , and deficit in learning and memory ) were observed at all but the lowest dose tested .
Effects on auditory startle persisted after drug discontinuation .
The no - effect dose for developmental toxicity was the lowest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg / day ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The majority of people with Alzheimer ' s disease are 65 years and older .
In the clinical studies of memantine hydrochloride the mean age of patients was approximately 76 ; over 90 % of patients were 65 years and older , 60 % were 75 years and older , and 12 % were at or above 85 years of age .
The efficacy and safety data presented in the clinical trial sections were obtained from these patients .
There were no clinically meaningful differences in most adverse events reported by patient groups ≥ 65 years old and < 65 year old .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
A dosage reduction is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms most often accompanying memantine overdosage in clinical trials and from worldwide marketing experience , alone or in combination with other drugs and / or alcohol , include agitation , asthenia , bradycardia , confusion , coma , dizziness , ECG changes , increased blood pressure , lethargy , loss of consciousness , psychosis , restlessness , slowed movement , somnolence , stupor , unsteady gait , visual hallucinations , vertigo , vomiting , and weakness .
The largest known ingestion of memantine worldwide was 2 . 0 grams in a patient who took memantine in conjunction with unspecified antidiabetic medications .
The patient experienced coma , diplopia , and agitation , but subsequently recovered .
Fatal outcome has been very rarely reported with memantine , and the relationship to memantine was unclear .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a poison control center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As in any cases of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized , and treatment should be symptomatic .
Elimination of memantine can be enhanced by acidification of urine .
11 DESCRIPTION Memantine hydrochloride USP is an orally active NMDA receptor antagonist .
The chemical name for memantine hydrochloride is 1 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethyladamantane hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C12H21N • HCl and the molecular weight is 215 . 77 .
Memantine HCl , USP occurs as a fine white to off - white powder , freely soluble in methanol and soluble in water .
Memantine hydrochloride tablets USP are available for oral administration as capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets containing 5 mg and 10 mg of memantine hydrochloride .
The tablets also contain the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , croscarmellose sodium , and magnesium stearate .
In addition the following inactive ingredients are also present as components of the film coat : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , FD & C yellow # 6 and FD & C blue # 2 ( 5 mg tablets ) , and hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol and black iron oxide ( 10 mg tablets ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Persistent activation of central nervous system N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been hypothesized to contribute to the symptomatology of Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect through its action as a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive ( open - channel ) NMDA receptor antagonist which binds preferentially to the NMDA receptor - operated cation channels .
There is no evidence that memantine prevents or slows neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Memantine showed low to negligible affinity for GABA , benzodiazepine , dopamine , adrenergic , histamine and glycine receptors and for voltage - dependent Ca2 + , Na + or K + channels .
Memantine also showed antagonistic effects at the 5HT3 receptor with a potency similar to that for the NMDA receptor and blocked nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one - sixth to one - tenth the potency .
In vitro studies have shown that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by donepezil , galantamine , or tacrine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration memantine is highly absorbed with peak concentrations reached in about 3 to 7 hours .
Memantine has linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range .
Food has no effect on the absorption of memantine .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9 - 11 L / kg and the plasma protein binding is low ( 45 % ) .
Metabolism Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism .
The hepatic microsomal CYP450 enzyme system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of memantine .
Elimination Memantine is excreted predominantly ( about 48 % ) unchanged in urine and has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 to 80 hours .
The remainder is converted primarily to three polar metabolites which possess minimal NMDA receptor antagonistic activity : the N - glucuronide conjugate , 6 - hydroxy memantine , and 1 - nitroso - deaminated memantine .
A total of 74 % of the administered dose is excreted as the sum of the parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate .
Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption .
Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations Gender Following multiple dose administration of memantine hydrochloride 20 mg daily , females had about 45 % higher exposure than males , but there was no difference in exposure when body weight was taken into account .
Elderly The pharmacokinetics of memantine hydrochloride in young and elderly subjects are similar .
Renal Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following single oral administration of 20 mg memantine hydrochloride in 8 subjects with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance , CLcr , > 50 to 80 mL / min ) , 8 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 to 49 mL / min ) , 7 subjects with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 5 to 29 mL / min ) and 8 healthy subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) matched as closely as possible by age , weight and gender to the subjects with renal impairment .
Mean AUC0 - ∞ increased by 4 % , 60 % , and 115 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life increased by 18 % , 41 % , and 95 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following the administration of single oral doses of 20 mg in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B , score 7 to 9 ) and 8 subjects who were age - , gender - , and weight - matched to the hepatically - impaired subjects .
There was no change in memantine exposure ( based on Cmax and AUC ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
However , terminal elimination half - life increased by about 16 % in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment as the pharmacokinetics of memantine have not been evaluated in that population .
Drug - Drug Interactions Use with Cholinesterase Inhibitors Coadministration of memantine with the AChE inhibitor donepezil hydrochloride did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect AChE inhibition by donepezil .
In a 24 - week controlled clinical study in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease , the adverse event profile observed with a combination of memantine hydrochloride and donepezil was similar to that of donepezil alone .
Effect of Memantine Hydrochlorideon the Metabolism of Other Drugs In vitro studies conducted with marker substrates of CYP450 enzymes ( CYP1A2 , - 2A6 , - 2C9 , - 2D6 , - 2E1 , - 3A4 ) showed minimal inhibition of these enzymes by memantine .
In addition , in vitro studies indicate that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , - 2C9 , - 2E1 and - 3A4 / 5 .
No pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
Pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the potential of memantine for interaction with warfarin , and buproprion .
Memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of the CYP2B6 substrate buproprion or its metabolite hydroxy - buproprion .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin as assessed by the prothrombin INR .
Effect of Other Drugs on Memantine Hydrochloride Memantine is predominantly renally eliminated , and drugs that are substrates and / or inhibitors of the CYP450 system are not expected to alter the metabolism of memantine .
Drugs Eliminated via Renal Mechanisms Because memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion , coadministration of drugs that use the same renal cationic system , including hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , triamterene ( TA ) , metformin , cimetidine , ranitidine , quinidine , and nicotine , could potentially result in altered plasma levels of both agents .
However , coadministration of memantine hydrochloride and HCTZ / TA did not affect the bioavailability of either memantine or TA , and the bioavailability of HCTZ decreased by 20 % .
In addition , coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ® ( glyburide and metformin hydrochloride ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Furthermore , memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effect of Glucovance ® , indicating the absence of a pharmacodynamic interaction .
Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because the plasma protein binding of memantine is low ( 45 % ) , an interaction with drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins , such as warfarin and digoxin , is unlikely .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in a 113 - week oral study in mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was also no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats orally dosed at up to 40 mg / kg / day for 71 weeks followed by 20 mg / kg / day ( 20 and 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) through 128 weeks .
Memantine produced no evidence of genotoxic potential when evaluated in the in vitro S . typhimurium or E . coli reverse mutation assay , an in vitro chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , an in vivo cytogenetics assay for chromosome damage in rats , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
The results were equivocal in an in vitro gene mutation assay using Chinese hamster V79 cells .
No impairment of fertility or reproductive performance was seen in rats administered up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) orally from 14 days prior to mating through gestation and lactation in females , or for 60 days prior to mating in males .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Memantine induced neuronal lesions ( vacuolation and necrosis ) in the multipolar and pyramidal cells in cortical layers III and IV of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial neocortices in rats , similar to those which are known to occur in rodents administered other NMDA receptor antagonists .
Lesions were seen after a single dose of memantine .
In a study in which rats were given daily oral doses of memantine for 14 days , the no - effect dose for neuronal necrosis was 6 times the maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis In acute and repeat - dose neurotoxicity studies in female rats , oral administration of memantine and donepezil in combination resulted in increased incidence , severity , and distribution of neurodegeneration compared with memantine alone .
The no - effect levels of the combination were associated with clinically relevant plasma memantine and donepezil exposures .
The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of memantine hydrochloride as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease was demonstrated in 2 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) conducted in the United States that assessed both cognitive function and day to day function .
The mean age of patients participating in these two trials was 76 with a range of 50 to 93 years .
Approximately 66 % of patients were female and 91 % of patients were Caucasian .
A third study ( Study 3 ) , carried out in Latvia , enrolled patients with severe dementia , but did not assess cognitive function as a planned endpoint .
Study Outcome Measures : In each U . S . study , the effectiveness of memantine hydrochloride was determined using both an instrument designed to evaluate overall function through caregiver - related assessment , and an instrument that measures cognition .
Both studies showed that patients on memantine hydrochloride experienced significant improvement on both measures compared to placebo .
Day - to - day function was assessed in both studies using the modified Alzheimer ' s disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living inventory ( ADCS - ADL ) .
The ADCS - ADL consists of a comprehensive battery of ADL questions used to measure the functional capabilities of patients .
Each ADL item is rated from the highest level of independent performance to complete loss .
The investigator performs the inventory by interviewing a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient .
A subset of 19 items , including ratings of the patient ' s ability to eat , dress , bathe , telephone , travel , shop , and perform other household chores has been validated for the assessment of patients with moderate to severe dementia .
This is the modified ADCS - ADL , which has a scoring range of 0 to 54 , with the lower scores indicating greater functional impairment .
The ability of memantine hydrochloride to improve cognitive performance was assessed in both studies with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) , a multi - item instrument that has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB examines selected aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of attention , orientation , language , memory , visuospatial ability , construction , praxis , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Study 1 ( Twenty - Eight - Week Study ) In a study of 28 weeks duration , 252 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by DSM - IV and NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 3 and ≤ 14 and Global Deterioration Scale Stages 5 to 6 ) were randomized to memantine hydrochloride or placebo .
For patients randomized to memantine hydrochloride , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL Figure 1 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for patients in the two treatment groups completing the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the memantine hydrochloride - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 3 . 4 units .
Using an analysis based on all patients and carrying their last study observation forward ( LOCF analysis ) , memantine hydrochloride treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the change in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to memantine hydrochloride and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration ( a negative change in ADCS - ADL compared to baseline ) , but that the memantine hydrochloride group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
( In a cumulative distribution display , a curve for an effective treatment would be shifted to the left of the curve for placebo , while an ineffective or deleterious treatment would be superimposed upon or shifted to the right of the curve for placebo ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB Figure 3 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the memantine hydrochloride - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 5 . 7 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , memantine hydrochloride treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of change in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to memantine hydrochloride and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the memantine hydrochloride group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 ( Twenty - Four - Week Study ) In a study of 24 weeks duration , 404 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 5 and ≤ 14 ) who had been treated with donepezil for at least 6 months and who had been on a stable dose of donepezil for the last 3 months were randomized to memantine hydrochloride or placebo while still receiving donepezil .
For patients randomized to memantine hydrochloride , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL Figure 5 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the memantine hydrochloride / donepezil treated patients ( combination therapy ) compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil ( monotherapy ) was 1 . 6 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , memantine hydrochloride / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the measure of improvement in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to memantine hydrochloride / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the memantine hydrochloride / donepezil group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB Figure 7 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the memantine hydrochloride / donepezil - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil was 3 . 3 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , memantine hydrochloride / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to memantine hydrochloride / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses , but that the memantine hydrochloride / donepezil group is more likely to show an improvement or a smaller decline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 3 ( Twelve - Week Study ) In a double - blind study of 12 weeks duration , conducted in nursing homes in Latvia , 166 patients with dementia according to DSM - III - R , a Mini - Mental State Examination score of < 10 , and Global Deterioration Scale staging of 5 to 7 were randomized to either memantine hydrochloride or placebo .
For patients randomized to memantine hydrochloride , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased to 10 mg once daily after 1 week .
The primary efficacy measures were the care dependency subscale of the Behavioral Rating Scale for Geriatric Patients ( BGP ) , a measure of day - to - day function , and a Clinical Global Impression of Change ( CGI - C ) , a measure of overall clinical effect .
No valid measure of cognitive function was used in this study .
A statistically significant treatment difference at 12 weeks that favored memantine hydrochloride over placebo was seen on both primary efficacy measures .
Because the patients entered were a mixture of Alzheimer ' s disease and vascular dementia , an attempt was made to distinguish the two groups and all patients were later designated as having either vascular dementia or Alzheimer ' s disease , based on their scores on the Hachinski Ischemic Scale at study entry .
Only about 50 % of the patients had computerized tomography of the brain .
For the subset designated as having Alzheimer ' s disease , a statistically significant treatment effect favoring memantine hydrochloride over placebo at 12 weeks was seen on both the BGP and CGI - C .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 5 mg : Tan colored , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " M5 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 10 mg : Gray , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " M10 " on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC # Product Pack Size 64380 - 774 - 01 1 x 10 Unit Dose 64380 - 774 - 30 Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 5 mg 10 x 10 Unit Dose 64380 - 774 - 03 60 s bottle 64380 - 745 - 30 Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 10 mg 10 x 10 Unit Dose 64380 - 745 - 03 60 s bottle Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
To assure safe and effective use of memantine hydrochloride tablets , the following information provided in the patient information section should be discussed with patients and caregivers .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed to follow the dose titration schedule provided by their physician or healthcare professional for memantine hydrochloride .
They should be warned not to use any tablets of memantine hydrochloride that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride tablets for several days , dosing should not be resumed without consulting that patient ' s healthcare professional .
Manufactured by : Strides Pharma Science Limited Bengaluru - 562106 , India .
Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 All registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Revised : 05 / 2020 Patient Information MEMANTINE HYDROCHLORIDE Tablets USP ( mem ' an teen hye " droe klor ' ide ) Rx Only Read this Patient Information that comes with memantine hydrochloride tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
Memantine hydrochloride tablets are a prescription medicine used for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia in people with Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine hydrochloride tablets belongs to a class of medicines called NMDA ( N - methyl - D - aspartate ) inhibitors .
It is not known if memantine hydrochloride tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
Do not take memantine hydrochloride tablets if you are allergic to memantine or any of the ingredients in memantine hydrochloride tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in memantine hydrochloride tablets .
What should I tell my doctor before taking memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
Before you take memantine hydrochloride tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have or have had seizures • have or have had problems passing urine • have or have had bladder or kidney problems • have liver problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if memantine hydrochloride will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if memantine hydrochloride passes into your breast milk . Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take memantine hydrochloride .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking memantine hydrochloride tablets with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Taking memantine hydrochloride tablets with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • other NMDA antagonists such as amantadine , ketamine and dextromethorphan • medicines that make your urine alkaline such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and sodium bicarbonate Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
• Your doctor will tell you how many memantine hydrochloride tablets to take and when to take them .
• Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Memantine hydrochloride tablets can be taken with food or without food .
• Do not use any tablets of memantine hydrochloride that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
• If you forget to take one dose of memantine hydrochloride , do not double up on the next dose .
You should take only the next dose as scheduled .
• If you have forgotten to take memantine hydrochloride tablets for several days , you should not take the next dose until you talk to your doctor .
• If you take too many memantine hydrochloride tablets , call your doctor or poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 right away , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
Memantine hydrochloride tablets may cause side effects , including : The most common side effects of memantine hydrochloride tablets include : • dizziness • confusion • headache • constipation These are not all the possible side effects of memantine hydrochloride tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
• Store memantine hydrochloride tablets at room temperature between 59 oF to 77 oF ( 15 oC to 30 oC ) .
What are the ingredients in memantine hydrochloride tablets ?
Active ingredients : memantine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , colloidal silicon dioxide , talc and magnesium stearate Inactive ingredients for tablet film coating : Memantine hydrochloride tablets USP 5 mg are coated with opadry orange ( hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , FD & C yellow # 6 and FD & C blue # 2 ) and memantine hydrochloride tablets USP 10 mg are coated with opadry grey ( hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol and black iron oxide ) .
Keep memantine hydrochloride tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of memantine hydrochloride tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take memantine hydrochloride tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give memantine hydrochloride tablets to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about memantine hydrochloride tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about memantine hydrochloride tablets that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about memantine hydrochloride tablets , go to www . strides . com , or call Strides Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 244 - 9825 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Strides Pharma Science Limited Bengaluru - 562106 , India Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Revised : 05 / 2020 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg - 60 s Bottle NDC 64380 - 774 - 03 60 Tablets Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 5 mg RX Only Strides Pharma Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg - 60 s Bottle NDC 64380 - 745 - 03 60 Tablets Memantine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 10 mg RX Only Strides Pharma Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
