Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Guaifenesin 100 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • shake well before using age dose children 6 to under 12 years 5 - 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 to 5 years 2 . 5 - 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 2 mg • store between 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77º ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , D & C red # 33 , dextrose , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium hydroxide , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Principal Display Panel Compare to Children ' s Mucinex ® Cough active ingredients * Children ' s Cough Mucus Relief Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg - Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg - Expectorant Relieves : • cough • chest congestion • breaks up mucus Alcohol Free For Ages 4 to 11 Years Cherry Flavor FL OZ ( mL ) Dosing Cup Included * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser , distributor of Children ' s Mucinex ® Cough .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL AROUND BOTTLE OR UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Distributed by TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 topcare @ topco . com www . topcarebrand . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
