RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Contraindications ( 4 ) 08 / 2017 Warnings ( 5 . 3 ) 08 / 2017 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
● Larin 24 Fe is contraindicated inwomen over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) ● Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oralcontraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LARIN 24 Fe is a progestin / estrogen COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) The efficacy of LARIN 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
( 1 , 8 . 8 ) LARIN 24 Fe is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The efficacy of LARIN 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) of > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day for 28 days ( 2 . 1 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack ( 2 . 1 ) • LARIN 24 Fe may be administered without regard to meals ( 12 . 3 ) 2 . 1 How to Start LARIN 24 Fe LARIN 24 Fe is dispensed in a blister card [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
LARIN 24 FE may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception must be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take LARIN 24 Fe [ MULTIMEDIA ] Starting LARIN 24 Fe after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , LARIN 24 Fe may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if LARIN 24 Fe is started immediately .
• If LARIN 24 Fe is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient must use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of her first 28 - day course of LARIN 24 Fe .
Second - trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start LARIN 24 Fe following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start .
Use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first 7 days of the patient ' s first 28 - day course of LARIN 24 Fe [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - approved Patient Labeling ] .
Starting LARIN 24 Fe after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with LARIN 24 Fe following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of LARIN 24 Fe [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Missed Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures must be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 - 4 hours after taking a pale yellow tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LARIN 24 Fe consists of 28 tablets in the following order • 24 pale yellow tablets ( active ) , each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol • 4 brown tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) , each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose LARIN 24 Fe ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) is available in blister packs .
Each blister pack ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 pale yellow , round ( active ) tablets debossed with " L2 " on one side and each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol .
• 4 brown , round ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with " F " on one side and " N " on the other side and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) Do not prescribe LARIN 24 Fe to women who are known to have the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : StopLarin 24 Fe if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : DiscontinueLARIN 24 Fe if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stopLARIN 24 Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women takingLARIN 24 Fe .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinueLARIN 24 Fe if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • Stop LARIN 24 Fe if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• Stop LARIN 24 Fe if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• If feasible , stop LARIN 24 Fe at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during the following prolonged immobilization .
• Start LARIN 24 Fe no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 cases per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COCs and when restarting oral contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued .
• Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use LARIN 24 Fe in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue LARIN 24 Fe if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors LARIN 24 Fe is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases per 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue LARIN 24 Fe prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
LARIN 24 Fe can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure LARIN 24 Fe is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop LARIN 24 Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking LARIN 24 Fe .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking LARIN 24 Fe develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue LARIN 24 Fe if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of LARIN 24 Fe in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In a clinical trial of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , the frequency and duration of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting was assessed in 743 women ( 3 , 823 28 - day cycles ) .
A total of 10 subjects ( 1 . 3 % ) discontinued norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , at least in part , due to bleeding or spotting .
Based on data from the clinical trial , [ 24 - 38 % ] of women using norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets experienced unscheduled bleeding per cycle in the six months of the trial .
The percent of women who experienced unscheduled bleeding tended to decrease over time .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use LARIN 24 Fe may experience absence of withdrawal bleeding , even if they are not pregnant .
In the clinical trial with norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , 31 to 41 % of the women using norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets did not have a withdrawal menses in at least one of 6 cycles of use .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiologic studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue LARIN 24 Fe use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue LARIN 24 Fe if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Carcinoma of the Breast and Cervix LARIN 24 Fe is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer is a hormonally - sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
There is substantial evidence that COCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that COCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking LARIN 24 Fe .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most common adverse reactions ( 2 % ) were : headache , vaginal candidiasis , nausea , menstrual cramps , breast tenderness , mood changes , bacterial vaginitis , acne , and weight gain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Northstar Rx LLC .
Toll - Free at 1 - 800 - 206 - 7821 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets was evaluated in 743 subjects who participated in an open - label , randomized , active - controlled , multicenter clinical trial of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets for contraception .
This trial examined healthy , non - pregnant volunteers aged 18 to 45 years , who were sexually active and had a body mass index of 35 kg / m2 .
Subjects were followed for up to six 28 - day cycles providing a total of 3 , 823 treatment - cycles of exposure .
Common Adverse Reactions ( 2 % of all subjects ) : The most common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 % of the 743 women using norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets were the following , in order of decreasing incidence : headache ( 6 . 3 % ) , vaginal candidiasis ( 6 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 4 . 6 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 4 . 4 % ) , breast tenderness ( 3 . 4 % ) , mood changes ( including mood swings ( 2 . 2 % ) and depression ( 1 . 1 % ) ) , bacterial vaginitis ( 3 . 1 % ) , acne ( 2 . 7 % ) , and weight gain ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : Among the 743 women using norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , 46 women ( 6 . 2 % ) withdrew because of an adverse event .
Adverse events occurring in 3 or more subjects leading to discontinuation of treatment were , in decreasing order : abnormal bleeding ( 0 . 9 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 8 % ) , mood changes ( 0 . 8 % ) , menstrual cramps ( 0 . 4 % ) , increased blood pressure ( 0 . 4 % ) , and irregular bleeding ( 0 . 4 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is difficult to reliably estimate their frequency or evaluate a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : chest pain , palpitations , tachycardia , angina pectoris , myocardial infarction .
Endocrine disorders : hypothyroidism , hyperthyroidism .
Eye disorders : blurred vision , visual impairment , transient blindness , corneal thinning , change in corneal curvature ( steepening ) .
GI disorders : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , constipation , pancreatitis .
Hepatobiliary disorders : cholelithiasis , cholecystitis , hepatic adenoma , hemangioma of liver .
Immune system disorders : anaphylactic reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and severe reactions with respiratory and circulatory symptoms .
Infections : vaginal infection .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : change in weight or appetite ( increase or decrease ) .
hypoglycemia , diabetes mellitus , anemia .
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : myalgia .
Skin and subcutaneous disorders : alopecia , rash ( generalized and allergic ) , pruritus , skin discoloration , night sweats , swelling face or lips , hirsutism , skin burning sensation , erythema multiforme , erythema nodosum , hemorrhagic eruption .
Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness , migraine , hyperesthesia , paraesthesia , hypoaesthesia , somnolence , loss of consciousness , sensory disturbance .
Psychiatric disorders : mood swings , depression , insomnia , anxiety , suicidal ideation , panic attack , changes in libido , bipolar disorder , dissociation , homicidal ideation .
Renal and urinary disorders : pollakiuria , dysuria , cystitis - like syndrome .
Reproductive system and breast disorders : breast changes ( tenderness , pain , enlargement , and secretion ) , premenstrual syndrome , ovarian cyst , pelvic pain , ovarian cyst ruptured , pelvic fluid collection .
Vascular disorders : hot flush , thrombosis / embolism ( coronary artery , pulmonary , cerebral , deep vein ) , migraine , transient ischemic attack , ischemic stroke .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes ( for example CYP3A4 ) may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with oral contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives including phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ' s wort .
Interactions between COCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 - 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritnoavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , and temazepam .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevati Do not co - administer LARIN 24 Fe with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Advise use of another contraceptive method . LARIN 24 Fe can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Do not administer COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
Women who do not breastfeed should not start COCs earlier than 4 weeks postpartum .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use another contraceptive method , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same in postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use LARIN 24 Fe has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of LARIN 24 Fe has not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of LARIN 24 Fe has not been studied in women with renal impairment .
8 . 8 Body Mass Index The safety and efficacy of LARIN 24 Fe in women with a body mass index ( BMI ) > 35 kg / m2 has not been evaluated [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION LARIN 24 Fe is a combination oral contraceptive for oral administration consisting of active tablets containing norethindrone acetate , a progestin , and ethinyl estradiol , an estrogen , and placebo tablets containing ferrous fumarate , which serve no therapeutic purpose .
• Each active pale yellow tablet contains 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients include polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , talc , macrogol / polyethylglycol 3350 NF , lecithin ( soya ) , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake , lactose , magnesium stearate and pregelatinized corn starch .
• Each placebo brown tablet contains 75 mg ferrous fumarate , polyvinyl alcohol , iron oxide yellow , talc , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 3350 NF , iron oxide red , lecithin ( soya ) , iron oxide black , microcrystalline cellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate and crospovidone ..
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Ferrous fumarate tablets are not USP for dissolution .
The chemical name of ethinyl estradiol is 19 - nor - 17 - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol .
The empirical formula of ethinyl estradiol is C20H24O2 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of norethindrone acetate is 17 - hydroxy - 19 - nor - 17 - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one acetate .
The empirical formula of norethindrone acetate is C22H28O3 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with LARIN 24 Fe .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Norethindrone acetate appears to be completely and rapidly deacetylated to norethindrone after oral administration , because the disposition of norethindrone acetate is indistinguishable from that of orally administered norethindrone .
Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol are rapidly absorbed from LARIN 24 Fe tablets , with maximum plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol occurring 1 to 4 hours postdose .
Both are subject to first - pass metabolism after oral dosing , resulting in an absolute bioavailability of approximately 64 % for norethindrone and 43 % for ethinyl estradiol .
The plasma norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol pharmacokinetics following single - and multiple - dose administrations of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets in 17 healthy female volunteers are provided in Figures 1 and 2 , and Table 1 .
Following multiple - dose administration of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , mean maximum concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol were increased by 95 % and 27 % , respectively , as compared to single - dose administration .
Mean norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol exposures ( AUC values ) were increased by 164 % and 51 % respectively , as compared to single - dose administration of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
Steady - state with respect to norethindrone was reached by Day 17 and steady - state with respect to ethinyl estradiol was reached by Day 13 .
Mean SHBG concentrations were increased by 150 % from baseline ( 57 . 5 nmol / L ) to 144 nmol / L at steady - state .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effect A single - dose administration of LARIN 24 Fe tablet with food decreased the maximum concentration of norethindrone by 11 % and increased the extent of absorption by 27 % and decreased the maximum concentration of ethinyl estradiol by 30 % but not the extent of absorption .
Distribution Volume of distribution of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ranges from 2 to 4 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of both steroids is extensive ( > 95 % ) ; norethindrone binds to both albumin and SHBG , whereas ethinyl estradiol binds only to albumin .
Although ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , it induces SHBG synthesis .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
Ethinyl estradiol is also extensively metabolized , both by oxidation and by conjugation with sulfate and glucuronide .
Sulfates are the major circulating conjugates of ethinyl estradiol and glucuronides predominate in urine .
The primary oxidative metabolite is 2 - hydroxy ethinyl estradiol , formed by the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 .
Part of the first - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol is believed to occur in gastrointestinal mucosa .
Ethinyl estradiol may undergo enterohepatic circulation .
Excretion Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
Plasma clearance values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are similar ( approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg ) .
Steady - state elimination half - lives of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets are approximately 8 hours and 14 hours , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In an active - controlled clinical trial , 743 women 18 to 45 years of age were studied to assess the efficacy of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , for up to six 28 - day cycles .
The racial demographic of women randomized to norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets was : 69 . 5 % Caucasian , 15 . 5 % African - American , 10 . 4 % Hispanic , 2 . 3 % Asian and 2 . 3 % Native American / Other .
Women with body mass index ( BMI ) greater than 35 mg / m2 were excluded from the study .
The weight range for those women treated was 90 to 260 pounds , with a mean weight of 147 pounds .
Among the women in the study randomized to norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets , 38 . 9 % had not used hormonal contraception immediately prior to enrolling in this study .
A total of 583 women completed 6 cycles of treatment .
There were a total of 5 on - treatment pregnancies among women aged 18 to 45 years in 3 , 565 treatment cycles during which no back - up contraception was used .
The Pearl Index for norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets was 1 . 82 ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 59 to 4 . 25 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Larin 24 Fe is available in a compact blister card ( NDC 16714 - 416 - 01 ) containing 28 tablets : Carton of 1 NDC 16714 - 416 - 02 Carton of 3 NDC 16714 - 416 - 03 Carton of 6 NDC 16714 - 416 - 04 Each compact blister card ( 28 tablets ) contains in the following order : • 24 pale yellow , round ( active ) tablets debossed with " L2 " on one side and each containing 1 mg norethindrone acetate and 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol .
• 4 brown , round ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with " F " on one side and " N " on the other side and each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions • Store at 20 ° to 25 ( 68 H to 77 H ) ; excursions permitted from 15 to 30 ( 59 H to 86 H ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients about the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• LARIN 24 Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• LARIN 24 Fe is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of LARIN 24 Fe instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with LARIN 24 Fe [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Women who start COCs postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , must use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a pale yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
PATIENT INFORMATION LARIN 24 FE ( lare - inn 24 FE ) ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) What is the most important information I should know about LARIN 24 Fe ?
Do not use LARIN 24 Fe if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from hormonal birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is LARIN 24 Fe ?
LARIN 24 Fe is a birth control pill ( hormonal contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does LARIN 24 FE work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results from the clinical study , about 1 to 4 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use northindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take LARIN 24 Fe ?
Do not take LARIN 24 Fe if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • have liver problems , including liver tumors • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme " alanine aminotransferase " ( ALT ) in the blood .
If any of these conditions happen while you are taking LARIN 24 Fe , stop taking LARIN 24 Fe right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) when you stop taking LARIN 24 Fe .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking LARIN 24 Fe ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed . LARIN 24 Fe may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones inLARIN 24 Fe may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
LARIN 24 FE may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well LARIN 24 Fe works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take LARIN 24 Fe ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of LARIN 24 Fe ?
• Like pregnancy , LARIN 24 Fe may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • leg pain that will not go away • a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • sudden severe shortness of breath • weakness or numbness in your arm or leg • sudden change in vision or blindness • trouble speaking • chest pain Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking LARIN 24 Fe .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of LARIN 24 Fe ?
• headache • vaginal infections • nausea • menstrual cramps • breast tenderness • mood changes • acne • weight gain These are not all the possible side effects of LARIN 24 Fe .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking LARIN 24 Fe ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking LARIN 24 Fe .
Certain blood tests may be affected by LARIN 24 Fe .
• LARIN 24 Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store LARIN 24 Fe ?
• Store LARIN 24 Fe at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store away from light .
• Keep LARIN 24 Fe and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of LARIN 24 Fe .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use LARIN 24 Fe for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give LARIN 24 Fe to other people .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about LARIN 24 Fe .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about LARIN 24 Fe that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call Warner Chilcott at 1 - 800 - 521 - 8813 .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
Birth control pills do not seem to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking LARIN 24 Fe ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking LARIN 24 Fe , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in LARIN24 Fe ?
Active ingredients : Pale yellow pills : norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol Inactive ingredients : Brown pills : ferrous fumarate [ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE LARIN 24 FE ( lare - inn 24 FE ) ( norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets ) Important Information about taking LARIN 24 Fe • Take1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your pill dispenser .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) , you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take LARIN 24 Fe , talk to your healthcare provider .
• When you first start taking LARIN 24 Fe , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking LARIN 24 Fe .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( seeWhat should I do if I miss any LARIN 24 Fe pills ?
below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken LARIN 24 Fe according to directions , or miss2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking LARIN 24 Fe .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within3 - 4 hours of taking a pale yellow active pill , take another pale yellow pill from your extra pill dispenser .
If you do not have an extra pill dispenser , take the next pale yellow pill in your pill dispenser .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next pill dispenser the day after finishing your current pill dispenser .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms and a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking LARIN 24 Fe at least4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms and spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking LARIN 24 Fe : • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your pill dispenser .
• Have backup contraception ( condoms and spermicide ) available and if possible , an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking LARIN 24 Fe ?
If you start taking LARIN 24 Fe and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first7 days that you take LARIN 24 Fe .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking LARIN 24 Fe and you are switching from another birth control pill : • Start your new LARIN 24 Fe pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking LARIN 24 Fe and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • Start using LARIN 24 Fe on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking LARIN 24 Fe and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • Start taking LARIN 24 Fe on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking LARIN 24 Fe and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • Start taking LARIN 24 Fe on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first7 days that you take LARIN 24 Fe .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , " When should I start taking LARIN 24 Fe ? "
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• Take pill1 on the Sundayafter your period starts .
• If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill " 1 " that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• Take1 pill every day in the order on the pill dispenser at the same time each day for28 days .
• After taking the last pill onDay 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first7 days of the first cycle that you take LARIN 24 FE .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• Take1 pill every day in the order of the pill dispenser dial pack , at the same time each day , for28 days .
• After taking the last pill onDay 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
Instructions for using your pill pack : The LARIN 24 Fe pill pack has 24 " active " pale yellow pills ( with hormones ) to be taken for 24 days , followed by 4 " reminder " brown pills ( without hormones ) to be taken for the next 4 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Look for : • Where on the pack to start taking pills • In what order to take the pills .
Follow the arrows shown inFigure A .
• The week numbers as shown inFigure A .
What if should I do if I miss any LARIN 24 FE pale yellow pills ?
If you miss 1 pale yellow pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time . This means you may take2 pills in1 day .
• Then continue taking1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pale yellow pills in a row in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pale yellow pills in a row in Week 3 or Week 4 , or you miss 3 or more pale yellow pills in a row at any time , follow these steps : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• If you are a Sunday Starter : Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you miss any of the 4 brown " reminder " pills in Week 4 , throw away the pills you missed and keep taking 1 pill each day until the pack is empty .
You do not need to use a back - up method of birth control .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Northstar Rx LLC Memphis TN 38141 Manufactured by : Novast Laboratories Ltd .
Nantong , China 226009 This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 11 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
