Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) 2 / 2017 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE READI - CAT 2 and READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIES are indicated for use in computed tomography ( CT ) of the abdomen to delineate the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract in adult and pediatric patients .
READI - CAT 2 and READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE are radiographic contrast agents , indicated for use in computed tomography ( CT ) of the abdomen to delineate the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract in adult and pediatric patients ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral use only : • Adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older : 450 mL to 900 mL ( 9 g to 18 g of barium sulfate , respectively ) ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients younger than 12 years of age : scale down dose based on relative GI volume ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Base dosing on individual needs and procedure to be performed .
• Adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older : 450 mL to 900 mL ( 9 g to 18 g of barium sulfate ) • Patients younger than 12 years of age : adjust dose based on relative GI volume 2 . 2 Administration Instructions • For oral use only • Shake bottle vigorously for 30 seconds prior to oral administration • Administer undiluted prior to scan • Discard any unused suspension • Advise patients to hydrate following the barium sulfate procedure 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral suspension : 9 grams of barium sulfate supplied as a suspension ( 2 % w / v ) in a single - dose HDPE plastic bottle .
• Oral Suspension : 9 grams barium sulfate ( 2 % w / v ) supplied in a single dose HDPE plastic bottle ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS READI - CAT 2 products are contraindicated in patients : • with known or suspected perforation of the GI tract • with known obstruction of the GI tract • at high risk of GI perforation such as those with a recent prior GI perforation , acute GI hemorrhage or ischemia , toxic megacolon , severe ileus , post GI surgery or biopsy , acute GI injury or burn , or recent radiotherapy to pelvis • at high risk of aspiration such as those with prior aspiration , tracheo - esophageal fistula , or obtundation • known severe hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of READI - CAT 2 or READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIES • Known or suspected perforation of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Known obstruction of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Conditions associated with high risk of GI perforation or aspiration ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of READI - CAT 2 products ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available ( 5 . 1 ) • Intra - abdominal leakage : May occur in conditions such as GI fistula , ulcer , inflammatory bowel disease , appendicitis or diverticulitis , severe stenosis or obstructing lesions of the GI tract ( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed GI transit and obstruction : Patients should maintain adequate hydration in days following a barium sulfate procedure to avoid obstruction or impaction ( 5 . 3 ) • Aspiration : Caution is recommended in patients with history of food aspiration and in patients with known swallowing disorders ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Barium sulfate preparations contain a number of excipients , including natural and artificial flavors and may induce serious hypersensitivity reactions .
The manifestations include hypotension , bronchospasm and other respiratory impairments , dermal reactions including rashes , urticaria , and itching .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent may increase the risk for hypersensitivity reactions .
Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 2 Intra - abdominal Barium Leakage The use of READI - CAT 2 products is contraindicated in patients at high risk of perforation of the GI tract [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of READI - CAT 2 products may result in leakage of barium from the GI tract in the presence of conditions such as carcinomas , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , or diverticulitis , and in patients with a severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , especially if it is distal to the stomach .
The barium leakage has been associated with peritonitis and granuloma formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Gastrointestinal Transit and Obstruction Orally administered barium sulfate may accumulate proximal to a constricting lesion of the colon , causing obstruction or impaction with development of baroliths ( inspissated barium associated with feces ) and may lead to abdominal pain , appendicitis , bowel obstruction , or rarely perforation .
Patients with the following conditions are at higher risk for developing obstruction or baroliths : severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , impaired GI motility , electrolyte imbalance , dehydration , on a low residue diet , taking medications that delay GI motility , and constipation , pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease , and the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
To reduce the risk of delayed GI transit and obstruction , patients should maintain adequate hydration following a barium sulfate procedure .
5 . 4 Aspiration Pneumonitis The use of READI - CAT 2 products is contraindicated in patients at high risk of aspiration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oral administration of barium is associated with aspiration pneumonitis , especially in patients with a history of food aspiration or with compromised swallowing mechanism .
Vomiting following oral administration of barium sulfate may lead to aspiration pneumonitis .
In patients at risk for aspiration , begin the procedure with a small ingested volume of READI - CAT 2 products .
Discontinue administration of READI - CAT 2 products immediately if aspiration is suspected .
5 . 5 Systemic Embolization Barium sulfate products may occasionally intravasate into the venous drainage of the large bowel and enter the circulation as a " barium embolus " leading to potentially fatal complications which include systemic and pulmonary embolism , disseminated intravascular coagulation , septicemia and prolonged severe hypotension .
Although this complication is exceedingly uncommon after oral administration of barium sulfate suspension , monitor patients for potential intravasation when administering barium sulfate .
5 . 6 Risk with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance READI - CAT 2 contains sorbitol which may cause severe reactions if ingested by patients with hereditary fructose intolerance , such as : vomiting , hypoglycemia , jaundice , hemorrhage , hepatomegaly , hyperuricemia , and kidney failure .
Before administration of READI - CAT 2 assess patients for a history of hereditary fructose intolerance and avoid use in these patients .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reporting or clinical studies of barium sulfate administered orally .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping • Serious adverse reactions and fatalities include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , intestinal perforation with consequent peritonitis and granuloma formation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes Common adverse reactions include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USES IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary READI - CAT 2 products are not absorbed systemically following oral administration , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary READI - CAT 2 products are not absorbed systemically by the mother following oral administration , and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to READI - CAT 2 .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The efficacy of READI - CAT 2 in pediatric patients of all groups is based on successful opacification of the GI tract during radiographic procedures [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
READI - CAT 2 is contraindicated in pediatric patients with tracheo - esophageal fistula [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with a history of asthma or food allergies may be at increased risk for development of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease should be monitored for bowel obstruction after use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of READI - CAT 2 products do not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION READI - CAT 2 and READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE ( barium sulfate ) are radiographic contrast agents supplied as a suspension ( 2 % w / v ) for oral administration .
The active ingredient barium sulfate is designated chemically as BaSO4 with a molecular weight of 233 . 4 g / mol , a density of 4 . 5 g / cm3 , and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] READI - CAT 2 products contain excipients including : benzoic acid , citric acid , potassium sorbate , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , xanthan gum , and purified water .
READI - CAT 2 products also contain natural and artificial flavorings including : banana , blueberry , orange , vanilla , chocolate , and coffee flavors .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Due to its high atomic number , barium ( the active ingredient in READI - CAT 2 products ) is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Under physiological conditions , barium sulfate passes through the GI tract in an unchanged form and is absorbed only in pharmacologically insignificant amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of barium sulfate or potential effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied READI - CAT 2 and READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIES ( barium sulfate ) are supplied as suspensions ( 2 % w / v ) in a unit dose in a single - dose HDPE plastic bottle containing 9 grams of barium sulfate in 450 mL .
READI - CAT 2 products are provided in the following flavors as : READI - CAT 2 : ( Orange ) : 12 x 450 mL bottles ( NDC 32909 - 744 - 03 ) READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE ( Banana ) : 12 x 450 mL bottles ( NDC 32909 - 742 - 03 ) READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE ( Berry ) : 12 x 450 mL bottles ( NDC 32909 - 741 - 03 ) READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE ( Creamy Vanilla ) : 12 x 450 mL bottles ( NDC 32909 - 746 - 03 ) READI - CAT 2 SMOOTHIE ( Mochaccino ) : 12 x 450 mL bottles ( NDC 32909 - 747 - 03 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at USP controlled room temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION After administration advise patients to : • Maintain adequate hydration • Seek medical attention for worsening of constipation or slow gastrointestinal passage • Seek medical attention for any delayed onset of hypersensitivity : rash , urticaria , or respiratory difficulty .
Manufactured by EZEM Canada Inc Anjou ( Quebec ) Canada H1J 2Z4 For Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 Revised January 2020 CL10E801 Readi – Cat ® 2 Barium Sulfate Suspension Labels NDC : 32909 - 744 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Readi – Cat ® 2 Barium Sulfate Suspension Labels — Banana Smoothie NDC : 32909 - 742 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Readi – Cat ® 2 Barium Sulfate Suspension Labels NDC : 32909 - 741 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Readi – Cat ® 2 Barium Sulfate Suspension Labels NDC : 32909 - 747 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Readi – Cat ® 2 Barium Sulfate Suspension Labels NDC : 32909 - 746 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
