Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 . 0 % w / w ......
Purpose : Topical anesthetic Menthol 1 . 0 % w / w ......
Purpose : Topical analgesic Purposes Topical anesthetic ( Lidocaine ) Topical analgesic ( Menthol ) Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain Warnings For external use only When using this product • Use only as directed • Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • Do not allow contact with the eyes • Do not use at the same time as other analgesics • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not microwave • Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Do not use • More than one patch on your body at a time • On cut , irritated or swollen skin • On puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor • If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • If pouch is damaged or opened .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • Condition worsen • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • You experience signs of skin injury such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product applied .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adult and Children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area .
Carefully remove backing from patch starting at a corner .
Apply stickly side of patch to affected area .
Use one patch for up to 12 hours .
Children under 12 years of age : Consult a physician .
Inactive ingredients Glycerin , Sodium Polyacrylate , Dihydroxyaluminium Aminoacetate , Edetate Disodium , Kaolin , Titanium Dioxide , Polysorbate 80 , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , L ( + ) - Tartaric Acid , Polyacrylic Acid , PolyvinylPyrrolidone K90 , Hydroxyacetophenone , Water Other information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
