Active ingredient Purpose Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % ................................................. Nasal Decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor .
Shake well before use .
Remove safety seal .
To open , rotate cap to align the marks .
Squeeze cap on both sides in a counter - clockwise turn and pull off to remove .
To spray , remove clamp and hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
Without tilting the head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use and snap cap back onto bottle .
Other information • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , edetate disodium , polyethylene glycol 1500 , povidone k30 , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Monohydrate Distributed By : United Exchange Corp Cypress , CA 90630 USA 1 - 888 - 645 - 8204 Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
