NOT FOR INJECTION DESCRIPTION Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is a concentrated sterile antibiotic solution to be diluted for urinary bladder irrigation .
Each mL contains neomycin sulfate equivalent to 40 mg neomycin base , 200 , 000 units polymyxin B sulfate , and Water for Injection , inactive ingredient : sulfuric acid .
The 20 - mL multiple dose vial contains , in addition to the above , 1 mg methylparaben ( 0 . 1 % ) added as a preservative .
Neomycin sulfate , an antibiotic of the aminoglycoside group , is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C produced by Streptomyces fradiae .
It has a potency equivalent to not less than 600 mcg of neomycin per mg .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate , a polypeptide antibiotic , is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B 1 and B 2 produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After prophylactic irrigation of the intact urinary bladder , neomycin and polymyxin B are absorbed in clinically insignificant quantities .
A neomycin serum level of 0 . 1 mcg / mL was observed in three of 33 patients receiving the rinse solution .
This level is well below that which has been associated with neomycin - induced toxicity .
When used topically , polymyxin B sulfate and neomycin are rarely irritating .
Microbiology The prepared Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is bactericidal .
The aminoglycosides act by inhibiting normal protein synthesis in susceptible microorganisms .
Polymyxins increase the permeability of bacterial cell wall membranes .
The solution is active in vitro against : Escherichia coli Staphylococcus aureus Haemophilus influenzae Klebsiella and Enterobacter species Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa It is not active in vitro against Serratia marcescens and streptococci .
Bacterial resistance may develop following the use of the antibiotics in the catheter - rinse solution .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is indicated for short - term use ( up to 10 days ) as a continuous irrigant or rinse in the urinary bladder of abacteriuric patients to help prevent bacteriuria and gram - negative rod septicemia associated with the use of indwelling catheters .
Since organisms gain entrance to the bladder by way of , through , and around the catheter , significant bacteriuria is induced by bacterial multiplication in the bladder urine , in the mucoid film often present between catheter and urethra , and in other sites .
Urinary tract infection may result from the repeated presence in the urine of large numbers of pathogenic bacteria .
The use of closed systems with indwelling catheters has been shown to reduce the risk of infection .
A three - way closed catheter system with constant neomycin - polymyxin B bladder rinse is indicated to prevent the development of infection while using indwelling catheters .
If uropathogens are isolated , they should be identified and tested for susceptibility so that appropriate antimicrobial therapy for systemic use can be initiated .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to neomycin , the polymyxins , or any ingredient in the solution is a contraindication to its use .
A history of hypersensitivity or serious toxic reaction to an aminoglycoside may also contraindicate the use of any other aminoglycoside because of the known cross - sensitivity of patients to drugs of this class .
WARNINGS PROPHYLACTIC BLADDER CARE WITH NEOMYCIN AND POLYMYXIN B SULFATES SOLUTION FOR IRRIGATION SHOULD NOT BE GIVEN WHERE THERE IS A POSSIBILITY OF SYSTEMIC ABSORPTION .
NEOMYCIN AND POLYMYXIN B SULFATES SOLUTION SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR IRRIGATION OTHER THAN FOR THE URINARY BLADDER .
Systemic absorption after topical application of neomycin to open wounds , burns , and granulating surfaces is significant and serum concentrations comparable to and often higher than those attained following oral and parenteral therapy have been reported .
Absorption of neomycin from the denuded bladder surface has been reported .
However , the likelihood of toxicity following topical irrigation of the intact urinary bladder with Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is low since no appreciable amounts of these antibiotics enter the systemic circulation by this route if irrigation does not exceed 10 days .
Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is intended for continuous prophylactic irrigation of the lumen of the intact urinary bladder of patients with indwelling catheters .
Patients should be under constant supervision by a physician .
Irrigation should be avoided in patients with defects in the bladder mucosa or bladder wall , such as vesical rupture , or in association with operative procedures on the bladder wall , because of the risk of toxicity due to systemic absorption following diffusion into absorptive tissues and spaces .
When absorbed , neomycin and polymyxin B are nephrotoxic antibiotics , and the nephrotoxic potentials are additive .
In addition , both antibiotics , when absorbed , are neurotoxins : neomycin can destroy fibers of the acoustic nerve causing permanent bilateral deafness ; neomycin and polymyxin B are additive in their neuromuscular blocking effects , not only in terms of potency and duration , but also in terms of characteristics of the blocks produced .
Aminoglycosides , when absorbed , can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics cross the placenta and there have been several reports of total , irreversible , bilateral , congenital deafness in children whose mothers received streptomycin during pregnancy .
Although serious side effects have not been reported in the treatment of pregnant women with other aminoglycosides , the potential for harm exists .
If Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation is used during pregnancy , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Ototoxicity , nephrotoxicity , and neuromuscular blockade may occur if Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation ingredients are systemically absorbed ( see WARNINGS ) .
Absorption of neomycin from the denuded bladder surface has been reported .
Patients with impaired renal function , infants , dehydrated patients , elderly patients , and patients receiving high doses of prolonged treatment are especially at risk for the development of toxicity .
Irrigation of the bladder with Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Appropriate measures should be taken if this occurs .
The safety and effectiveness of the preparation for use in the care of patients with recent lower urinary tract surgery have not been established .
Urine specimens should be collected during prophylactic bladder care for urinalysis , culture , and susceptibility testing .
Positive cultures suggest the presence or organisms which are resistant to the bladder rinse antibiotics .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D . See WARNINGS section .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Neomycin occasionally causes skin sensitization when applied topically ; however , topical application to mucus membranes rarely results in local or systemic hypersensitivity reactions .
Irritation of the urinary bladder mucosa has been reported .
Signs of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have been reported following parenteral use of drugs and following the oral and topical use of neomycin ( see WARNINGS ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 390 - 4411 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This preparation is specifically designed for use with “ three - way catheters or with other catheter systems permitting continuous irrigation of the urinary bladder .
The usual irrigation dose is one 1 - mL ampul a day for up to 10 days .
Using strict aseptic techniques , the contents of 1 - mL ampul of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation should be added to a 1 , 000 - mL container of isotonic saline solution .
This container should then be connected to the inflow lumen of the “ three - way ” catheter which has been inserted with full aseptic precautions ; use of a sterile lubricant is recommended during insertion of the catheter .
The outflow lumen should be connected , via a sterile disposable plastic tube , to a disposable plastic collection bag .
Stringent procedures , such as taping the inflow and outflow junction at the catheter , should be observed when necessary to insure the junctional integrity of the system .
For most patients , the inflow rate of the 1 , 000 - mL saline solution of neomycin and polymyxin B should be adjusted to a slow drip to deliver about 1 , 000 mL every 24 hours .
If the patient ’ s urine output exceeds 2 liters per day , it is recommended that the inflow rate be adjusted to deliver 2 , 000 mL of the solution in a 24 - hour period .
It is important that the rinse of the bladder be continuous ; the inflow or rinse solution should not be interrupted for more than a few minutes .
Preparation of the irrigation solution should be performed with strict aseptic techniques .
The prepared solution should be stored at 4 ° C , and should be used within 48 hours following preparation to reduce the risk of contamination with resistant microorganisms .
HOW SUPPLIED Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation are supplied as 1 mL / ampul ( NDC 39822 - 1201 - 1 ) in boxes of 10 ( NDC 39822 - 1201 - 2 ) , 50 ( NDC 39822 - 1201 - 5 ) and 20 mL Multiple Dose Vial in single Vial cartons ( NDC 39822 - 1220 - 1 ) .
Store at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Revised : December 2020 NP - PI - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 39822 - 1201 - 1 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation , USP STERILE 1 mL XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
FOR IRRIGATION USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 1201 - 2 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation , USP STERILE 10 Ampul Carton XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
FOR IRRIGATION USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 1201 - 5 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation , USP STERILE 50 Ampul Carton XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
FOR IRRIGATION USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 1220 - 1 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation , USP STERILE 20 mL XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
FOR IRRIGATION USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 39822 - 1220 - 1 Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates Solution for Irrigation , USP STERILE Single Vial Carton XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , INC .
FOR IRRIGATION USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
