Active ingredients Purpose Mineral oil 14 % .........................................................
Protectant Petrolatum 74 . 9 % ..................................................... Protectant Phenylephrine HCl 0 . 25 % ................................... Vasoconstrictor Uses • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieve burning • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Warnings For external use only / or intrarectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland • diabetes Ask a doctor or a pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression When using this product do not use more than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • condition gets worse or does not get better within 7 days • introduction of applicator into the rectum causes additional pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a physician before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment • when first opening tube , peel back foil seal • apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning or after each bowel movement • intrarectal use : remove cover from applicator , attach applicator to tube , lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum • thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover • also apply ointment to external area • regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients .
alpha . - tocopherol acetate , alcohol , glycerin , lanolin , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , propylparaben , stearyl alcohol , thyme oil , purified water , white wax Distributed by : United Exchange Corp Cypress , CA 90630 USA Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
