FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION Rx Only DESCRIPTION MULTITRACE ® - 5 ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 5 , USP ) is a sterile nonpyrogenic solution containing five Trace Elements for use as an additive for Total Parenteral Nutrition ( TPN ) .
Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 4 mg , Manganese 0 . 1 mg , Chromium 4 mcg and Selenium 20 mcg .
Each mL Contains : Zinc Sulfate Heptahydrate 4 . 39 mg ( equivalent to 1 mg Zinc ) ; Cupric Sulfate Pentahydrate 1 . 57 mg ( equivalent to 0 . 4 mg Copper ) ; Manganese Sulfate Monohydrate 0 . 308 mg ( equivalent to 0 . 1 mg Manganese ) ; Chromic Chloride Hexahydrate 20 . 5 mcg ( equivalent to 4 mcg Chromium ) ; Selenious Acid 32 . 7 mcg ( equivalent to 20 mcg Selenium ) ; and Water for Injection q . s . pH may be adjusted with Sulfuric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
0 . 9 % Benzyl Alcohol added as an antimicrobial preservative .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ZINC has been identified as a cofactor for over 70 different enzymes , including alkaline phosphatase , lactic dehydrogenase and both RNA and DNA polymerase .
Zinc facilitates wound healing , helps maintain normal growth rates , normal skin hydration and senses of taste and smell .
Providing zinc during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : parakeratosis , hypogeusia , anorexia , dysosmia , geophagia , hypogonadism , growth retardation and hepatosplenomegaly .
At plasma levels below 20 mcg zinc / 100 mL , dermatitis followed by alopecia has been reported for TPN patients .
COPPER is essential as a cofactor for serum ceruloplasmin , an oxidase necessary for proper formation of the iron carrier protein , transferrin .
Copper also helps maintain normal rates of red and white blood cell formation .
Scorbutic type bone changes seen in infants fed exclusively with copper - poor cow ' s milk are believed due to decreased activity of ascorbate oxidase , a cuproenzyme .
Providing copper during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : leukopenia , neutropenia , anemia , depressed ceruloplasmin levels , impaired transferrin formation and secondary iron deficiency .
MANGANESE is an activator for enzymes such as polysaccharide polymerase , liver arginase , cholinesterase and pyruvate carboxylase .
Providing manganese during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : nausea and vomiting , weight loss , dermatitis , and changes in growth and color of hair .
CHROMIUM ( trivalent ) is part of glucose tolerance factor , an activator of insulin - mediated reactions .
Chromium helps to maintain normal glucose metabolism and peripheral nerve function .
Providing chromium during TPN prevents development of the following deficiency symptoms : impaired glucose tolerance , ataxia , peripheral neuropathy and a confusional state similar to mild / moderate hepatic encephalopathy .
SELENIUM is part of glutathione peroxidase which protects cell components from oxidative damage due to peroxides produced in cellular metabolism .
Prolonged TPN support in humans has resulted in selenium deficiency symptoms which include muscle pain and tenderness .
The symptoms have been reported to respond to supplementation of TPN solutions with selenium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This formulation is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN .
Administration of the solution in TPN solutions helps to maintain plasma levels of zinc , copper , manganese , selenium and chromium and to prevent depletion of endogenous stores of these trace elements and subsequent deficiency symptoms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS MULTITRACE ® - 5 should not be given undiluted by direct injection into a peripheral vein because of the potential of infusion phlebitis .
WARNINGS Copper and Manganese are eliminated via the bile .
In patients with severe liver dysfunction and / or biliary tract obstruction , decreasing or omitting copper and manganese supplements entirely may be necessary .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Before administering MULTITRACE ® - 5 in TPN solutions , the physician must assess the metabolic requirements for trace elements and disease state of the patient .
Frequent determinations of serum levels of the various trace elements are suggested as a guideline for adjusting the dosage or completely omitting the solution .
ZINC is eliminated via the intestine and kidneys .
The possibility of retention should be considered in patients with malfunctioning excretory routes .
COPPER and MANGANESE are eliminated via the bile , therefore the possibility of retention of these elements should be considered in patients with biliary obstruction .
Ancillary routes of MANGANESE excretion , however , include pancreatic juice , or reabsorption into the lumen of duodenum , jejunum , or ileum .
In assessing the contribution of CHROMIUM supplements to maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis , consideration should be given to the possibility that the patient may be diabetic , in which case oral or intravenous antidiabetic medication may be indicated .
As SELENIUM is eliminated in urine and feces , SELENIUM supplements may be adjusted , reduced or omitted in renal dysfunction and / or gastrointestinal malfunction .
In patients receiving blood transfusions , contribution from such transfusions should also be considered .
Frequent selenium plasma level determinations are suggested as a guideline .
In animals , SELENIUM has been reported to enhance the action of Vitamin E and decrease the toxicity of mercury , cadmium , and arsenic .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : SELENIUM at high dosage levels ( 15 - 30 mcg / egg ) has been reported to have adverse embryological effects among chickens .
There are however no adequate and wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women .
MULTITRACE ® - 5 should be used during pregnancy only if potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Presence of SELENIUM in placenta and umbilical cord blood has been reported in humans .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The amounts of ZINC , COPPER , MANGANESE , CHROMIUM and SELENIUM in the solution are very small and toxicity symptoms due to these trace elements at suggested dosage levels are considered unlikely to occur .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of ZINC overdosage resulting from oral ingestion of Zinc Sulfate in large amounts have resulted in death .
Symptoms included nausea , vomiting , dehydration , electrolyte imbalances , dizziness , abdominal pain , lethargy and incoordination .
Single intravenous doses of 1 to 2 mg zinc / kg body weight have been given to adult leukemic patients without toxic manifestations .
Normal plasma levels for Zinc vary from approximately 88 to 112 mcg / 100 mL .
Plasma levels sufficient to produce symptoms of toxic manifestations are not known .
Calcium supplements may confer a protective effect against Zinc toxicity .
Symptoms of COPPER toxicity reported in literature include prostration , behavior change , diarrhea , progressive marasmus , hypotonia , photophobia and peripheral edema .
D - penicillamine has been reported effective as an antidote .
MANGANESE toxicity has not been reported in patients receiving TPN .
Neither have reports of manganese toxicity from excessive intake in foods and / or beverages been published .
Symptoms of CHROMIUM toxicity include nausea , vomiting , ulcers of gastrointestinal tract , renal and hepatic damage , and abnormalities of the central nervous system culminating in convulsions and coma .
Trivalent Chromium administered intravenously to TPN patients has been shown to be nontoxic when given at dosage levels up to 250 mcg / day for two consecutive weeks .
Chronic toxicity in humans resulting from exposure to SELENIUM in industrial environments , intake of foods grown in seleniferous soils , use of selenium contaminated water , and application of cosmetics containing selenium has been reported in literature .
Toxicity symptoms include hair loss , weakened nails , dermatitis , dental defects , gastrointestinal disorders , nervousness , mental depression , metallic taste , vomiting , and garlic odor of breath and sweat .
Acute poisoning due to ingestion of large amounts of selenium compounds has resulted in death with histopathological changes including fulminating peripheral vascular collapse , internal vascular congestion , diffusely hemorrhagic , congested and edematous lungs , brick - red color gastric mucosa .
The death was preceded by coma .
No effective antidote to selenium poisoning in humans is known .
Animal studies have shown casein and linseed oil in feeds , reduced glutathione , arsenic , magnesium sulfate , and bromobenzene to afford limited protection .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Each mL of the solution provides Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 4 mg , Manganese 0 . 1 mg , Chromium 4 mcg , and Selenium 20 mcg .
The suggested dosage ranges for the five trace elements are : ZINC : For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested intravenous dosage level is 2 . 5 to 4 mg zinc / day .
An additional 2 mg zinc / day is suggested for acute catabolic states .
For the stable adult with fluid loss from the small bowel , an additional 12 . 2 mg zinc / liter of small bowel fluid lost , or an additional 17 . 1 mg zinc / kg of stool or ileostomy output is recommended .
Frequent monitoring of zinc blood levels is suggested for patients receiving more than the usual maintenance dosage level of zinc .
Normal plasma levels for zinc vary from approximately 88 to 112 mcg / 100 mL .
For full term infants and children up to 5 years of age , 100 mcg zinc / kg / day is recommended .
For premature infants ( birth weight less than 1500 g ) up to 3 kg in body weight , 300 mcg zinc / kg / day is suggested .
COPPER : For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage level is 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 mg copper / day .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 20 mcg copper / kg / day .
The normal plasma range for copper is approximately 80 to 160 mcg / 100 mL .
MANGANESE : For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage level for manganese is 0 . 15 mg to 0 . 8 mg / day .
For pediatric patients , a dosage level of 2 to 10 mcg manganese / kg / day is recommended .
CHROMIUM : For the metabolically stable adult receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage level is 10 to 15 mcg chromium / day .
The metabolically stable adult with intestinal fluid loss may require 20 mcg chromium / day , with frequent monitoring of blood levels as a guideline for subsequent administration .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 0 . 14 to 0 . 20 mcg / kg / day .
SELENIUM : For metabolically stable adults receiving TPN , the suggested additive dosage level is 20 to 40 mcg selenium / day .
For pediatric patients , the suggested additive dosage level is 3 mcg / kg / day .
In adults , selenium deficiency states resulting from long term TPN support , selenium as selenomethionine or selenious acid , administered intravenously at 100 mcg / day for a period of 24 and 31 days , respectively , has been reported to reverse deficiency symptoms without toxicity .
The normal whole blood range for selenium is approximately 10 to 37 mcg / 100 mL .
Periodic monitoring of plasma levels of Zinc , Copper , Manganese , Chromium and Selenium is suggested as a guideline for administration .
Aseptic addition of MULTITRACE ® - 5 to parenteral nutrition solutions under laminar flow hood is recommended .
The trace elements present in MULTITRACE ® - 5 are physically compatible with the electrolytes and vitamins usually present in parenteral nutrition formulations .
Do not directly mix ascorbic acid injection with copper or selenium containing parenteral products in the same syringe or vial , as this admixture may cause the formation of an insoluble precipitate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
HOW SUPPLIED MULTITRACE ® - 5 ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 5 , USP ) Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 4 mg , Manganese 0 . 1 mg , Chromium 4 mcg , Selenium 20 mcg .
NDC 0517 - 8510 - 25 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial * Packaged in boxes of 25 * Contains 0 . 9 % benzyl alcohol as an antimicrobial preservative .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN8510 Rev . 8 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container NDC 0517 - 8510 - 25 MULTITRACE ® - 5 ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 5 , USP ) 10 mL MULTIPLE DOSE VIAL FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton MULTITRACE ® - 5 ( TRACE ELEMENTS INJECTION 5 , USP ) NDC 0517 - 8510 - 25 25 x 10 mL MULTIPLE DOSE VIALS FOR IV USE AFTER DILUTION Rx Only Each mL provides : Zinc 1 mg , Copper 0 . 4 mg , Manganese 0 . 1 mg , Chromium 4 mcg and Selenium 20 mcg .
Each mL contains : Zinc Sulfate ( Heptahydrate ) 4 . 39 mg , Cupric Sulfate ( Pentahydrate ) 1 . 57 mg , Manganese Sulfate ( Monohydrate ) 0 . 308 mg , Chromic Chloride ( Hexahydrate ) 20 . 5 mcg , Selenious Acid 32 . 7 mcg , Benzyl Alcohol 0 . 9 % as an antimicrobial preservative , and Water for Injection q . s . pH may be adjusted with Sulfuric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
AMERICAN REGENT , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 Rev . 11 / 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serialization Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
