1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Torsemide tablets are a loop diuretic indicated for : • the treatment of edema associated with heart failure , renal disease or hepatic disease .
( 1 . 1 ) • the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Edema Torsemide tablets are indicated for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure , renal disease or hepatic disease .
1 . 2 Hypertension Torsemide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with torsemide .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
The antihypertensive effects of torsemide are on the average greater in black patients than in nonblack patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Torsemide can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema associated with : • Heart failure : Initial dose is 10 or 20 mg once daily .
Titrate by factors of two ; doses above 200 mg have not been studied .
( 2 . 1 ) • Chronic Renal Failure : Initial dose is 20 mg once daily .
Titrate by factors of two ; doses above 200 mg have not been studied .
( 2 . 1 ) • Hepatic Cirrhosis : Initial dose is 5 or 10 mg once daily .
Titrate by factors of two ; doses above 40 mg have not been studied .
( 2 . 1 ) Hypertension : • The recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
After 4 to 6 weeks , increase to 10 mg once daily , if needed .
If 10 mg is insufficient , consider adding another agent .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Treatment of Edema Edema associated with heart failure The recommended initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , titrate upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied .
Edema associated with chronic renal failure The recommended initial dose is 20 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , titrate upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied .
Edema associated with hepatic cirrhosis The recommended initial dose is 5 mg or 10 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily , administered together with an aldosterone antagonist or a potassium - sparing diuretic .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , titrate upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Doses higher than 40 mg have not been adequately studied in this population .
2 . 2 Treatment of Hypertension The recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
If the 5 mg dose does not provide adequate reduction in blood pressure within 4 to 6 weeks , increase to 10 mg once daily .
If the response to 10 mg is insufficient , add another antihypertensive agent to the treatment regimen .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Torsemide Tablets are available as white to off white scored tablets in 5 - , 10 - , 20 - , and 100 - mg strengths .
Tablets : 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg and 100 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Torsemide is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to torsemide .
Torsemide is contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
Torsemide is contraindicated in patients with hepatic coma .
Hypersensitivity to torsemide , anuria , and hepatic coma .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypotension and worsening renal function : monitor volume status and renal function periodically ( 5 . 1 ) • Electrolyte and metabolic abnormalities : monitor serum electrolytes and blood glucose periodically .
( 5 . 2 ) • Ototoxicity ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function Excessive diuresis may cause potentially symptomatic dehydration , blood volume reduction and hypotension and worsening renal function , including acute renal failure particularly in salt - depleted patients or those taking renin - angiotensin aldosterone inhibitors .
Worsening of renal function can also occur with concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides , cisplatin , and NSAIDs ) .
Monitor volume status and renal function periodically .
5 . 2 Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities Torsemide can cause potentially symptomatic hypokalemia , hyponatremia , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , and hypochloremic alkalosis .
Treatment with torsemide can cause an increase in blood glucose levels and hyperglycemia .
Asymptomatic hyperuricemia can occur and gout may rarely be precipitated .
Monitor serum electrolytes and blood glucose periodically .
5 . 3 Ototoxicity Tinnitus and hearing loss ( usually reversible ) have been observed with loop diuretics , including torsemide .
Higher than recommended doses , severe renal impairment , and hypoproteinemia , appear to increase the risk of ototoxicity .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following risks are discussed in more detail in other sections : • Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Ototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reaction is excessive urination ( 6 . 7 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 832 - 8537 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In pre - approval studies , torsemide has been evaluated for safety in approximately 4000 subjects ; over 800 of these subjects received torsemide for at least 6 months , and over 380 were treated for more than 1 year .
Among these subjects were 564 who received torsemide during United States - based trials in which 274 other subjects received placebo .
Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 5 % of United States patients treated with torsemide and in 4 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo .
In United States placebo - controlled trials excessive urination occurred in 6 . 7 % of patients compared with 2 . 2 % of patients receiving placebo .
The daily doses of torsemide used in these trials ranged from 1 . 25 mg to 20 mg , with most patients receiving 5 mg to 10 mg ; the duration of treatment ranged from 1 to 52 days , with a median of 41 days .
In the placebo - controlled hypertension studies excessive urination was dose related ; 1 % of patients receiving placebo , 4 % of those treated with 5 mg of daily torsemide , and 15 % of those treated with 10 mg .
Excessive urination was generally not reported as an adverse event among patients who received torsemide for cardiac , renal , or hepatic failure .
There was no effect of age or sex on the incidence of adverse reactions .
Laboratory Parameters Potassium In controlled studies in the United States , torsemide was administered to hypertensive patients at doses of 5 mg or 10 mg daily .
After 6 weeks at these doses , the mean decrease in serum potassium was approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L .
The percentage of patients who had a serum potassium level below 3 . 5 mEq / L at any time during the studies was 1 . 5 % on torsemide and 3 % on placebo .
In patients followed for 1 year , there was no progressive change in mean serum potassium levels .
In patients with congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , or renal disease treated with torsemide at doses higher than those studied in United States antihypertensive trials , hypokalemia was observed with greater frequency , in a dose - related manner .
Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) , Creatinine and Uric Acid Torsemide produces small dose - related increases in each of these laboratory values .
In hypertensive patients who received 10 mg of torsemide daily for 6 weeks , the mean increase in blood urea nitrogen was 1 . 8 mg / dL ( 0 . 6 mmol / L ) , the mean increase in serum creatinine was 0 . 05 mg / dL ( 4 mmol / L ) , and the mean increase in serum uric acid was 1 . 2 mg / dL ( 70 mmol / L ) .
Little further change occurred with long - term treatment , and all changes reversed when treatment was discontinued .
Glucose Hypertensive patients who received 10 mg of daily torsemide experienced a mean increase in serum glucose concentration of 5 . 5 mg / dL ( 0 . 3 mmol / L ) after 6 weeks of therapy , with a further increase of 1 . 8 mg / dL ( 0 . 1 mmol / L ) during the subsequent year .
In long - term studies in diabetics , mean fasting glucose values were not significantly changed from baseline .
Serum Lipids Torsemide 20 mg caused small increases in total cholesterol and triglycerides in short term hypertension studies .
The changes subsided with chronic therapy .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post - approval use of torsemide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal system : Pancreatitis , abdominal pain Nervous System : Paresthesia , confusion , visual impairment , loss of appetite Hematologic : Leucopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia Hepatobiliary : Increase in liver transaminases , gamma - glutamyltransferase Metabolism : Thiamine ( vitamin B1 ) deficiency Skin / hypersensitivity : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , photosensitivity reaction , pruritus Urogenital : Acute urinary retention 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Reduced diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects ; risk of renal impairment .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP2C9 : Concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors can decrease torsemide clearance .
Torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range , such as warfarin or phenytoin .
( 7 . 2 ) • Cholestyramine : Decreased exposure of torsemide .
( 7 . 3 ) • Organic anion drugs : may decrease diuretic activity of torsemide .
( 7 . 4 ) • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 5 ) • Renin - angiotensin inhibitors : Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment .
( 7 . 7 ) • Radiocontrast agents : Increased risk of renal toxicity .
( 7 . 8 ) • Corticosteroids and ACTH : Increased risk of hypokalemia .
( 7 . 9 ) 7 . 1 Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs Because torsemide and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules , patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when torsemide is concomitantly administered .
Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) and torsemide has been associated with the development of acute renal failure .
The antihypertensive and diuretic effects of torsemide can be reduced by NSAIDs .
Partial inhibition of the natriuretic effect of torsemide by concomitant administration of indomethacin has been demonstrated for torsemide under conditions of dietary sodium restriction ( 50 mEq / day ) but not in the presence of normal sodium intake ( 150 mEq / day ) .
7 . 2 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Inhibitors and Inducers Torsemide is a substrate of CYP2C9 .
Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors ( e . g . , amiodarone , fluconazole , miconazole , oxandrolone ) can decrease torsemide clearance and increase torsemide plasma concentrations .
Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers ( e . g . , rifampin ) increase torsemide clearance and decrease plasma torsemide concentrations .
Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure when used in combination with CYP2C9 inhibitor or inducer .
Adjust torsemide dose if necessary .
Because of its inhibition of CYP2C9 metabolism , torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates , such as celecoxib , or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range , such as warfarin or phenytoin .
Monitor patients and adjust dosages if necessary .
7 . 3 Cholestyramine Concomitant use of torsemide and cholestyramine has not been studied in humans but , in a study in animals , coadministration of cholestyramine decreased the absorption of orally administered torsemide .
If torsemide and cholestyramine should be coadministered , administer torsemide at least one hour before or 4 to 6 h after cholestyramine administration .
7 . 4 Organic Anion Drugs Coadministration of organic anion drugs ( e . g . , probenecid ) that undergo significant renal tubular secretion have the potential to reduce secretion of torsemide into the proximal tubule and thereby decreases the diuretic activity of torsemide .
Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure during coadministration .
7 . 5 Lithium Like other diuretics , torsemide reduces the renal clearance of lithium , inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity .
Monitor lithium levels periodically when torsemide is coadministered .
7 . 6 Ototoxic Drugs Loop diuretics increase the ototoxic potential of other ototoxic drugs , including aminoglycoside antibiotics and ethacrynic acid .
This effect has been reported with concomitant use of torsemide and gentamycin .
Avoid concomitant use of torsemide and aminoglycoside antibiotics , if possible .
7 . 7 Renin - angiotensin Inhibitors Coadministration of torsemide with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers can increase the risk of hypotension and renal impairment .
7 . 8 Radiocontrast Agents Torsemide can increase the risk of renal toxicity related to administration of radiocontrast agents .
7 . 9 Corticosteroids and ACTH Concomitant use with torsemide may increase risk of hypokalemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on use of torsemide in pregnant women and the risk of major birth defects or miscarriage .
In pregnant rats and rabbits dosed , on a mg / m2 basis , with 10 and 1 . 7 times a human dose of 20 mg / day , respectively , there was no fetotoxicity or teratogenicity .
However , in pregnant rats and rabbits administered 50 and 6 . 8 times the human dose , respectively , decreases in body weight , decreased fetal resorption and delayed fetal ossification was observed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major malformations and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % , and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data There was no fetotoxicity or teratogenicity in rats treated with up to 5 mg / kg / day of torsemide ( on a mg / kg basis , this is 15 times a human dose of 20 mg / day ; on a mg / m2 basis , the animal dose is 10 times the human dose ) , or in rabbits , treated with 1 . 6 mg / kg / day ( on a mg / kg basis , 5 times the human dose of 20 mg / kg / day ; on a mg / m2 basis , 1 . 7 times this dose ) .
Fetal and maternal toxicity ( decrease in average body weight , increase in fetal resorption and delayed fetal ossification ) occurred in rabbits and rats given doses 4 ( rabbits ) and 5 ( rats ) times larger .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data regarding the presence of torsemide in human milk or the effects of torsemide on the breastfed child .
Diuretics can suppress lactation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Administration of another loop diuretic to premature infants has been associated with the precipitation of nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis .
Nephrocalcinosis / nephrolithiasis has also been observed in children under 4 years of age with no history of prematurity who have been treated chronically with the other loop diuretic .
The other loop diuretic , when administered during the first weeks of life , has also been reported to increase the risk of persistent patent ductus arteriosus .
The use of torsemide in such patients has not been studied .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received torsemide in United States clinical studies , 24 % were 65 or older while about 4 % were 75 or older .
No specific age - related differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between younger patients and elderly patients .
8 . 6 Use in Renal Impairment In single - dose studies in patients with non - anuric renal failure , high doses of torsemide ( 20 mg to 200 mg ) caused marked increases in water and sodium excretion .
In patients with non - anuric renal failure , severe enough to require hemodialysis , chronic treatment with up to 200 mg of daily torsemide has not been shown to change steady - state fluid retention .
When patients in a study of acute renal failure received total daily doses of 520 mg to 1200 mg of torsemide , 19 % experienced seizures .
Ninety - six patients were treated in this study ; 6 / 32 treated with torsemide experienced seizures , 6 / 32 treated with comparably high doses of furosemide experienced seizures , and 1 / 32 treated with placebo experienced a seizure .
8 . 7 Use in Hepatic Impairment Torsemide can cause sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance which may precipitate hepatic coma in patients with hepatic disease with cirrhosis and ascites .
In these patients , diuresis with torsemide is best initiated in the hospital .
Diuretic treatment can cause or contribute to the development of hypovolemia , hypokalemia , metabolic alkalosis , hyponatremia or azotemia which can lead to new or worsening hepatic encephalopathy .
Consider suspending or discontinuing torsemide [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
To prevent hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis , use an aldosterone antagonist or potassium - sparing drug with torsemide in patients with hepatic disease .
When given with aldosterone antagonists , torsemide also caused increases in sodium and fluid excretion in patients with edema or ascites due to hepatic cirrhosis .
Urinary sodium excretion rate relative to the urinary excretion rate of torsemide is less in cirrhotic patients than in healthy subjects ( possibly because of the hyperaldosteronism and resultant sodium retention that are characteristic of portal hypertension and ascites ) .
However , because of the increased renal clearance of torsemide in patients with hepatic cirrhosis , these factors tend to balance each other , and the result is an overall natriuretic response that is similar to that seen in healthy subjects .
Chronic use of any diuretic in hepatic disease has not been studied in adequate and well - controlled trials .
10 OVERDOSE The signs and symptoms of overdosage can be anticipated to include those of excessive pharmacologic effect : dehydration , hypovolemia , hypotension , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hemoconcentration .
Treatment of overdosage should consist of fluid and electrolyte replacement .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of torsemide and its metabolites are not widely available .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of torsemide and its metabolites .
Torsemide is not dialyzable , so hemodialysis will not accelerate elimination .
11 DESCRIPTION Torsemide , USP is a diuretic of the pyridine - sulfonylurea class .
Its chemical name is 1 - isopropyl - 3 - [ ( 4 - m - toluidino - 3 - pyridyl ) sulfonyl ] urea and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C16H20N4O3S M . W . 348 . 43 Its pKa is 7 . 1 .
Torsemide , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
Each Torsemide Tablet for oral administration contains 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg or 100 mg of torsemide , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Micropuncture studies in animals have shown that torsemide acts from within the lumen of the thick ascending portion of the loop of Henle , where it inhibits the Na + / K + / 2 Cl – - carrier system .
Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed this site of action in humans , and effects in other segments of the nephron have not been demonstrated .
Diuretic activity thus correlates better with the rate of drug excretion in the urine than with the concentration in the blood .
Torsemide increases the urinary excretion of sodium , chloride , and water , but it does not significantly alter glomerular filtration rate , renal plasma flow , or acid - base balance .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics With oral dosing , the onset of diuresis occurs within 1 hour and the peak effect occurs during the first or second hour and diuresis lasts about 6 to 8 hours .
In healthy subjects given single doses , the dose - response relationship for sodium excretion is linear over the dose range of 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg .
The increase in potassium excretion is negligible after a single dose of up to 10 mg and only slight ( 5 mEq to 15 mEq ) after a single dose of 20 mg .
Edema Torsemide has been studied in controlled trials in patients with New York Heart Association Class II to Class IV heart failure .
Patients who received 10 mg to 20 mg of daily torsemide in these studies achieved significantly greater reductions in weight and edema than did patients who received placebo .
Hypertension In patients with essential hypertension , torsemide has been shown in controlled studies to lower blood pressure when administered once a day at doses of 5 mg to 10 mg .
The antihypertensive effect is near maximal after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment , but it may continue to increase for up to 12 weeks .
Systolic and diastolic supine and standing blood pressures are all reduced .
There is no significant orthostatic effect , and there is only a minimal peak - trough difference in blood pressure reduction .
The antihypertensive effects of torsemide are , like those of other diuretics , on the average greater in black patients ( a low - renin population ) than in nonblack patients .
When torsemide is first administered , daily urinary sodium excretion increases for at least a week .
With chronic administration , however , daily sodium loss comes into balance with dietary sodium intake .
If the administration of torsemide is suddenly stopped , blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels over several days , without overshoot .
Torsemide has been administered together with β - adrenergic blocking agents , ACE inhibitors , and calcium - channel blockers .
Adverse drug interactions have not been observed , and special dosage adjustment has not been necessary .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The bioavailability of torsemide tablets is approximately 80 % , with small inter - subject variation ; the 90 % confidence interval is 75 % to 89 % .
The drug is absorbed with little first - pass metabolism , and the serum concentration reaches its peak ( Cmax ) within 1 hour after oral administration .
Cmax and area under the serum concentration - time curve ( AUC ) after oral administration are proportional to dose over the range of 2 . 5 mg to 200 mg .
Simultaneous food intake delays the time to Cmax by about 30 minutes , but overall bioavailability ( AUC ) and diuretic activity are unchanged .
Distribution The volume of distribution of torsemide is 12 to 15 liters in normal adults or in patients with mild to moderate renal failure or congestive heart failure .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution is approximately doubled .
Torsemide is extensively bound to plasma protein ( > 99 % ) .
Metabolism Torsemide is metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome CYP2C9 and , to a minor extent , CYP2C8 and CYP2C18 .
Three main metabolites have been identified in humans .
Metabolite M1 is formed by methyl - hydroxylation of torsemide , metabolite M3 is formed by ring hydroxylation of torsemide , and metabolite M5 is formed by oxidation of M1 .
The major metabolite in humans is the carboxylic acid derivative M5 , which is biologically inactive .
Metabolites M1 and M3 possess some pharmacological activity ; however , their systemic exposures are much lower when compared to torsemide .
Elimination In normal subjects the elimination half - life of torsemide is approximately 3 . 5 hours .
Torsemide is cleared from the circulation by both hepatic metabolism ( approximately 80 % of total clearance ) and excretion into the urine ( approximately 20 % of total clearance in patients with normal renal function ) .
Because torsemide is extensively bound to plasma protein ( > 99 % ) , very little enters tubular urine via glomerular filtration .
Most renal clearance of torsemide occurs via active secretion of the drug by the proximal tubules into tubular urine .
After a single oral dose , the amounts recovered in urine were : torsemide 21 % , metabolite M1 12 % , metabolite M3 2 % , and metabolite M5 34 % .
Renal Impairment In patients with renal failure , renal clearance of torsemide is markedly decreased but total plasma clearance is not significantly altered .
A smaller fraction of the administered dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , and the natriuretic action of any given dose of diuretic is reduced .
Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution , plasma half - life , and renal clearance are all increased , but total clearance is unchanged .
Geriatric Patients The renal clearance of torsemide is lower in elderly subjects as compared to younger adults , which is related to the decline in renal function that commonly occurs with aging .
However , total plasma clearance and elimination half - life remain unchanged .
Heart failure In patients with decompensated congestive heart failure , hepatic and renal clearance are both reduced , probably because of hepatic congestion and decreased renal plasma flow , respectively .
The total clearance of torsemide is approximately 50 % of that seen in healthy volunteers , and the plasma half - life and AUC are correspondingly increased .
Because of reduced renal clearance , a smaller fraction of any given dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , so at any given dose there is less natriuresis in patients with heart failure than in normal subjects .
Drug Interactions Digoxin : Coadministration of digoxin is reported to increase the AUC for torsemide by 50 % , but dose adjustment of torsemide is not necessary .
Torsemide does not affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin .
Spironolactone : In healthy subjects , coadministration of torsemide was associated with significant reduction in the renal clearance of spironolactone , with corresponding increases in the AUC .
However , the pharmacokinetic profile and diuretic activity of torsemide are not altered by spironolactone .
Torsemide does not affect the protein binding of glyburide or warfarin .
Cimetidine : The pharmacokinetic profile and diuretic activity of torsemide are not altered by cimetidine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility No overall increase in tumor incidence was found when torsemide was given to rats and mice throughout their lives at doses up to 9 mg / kg / day ( rats ) and 32 mg / kg / day ( mice ) .
On a body - weight basis , these doses are 27 to 96 times a human dose of 20 mg ; on a body - surface - area basis , they are 5 to 8 times this dose .
In the rat study , the high - dose female group demonstrated renal tubular injury , interstitial inflammation , and a statistically significant increase in renal adenomas and carcinomas .
The tumor incidence in this group was , however , not much higher than the incidence sometimes seen in historical controls .
Similar signs of chronic non - neoplastic renal injury have been reported in high - dose animal studies of other diuretics such as furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide .
No mutagenic activity was detected in any of a variety of in vivo and in vitro tests of torsemide and its major human metabolite .
The tests included the Ames test in bacteria ( with and without metabolic activation ) , tests for chromosome aberrations and sister - chromatid exchanges in human lymphocytes , tests for various nuclear anomalies in cells found in hamster and murine bone marrow , tests for unscheduled DNA synthesis in mice and rats , and others .
In doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( 75 times a human dose of 20 mg on a body - weight basis ; 13 times this dose on a body - surface - area basis ) , torsemide had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male or female rats .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Torsemide Tablets are available as follows : 5 mg - White to off white , round , biconvex tablets , debossed with “ PA ” and “ 915 ” on one side and scored on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 50111 - 915 - 01 ) .
10 mg - White to off white , round , biconvex tablets , debossed with “ PA ” and “ 916 ” on one side and scored on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 50111 - 916 - 01 ) .
20 mg - White to off white , round , biconvex tablets , debossed with “ PA ” and “ 917 ” on one side and scored on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 50111 - 917 - 01 ) and 1000 ( NDC 50111 - 917 - 03 ) .
100 mg - White to off white , oval , biconvex tablets , debossed with “ PA ” and “ 918 ” on one side and scored on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 50111 - 918 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Symptomatic Hypotension : Advise patients receiving torsemide that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , torsemide should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAID ) : Advise patients to discuss with their physician before taking NSAID medications concomitantly [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured In Croatia By : Pliva Hrvatska d . o . o . Zagreb , Croatia Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . D 2 / 2017 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Torsemide Tablets 5 mg , 100 s Label Text NDC 50111 - 915 - 01 Torsemide Tablets 5 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Torsemide Tablets 10 mg , 100 s Label Text NDC 50111 - 916 - 01 Torsemide Tablets 10 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Torsemide Tablets 20 mg , 100 s Label Text NDC 50111 - 917 - 01 Torsemide Tablets 20 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Torsemide Tablets 100 mg , 100 s Label Text NDC 50111 - 918 - 01 Torsemide Tablets 100 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA
