For Intranasal Use Only DESCRIPTION : Triamcinolone acetonide , the active ingredient of AllerNaze , is a corticosteroid with the chemical name , 9α - Fluoro - 11β , 16α , 17 , 21 - tetrahydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione cyclic 16 , 17 - acetal with acetone ( C24 H31 FO6 ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triamcinolone acetonide , USP , is a white crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 434 . 51 .
It is practically insoluble in water , and sparingly soluble in dehydrated alcohol , in chloroform and in methanol .
It has a melting point temperature range between 292 ° and 294 ° C . AllerNaze is a metered - dose manual spray pump in an amber polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) bottle with 0 . 05 % w / v triamcinolone acetonide in a solution containing citric acid , edetate disodium , polyethylene glycol 3350 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium citrate , and 0 . 01 % benzalkonium chloride as a preservative .
AllerNaze pH is 5 . 3 .
After initial priming ( three sprays ) of the AllerNaze metered pump delivery system , each spray will deliver 50 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide .
If the pump was not used for more than 14 days , reprime with 3 sprays or until a fine mist is observed .
Each 15 mL bottle contains 7 . 5 mg of triamcinolone acetonide to deliver 120 metered sprays .
After 120 sprays , the amount of triamcinolone acetonide delivered per spray may not be consistent and the bottle should be discarded .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Triamcinolone acetonide is a more potent derivative of triamcinolone .
Triamcinolone acetonide is approximately eight times more potent than prednisone in animal models of inflammation .
The clinical significance of this is unclear .
Although the precise mechanism of corticosteroid antiallergic action is unknown , corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of effects on multiple cell types ( e . g . mast cells , eosinophils , neutrophils , macrophages , and lymphocytes ) and mediators ( e . g . histamines , eicosanoids , leukotrienes , and cytokines ) involved in inflammation .
Pharmacokinetics : Absorption : The pharmacokinetics of triamcinolone acetonide solution was evaluated in a single - dose study conducted in 24 patients with perennial allergic rhinitis .
Following a single intranasal dose of 400 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide ( twice the recommended starting dose of triamcinolone acetonide solution ) , the mean C max of the drug was 1 . 12 ng / mL ( SD = 0 . 38 ) with a median T max of 0 . 5 hours ( range : 0 . 08 - 1 . 0 ) .
A pharmacokinetic study to demonstrate dose proportionality was conducted in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis .
The C max and AUC of the 200 and 400 mcg doses increased less than proportionally when compared to the 100 mcg dose .
Following multiple dosing ( 100 or 200 or 400 mcg QD for 7 days ) , there was no evidence of drug accumulation .
Distribution : The volume of distribution ( Vd ) reported was 99 . 5 L ( SD = 27 . 5 ) .
Metabolism : In animal studies using rats and dogs , three metabolites of triamcinolone acetonide have been identified .
They are 6β - hydroxytriamcinolone acetonide , 21 - carboxytriamcinolone acetonide and 21 - carboxy - 6β - hydroxytriamcinolone acetonide .
All three metabolites are expected to be substantially less active than the parent compound due to ( a ) the dependence of anti - inflammatory activity on the presence of a 21 - hydroxyl group , ( b ) the decreased activity observed upon 6 - hydroxylation , and ( c ) the markedly increased water solubility favoring rapid elimination .
There appeared to be some quantitative differences in the metabolites among species .
No differences were detected in metabolic pattern as a function of route of administration .
Elimination : After a single intranasal dose of 400 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide ( twice the recommended starting dose of triamcinolone acetonide solution ) , the mean observed elimination half - life was 2 . 26 hours ( SD = 0 . 77 ) .
Based upon intravenous dosing of triamcinolone acetonide phosphate ester , the half - life of triamcinolone acetonide was reported to be 88 minutes .
The reported clearance was 45 . 2 L / hour ( SD = 9 . 1 ) for triamcinolone acetonide .
Special Populations Age : The effect of age , specifically in geriatric and pediatric patients , on the pharmacokinetics of triamcinolone acetonide has not been studied .
Gender : Gender did not significantly influence the pharmacokinetics of triamcinolone acetonide solution .
Race : The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of triamcinolone acetonide solution has not been studied .
Renal / Hepatic Insufficiency : No specific pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in renally or hepatically impaired subjects .
Drug - Drug Interactions : No specific drug - drug interactions have been investigated .
Pharmacodynamics : A small ( approximately 5 to 7 patients per treatment group ) , parallel trial was conducted to assess the effect of triamcinolone acetonide solution on the Hypothalamic - Pituitary - Adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Patients with allergic rhinitis were treated for six weeks with 400 mcg , 800 mcg , or 1600 mcg total daily doses of triamcinolone acetonide solution , 10 mg oral prednisone once daily , or placebo .
Adrenal response to a six - hour cosyntropin stimulation test suggests that intranasal triamcinolone acetonide solution 400 mcg / day for six weeks did not measurably affect adrenal activity .
Triamcinolone acetonide solution treatment arms using doses of 800 and 1600 mcg / day demonstrated a trend toward dose - related suppression of HPA response .
However , this decrease did not reach statistical significance , whereas 10 mg daily oral prednisone did .
CLINICAL TRIALS : The efficacy of triamcinolone acetonide solution has been evaluated in 746 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis who completed 8 controlled clinical trials .
In total , 1187 patients have been treated with triamcinolone acetonide solution in the clinical development program .
Three adequate and well controlled multi - center trials involving 541 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis who received doses of triamcinolone acetonide solution ranging from 50 mcg to 400 mcg once daily were conducted .
These trials evaluated the total nasal symptom scores that included stuffiness , rhinorrhea , itching , and sneezing .
The results showed that patients who received ≥ 200 mcg daily of the active drug had statistically significant relief in the total nasal symptom score compared to those receiving placebo .
In one clinical trial that examined efficacy after 2 days of 200 or 400 mcg triamcinolone acetonide solution treatment , only the 400 mcg dose showed statistically significant improvement over placebo in the nasal symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : AllerNaze is indicated for the treatment of the nasal symptoms of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis in adults and children 12 years of age or older .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : AllerNaze is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS : The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency and , in addition , some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal , e . g . , joint or muscular pain , or both , lassitude and depression .
Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress .
In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions which require long - term corticosteroid treatment , too rapid a decrease in systemic corticosteroid may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms .
Patients who are on immunosuppressant drugs are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in children or adults on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids .
In children , or adults who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
If exposed , therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) as appropriate , may be indicated .
If chickenpox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use section ) .
In clinical studies with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray , the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has rarely occurred .
When such an infection develops it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuance of treatment with AllerNaze .
AllerNaze should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infection of the respiratory tract or in patients with untreated fungal , bacterial , or systemic viral infections or ocular herpes simplex .
Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing , in patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers , nasal surgery or trauma , a corticosteroid should be used with caution until healing has occurred .
As with other nasally inhaled corticosteroids , nasal septal perforations have been reported in rare instances .
When used at excessive doses , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear .
If such changes occur , AllerNaze should be discontinued slowly , consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy .
Systemic Availability and HPA Axis Suppression : Triamcinolone acetonide administered intranasally as triamcinolone acetonide solution has been shown to be absorbed into the systemic circulation in humans .
The bioavailability of triamcinolone acetonide when administered as a solution in triamcinolone acetonide solution is approximately 5 - fold greater than when administered as a CFC aerosol suspension formulation .
While triamcinolone acetonide solution administered to 5 patients with allergic rhinitis at 400 mcg / day for 42 days did not measurably affect adrenal response to a six - hour cosyntropin stimulation test , the 6 - hour cosyntropin test is an insensitive assessment for subtle HPA effects of corticosteroids .
Doses of 800 and of 1600 mcg / day triamcinolone acetonide solution did demonstrate a trend toward dose - related suppression of the HPA response .
However , this decrease did not reach statistical significance , whereas 10 mg daily oral prednisone did .
( see Clinical Pharmacology , Pharmacodynamics ) INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : Patients being treated with AllerNaze should receive the following information and instructions : • Patients who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles and , if exposed , to obtain medical advice .
• Patients should use AllerNaze at regular intervals since its effectiveness depends on its regular use .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) • An improvement in some patient symptoms may be seen within the first two days of treatment , and generally , it takes one week of treatment to reach maximum benefit .
Initial assessment for response should be made during this timeframe and periodically until the patient ’ s symptoms are stabilized .
• The patient should take the medication as directed and should not exceed the prescribed dosage .
The patient should contact the physician if symptoms do not improve after three weeks , or if the condition worsens .
• Patients who experience recurrent episodes of epistaxis ( nose bleeds ) or nasal septum discomfort while taking this medication should contact their physician .
Transient nasal irritation and / or burning or stinging may occur upon instillation with this product .
Spraying triamcinolone acetonide directly into the eyes or onto the nasal septum should be avoided .
For the proper use of this unit and to attain maximum improvement , the patient should read and follow the accompanying patient instructions carefully .
• The bottle should be discarded after 120 sprays following initial priming since the amount of triamcinolone acetonide delivered thereafter per spray may not be consistent .
Do not transfer any remaining solution to another bottle .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : In two - year mouse and Sprague - Dawley rat studies , triamcinolone acetonide did not increase the incidence of tumors at oral doses up to 1 and 3 mcg / kg , respectively ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
Triamcinolone acetonide has not been found to be mutagenic in Salmonella / mammalian - microsome reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) or the chromosomal aberration test in the Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells .
Triamcinolone acetonide did not impair fertility in Sprague - Dawley rats given oral doses up to 15 mcg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
However , triamcinolone acetonide caused increased fetal resorptions and stillbirths and decreased pup weight and survival at 5 mcg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
These effects were not produced at 1 mcg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
PREGNANCY : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Triamcinolone acetonide was teratogenic in rats , rabbits , and monkeys .
In rats , triamcinolone acetonide was teratogenic at inhalation doses of 20 mcg / kg and above ( approximately 7 / 10 of the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m ² basis ) .
In rabbits , triamcinolone acetonide was teratogenic at inhalation doses 20 mcg / kg and above ( approximately 2 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m ² basis ) .
In monkeys , triamcinolone acetonide was teratogenic at an inhalation dose of 500 mcg / kg and above ( approximately 37 times the maximum recommended daily intranasal dose in adults on a mcg / m ² basis ) .
Dose - related teratogenic effects in rats and rabbits included cleft palate , or internal hydrocephaly , or both and axial skeletal defects , whereas the effects observed in the monkey were cranial malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Triamcinolone acetonide , like other corticosteroids , should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefits justify the potential risk to the fetus .
Since their introduction , experience with oral corticosteroids in pharmacologic as opposed to physiologic doses suggests that rodents are more prone to teratogenic effects from corticosteroids than humans .
In addition , because there is a natural increase in corticosteroid production during pregnancy , most women will require a lower exogenous corticosteroid dose and many will not need corticosteroid treatment during pregnancy .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Hypoadrenalism may occur in infants born of mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Such infants should be carefully observed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether triamcinolone acetonide is excreted in human breast milk .
Because other corticosteroids are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AllerNaze is administered to nursing women .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Controlled clinical studies have shown that intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity in pediatric patients .
This effect has been observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients than some commonly used tests of HPA axis function .
The long - term effects of this reduction in growth velocity associated with intranasal corticosteroids , including the impact on final adult height , are unknown .
The potential for " catch up " growth following discontinuation of treatment with intranasal corticosteroids has not been adequately studied .
The growth of pediatric patients receiving intranasal corticosteroids , including AllerNaze , should be monitored routinely ( e . g . via stadiometry ) .
The potential growth effects of prolonged treatment should be weighed against clinical benefits obtained and the availability of safe and effective noncorticosteroid treatment alternatives .
To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids , including AllerNaze , each patient should be titrated to the lowest dose that effectively controls his / her symptoms .
GERIATRIC USE : Clinical studies of AllerNaze did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In adequate , well - controlled and uncontrolled studies , 1187 patients have received triamcinolone acetonide solution .
The adverse reactions summarized below , are based upon seven placebo controlled clinical trials of 2 - 6 weeks duration in 847 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis ( 504 patients received 200 mcg or 400 mcg per day of triamcinolone acetonide solution and 343 patients received vehicle placebo ) .
Adverse events reported by 2 % or more of patients ( regardless of relationship to treatment ) who received triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 or 400 mcg once daily and that were more common with triamcinolone acetonide solution than with placebo are displayed in the table below .
Overall , the incidence and nature of adverse events with triamcinolone acetonide solution 400 mcg was comparable to that seen with triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 mcg and with vehicle placebo .
ADVERSE EVENTS REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY OF 2 % OR GREATER AND MORE COMMON AMONG PATIENTS TREATED WITH TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE SOLUTION THAN PLACEBO REGARDLESS OF RELATIONSHIP TO TREATMENTADVERSE EVENTS 200 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide once daily n = 204 400 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide once daily n = 300 Combined ( 200 and 400 mcg ) use of triamcinolone acetonide n = 504 Vehicle Placebo n = 343 BODY AS A WHOLE Headache 51 . 0 % 44 . 3 % 47 . 0 % 41 . 1 % Back Pain 7 . 8 % 4 . 7 % 6 . 0 % 3 . 5 % RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Pharyngitis 13 . 7 % 10 . 3 % 11 . 7 % 7 . 9 % Asthma 5 . 4 % 4 . 3 % 4 . 8 % 2 . 9 % Cough Increased 2 . 0 % 2 . 7 % 2 . 4 % 2 . 3 % DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Dyspepsia 4 . 9 % 2 . 7 % 3 . 6 % 2 . 0 % Nausea 2 . 0 % 3 . 0 % 2 . 6 % 0 . 6 % Vomiting 1 . 5 % 2 . 7 % 2 . 2 % 1 . 5 % SPECIAL SENSES Taste Perversion 7 . 8 % 5 . 0 % 6 . 2 % 2 . 9 % Conjunctivitis 4 . 4 % 1 . 3 % 2 . 6 % 1 . 5 % MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM Myalgia 2 . 5 % 3 . 3 % 3 . 0 % 2 . 6 % Adverse events reported by 2 % or more of patients who received triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 or 400 mcg once daily and that were more common with placebo than with triamcinolone acetonide solution included : application site reaction ( e . g . transient nasal burning and stinging ) , rhinitis , dysmenorrhea , pain ( unspecified ) and allergic reaction .
The adverse effects related to the irritation of nasal mucous membranes ( i . e . application site reaction ) did not usually interfere with treatment .
In the controlled and uncontrolled studies , approximately 0 . 3 % of patients discontinued because of irritation of nasal mucous membranes .
OVERDOSAGE : Like any other nasally administered corticosteroid , acute overdosing is unlikely in view of the total amount of active ingredient present .
In the event that the entire contents of the bottle were administered all at once , via oral or nasal application , clinically significant adverse events would likely not result .
The patient may experience some gastrointestinal upset .
Chronic overdosage with any corticosteroid may result in signs or symptoms of hypercorticism ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The recommended starting dose of AllerNaze for most patients is 200 mcg per day given as 2 sprays ( approximately 50 mcg / spray ) in each nostril once a day .
The maximum dose should not exceed 400 mcg per day .
If the 400 mcg dose is used , it may be given either as a once a day dosage ( 4 sprays in each nostril ) or divided into two daily doses of two sprays / nostril twice a day .
The nasal spray pump must be primed before AllerNaze is used for the first time .
To prime the pump , press down on the shoulder of the white nasal applicator using your forefinger and middle finger while supporting the base of the bottle with your thumb .
Press down and release the pump until it sprays 3 times or until a fine mist is observed ( see DIRECTIONS FOR USE ) .
Some patients may obtain relief of symptoms sooner when started on a 400 mcg per day dose of AllerNaze than with 200 mcg per day .
Onset of significant relief of nasal symptoms was seen within two days after starting treatment at 400 mcg once daily .
A starting dose of 400 mcg per day may be considered in patients when starting therapy with AllerNaze in cases where a faster onset of relief is desirable .
Generally , maximum relief of symptoms may take several days or up to one week to occur .
After symptoms have been brought under control , patients should be titrated to the minimum effective dose to reduce the possibility of adverse effects .
If relief of symptoms is not achieved after 14 - 21 days of AllerNaze therapy given in an adequate dose , AllerNaze should be discontinued and alternative diagnosis and therapies considered .
AllerNaze is not recommended for use in persons under 12 years of age since its safety and effectiveness have not been established in this age group .
DIRECTION FOR USE : Illustrated patient instructions for use accompany each package of AllerNaze .
HOW SUPPLIED : Each 15 mL bottle of AllerNaze ( NDC 27437 - 143 - 01 ) contains 7 . 5 mg ( 0 . 50 mg / mL ) of triamcinolone acetonide , USP and is fitted with a meter pump with white nasal applicator , teal blue dust cover and teal blue locking clip sealed in a foil pouch .
The unit delivers 120 metered actuations and comes with a patient ' s instructions for use leaflet .
The bottle should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations has been reached even though the bottle is not completely empty .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store at controlled room temperature : 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Use AllerNaze within 2 months after opening of the protective foil pouch or before expiration date , whichever comes first .
Rx only Lupin Pharma Baltimore , MD 21202 Tel : 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 www . lupinpharmaceuticals . com AllerNazeTM [ AL - er - nāz ] ( triamcinolone acetonide , USP ) Nasal Spray PATIENT ’ S INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT These instructions provide a summary of important information about AllerNaze .
Please read it carefully before use .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any additional questions .
What is AllerNaze ?
AllerNaze is a prescription medicine called a corticosteroid used to treat seasonal and year - round allergies in adults and children age 12 and older .
When AllerNaze is sprayed in your nose , this medicine helps lessen the symptoms of sneezing , runny nose , and nasal itching associated with nasal allergies .
Do not use AllerNaze if you 1 .
are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
2 .
are breast feeding .
3 .
have had a reaction to triamcinolone acetonide or to any other nasal spray .
How do I use AllerNaze ?
• Use AllerNaze on a regular schedule exactly as prescribed by your doctor • Do not use more AllerNaze or take it more often than your doctor tells you .
It usually takes several days to one week of regular use to feel the medicine working .
• Protect your eyes from the spray .
• If your symptoms do not improve , or if they become worse , contact your doctor .
• Do not stop taking AllerNaze without contacting your doctor .
• AllerNaze does not relieve the red and itchy eye symptoms that some people have with allergic rhinitis .
Ask your doctor for advice on treatment .
• Tell your doctor if you have irritation , burning or stinging inside your nose that does not go away when using AllerNaze .
• You may have nosebleeds after using AllerNaze .
If so , contact your doctor right away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Patient Instructions for Use Read these instructions carefully before use .
The following instructions tell you how to prepare your AllerNaze spray pump so that it is ready for your use .
Open the foil pouch and remove the pump unit .
See Figure A for a picture of the spray pump , the cap , and the safety clip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming the Pump : The pump needs to be primed before using it for the first time and then again if you have not used the spray for 2 weeks .
You will prime the pump the same way each time .
1 .
Remove the blue plastic cap and the blue safety clip from the nasal applicator of the spray pump unit .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Prime the pump by holding the bottle with your thumb on the bottom and your index and middle fingers on top , on either side of the white nasal applicator .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Point the bottle up and away from your eyes .
Press down on either side of the white nasal applicator using your forefinger and middle finger , while supporting the base of the bottle with your thumb .
4 .
Press down and release the pump several times until you get 3 sprays or until a fine mist is seen .
A fine mist can only be made by a rapid and firm pumping action .
See Figure C . Using the spray correctly : 1 .
Gently blow your nose to clear it before using the medication .
2 .
Remove the blue plastic cap and the blue safety clip from the nasal applicator .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Prime the pump .
See Figures A , B , and C in the “ Priming the Pump ” section .
4 .
Tilt your head backward slightly .
Breathe out slowly .
5 .
Use a finger on your other hand to close your nostril on the side not receiving the medication .
See Figure E . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
Insert spray tip into one nostril , as shown in the illustration .
Do not insert too far back .
Do not spray AllerNaze directly onto the nasal tissue inside your nose ; aim the spray to the back of your nose .
See Figure F . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
Breathe in through the nostril and while breathing in press the applicator once to release the spray .
You will need to press firmly and rapidly .
Breathe out through your mouth .
8 .
If the doctor has prescribed 2 sprays on each side , repeat Step 7 ( above ) in the same nostril and then switch to use the nasal spray in the other nostril .
9 .
Do not blow your nose for 15 minutes .
10 .
After use , wipe the spray bottle applicator off with a tissue and put the cap and safety clip back on to the bottle .
If your nasal passages are severely swollen , your doctor may recommend a decongestant nasal spray or nose drops for 3 or 4 days before using AllerNaze .
CLEANING the nasal applicator : If the nasal applicator becomes blocked , and does not spray , remove it and allow it to soak in warm water for 10 - 15 minutes .
Then rinse the applicator with clean warm water , allow it to air dry and put it back on the bottle .
Do not try to unblock the applicator by inserting a pin or other sharp object .
This could change the amount of medicine you spray and cause an overdose .
STORING and discarding AllerNaze : • Store between 68º to 77º F ( 20º to 25º C ) .
• Do not freeze .
• Use AllerNaze within 2 months after opening the protective foil pouch or before the expiration date on the box or label , whichever comes first .
• After using 120 sprays of AllerNaze throw the bottle away – the dose may not be accurate .
Information about nasal symptoms of allergies ( allergic rhinitis ) : Allergic rhinitis is a condition that causes swelling and increased watery fluid in the nose and nasal passages .
This can result in sneezing , runny nose , itching , and difficulty in breathing through the nose .
This response is caused by an allergy to pollen that comes from many types of plants including trees , grasses , and weeds .
Allergic responses of this type may also be caused by mold spores , house dust mites , animal dander , and other substances .
Lupin Pharma Baltimore , MD 21202 Tel : 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 www . lupinpharmaceuticals . com 2000002549 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 27437 - 143 - 01 AllerNaze ™ ( triamcinolone acetonide , USP ) NASAL SPRAY , 50 mcg Lupin Pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ]
