TEP SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION Active Ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 0692 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use help control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
if more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 ADA Council Statement The ADA Council on scientific affairs Acceptanc of Swan Blue Mint Antiseptic mouth rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plque above the gumline , when used as directed Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Adverse Reactions Distributed by : Vi - Jon , LLC One Swan Drive , Smyrna , TN 37167 principal display panel Meets current TSA ' s guidelines for carry - on luggage Swan ANTISEPTIC MOUTH RINSE ice mint Kills Germs that Cause Bad Breath Plaque & the Gum Disease Gingivitis Compare to active ingredients of Listerine Sealed with printed neckband for your protection 3 . 2 FL OZ ( 94 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Listerine improves oral hygiene kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque and gingivitis gum disease for daily mouth care freshens breath antiseptic mouth rinse antiseptic mouth rinse antigingivitis / antiplaque blue mint 1 . 5 L ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
