This Arthritis Pain Relief lotion has been formulated with camphor and menthol to help with aches and pains , and then added cannabinoids , avocado oil , black cohosh , horsetail , and more to create a truly unique lotion for the wellbeing of muscles and joints .
Active Ingredients Camphor 4 % w / w .
Purpose : Topical Analgesic Menthol 8 % w / w .
Purpose : Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic , pain relief lotion Use Pain relief lotion to help reduce minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : arthritis , strains , sprains , simple backaches , and bruises .
Do not use in children on open skin wounds This product is for external use only .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Do not bandage tightly when applying this product .
Do not apply this product more than 4 times per day .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product , and consult a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions This product is for external use only .
Rub the affected area accordingly .
Apply to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Other information Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive Ingredients Bentonite Clay , Carthamus tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Cimicifuga racemose ( Black Cohosh ) Root Extract , Equisetum arvense ( Horsetail ) Extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Harpagophylum procumbens ( Devil ' s Claw ) Root Extract , Hemp Derived ( Cannabis sativa ) Cannabinoids , Oenothera biennis ( Evening Primrose ) FlowerExtract , Persea gratissima ( Avocado ) Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Stellaria media ( Chickweed ) Herb Extract , Symphytum officinale ( Comfrey ) Leaf Extract , Water , and Xanthan Gum .
Manufacturing and Distributors information MANUFACTURED AND DISTRIBUTED BY : GREEN ROADS OF FLORIDA , LLC 601 FAIRWAY DR , DEERFIELD BEACH , FL 33441 833 - 462 - 8922 GREENROADS . COM Avoid contact with eyes Do not bandage tightly Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin For external use only Design and Label of CONTAINER Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label Display box ( IFC ) IFC Individual Folding Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Most outer BOX Big Container BOX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
