Description Rx Only FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INJECTION .
NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION MUST BE DILUTED IN DEXTROSE ( 5 % ) INJECTION OR SODIUM CHLORIDE ( 0 . 9 % ) INJECTION PRIOR TO ITS INFUSION ( SEE DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SECTION ) .
THE ADMINISTRATION SET USED FOR INFUSION WILL AFFECT THE AMOUNT OF NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION DELIVERED TO THE PATIENT .
( SEE WARNINGS , AND DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SECTIONS ) .
CAUTION SEVERAL PREPARATIONS OF NITROGLYCERIN FOR INJECTION ARE AVAILABLE .
THEY DIFFER IN CONCENTRATION AND / OR VOLUME PER VIAL .
WHEN SWITCHING FROM ONE PRODUCT TO ANOTHER , ATTENTION MUST BE PAID TO THE DILUTION AND DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INSTRUCTIONS .
DESCRIPTION : Nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] whose empiric formula is C3H5N3O9 , and whose molecular weight is 227 . 09 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
Nitroglycerin Injection , USP is a clear , practically colorless additive solution for intravenous infusion after dilution .
Each mL contains : Nitroglycerin 5 mg , Alcohol 30 % ( v / v ) , Propylene Glycol 30 % , and Water for Injection q . s . pH ( range 3 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) may have been adjusted with Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid .
The solution is sterile , non - pyrogenic , and nonexplosive .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology The principal pharmacological action of Nitroglycerin Injection is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the anti - anginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their anti - anginal efficacy been restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about 3 minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( non - vasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 - 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
Clinical Trials : Blinded , placebo - controlled trials of intravenous nitroglycerin have not been reported , but multiple investigators have reported open - label studies , and there are scattered reports of studies in which intravenous nitroglycerin was tested in blinded fashion against sodium nitroprusside .
In each of these studies , therapeutic doses of intravenous nitroglycerin were found to reduce systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure .
The heart rate was usually increased , presumably as a reflexive response to the fall in blood pressure .
Coronary perfusion pressure was usually , but not always , maintained .
Intravenous nitroglycerin reduced central venous pressure ( CVP ) , right atrial pressure ( RAP ) , pulmonary arterial pressure ( PAP ) , pulmonary - capillary wedge pressure ( PCWP ) , pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) , and systemic vascular resistance ( SVR ) .
When these parameters were elevated , reducing them toward normal usually caused a rise in cardiac output .
Conversely , intravenous nitroglycerin usually reduced cardiac output when it was given to patients whose CVP , RAP , PAP , PCWP , PVR , AND SVR were all normal .
Most clinical trials of intravenous nitroglycerin have been brief ; they have typically followed hemodynamic parameters during a single surgical procedure .
In one careful study , one of the few that lasted more than a few hours , continuous intravenous nitroglycerin had lost almost all of its hemodynamic effect after 48 hours .
In the same study , patients who received nitroglycerin infusions for only 12 hours out of each 24 demonstrated no similar attenuation of effect .
These results are consistent with those seen in multiple large , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials of other formulations of nitroglycerin and other nitrates .
Indications and Usage Nitroglycerin Injection is indicated for treatment of peri - operative hypertension ; for control of congestive heart failure in the setting of acute myocardial infarction ; for treatment of angina pectoris in patients who have not responded to sublingual nitroglycerin and b - blockers ; and for induction of intraoperative hypotension .
Contraindications Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are extremely rare , but they do occur .
Nitroglycerin Injection is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
In patients with pericardial tamponade , restrictive cardiomyopathy , or constrictive pericarditis , cardiac output is dependent upon venous return .
Intravenous nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients with these conditions .
Warnings Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of nitroglycerin by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with volume expansion .
Nitroglycerin readily migrates into many plastics , including the polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) plastics commonly used for intravenous administration sets .
Nitroglycerin absorption by PVC tubing is increased when the tubing is long , the flow rates are low , and the nitroglycerin concentration of the solution is high .
The delivered fraction of the solution ' s original nitroglycerin content has been 20 - 60 % in published studies using PVC tubing ; the fraction varies with time during a single infusion , and no simple correction factor can be used .
PVC tubing has been used in most published studies of intravenous nitroglycerin , but the reported doses have been calculated by simply multiplying the flow rate of the solution by the solution ' s original concentration of nitroglycerin .
The actual doses delivered have been less , sometimes much less , than those reported .
Some in - line intravenous filters also absorb nitroglycerin ; these filters should be avoided .
Because of the problem of nitroglycerin absorption by polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) tubing , Nitroglycerin Injection should be used with the least absorptive infusion tubing ( i . e . , non - PVC tubing ) available .
DOSING INSTRUCTIONS MUST BE FOLLOWED WITH CARE .
WHEN THE APPROPRIATE INFUSION SETS ARE USED , THE CALCULATED DOSE WILL BE DELIVERED TO THE PATIENT , BECAUSE THE LOSS OF NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION SEEN WITH STANDARD PVC TUBING WILL BE AVOIDED .
THE DOSAGES REPORTED IN PUBLISHED STUDIES UTILIZED GENERAL - USE PVC ADMINISTRATION SETS , AND RECOMMENDED DOSES BASED ON THIS EXPERIENCE WILL BE TOO HIGH WHEN THE LOW - ABSORBING INFUSION SETS ARE USED .
Precautions General : Severe hypotension and shock may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops , the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance , although still observable , is somewhat blunted .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Some clinical trials in angina patients have provided nitroglycerin for about 12 continuous hours of every 24 - hour day .
During the nitrate - free intervals in some of these trials , anginal attacks have been more easily provoked than before treatment , and patients have demonstrated hemodynamic rebound and decreased exercise tolerance .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of intravenous nitroglycerin is not known .
Lower concentrations of nitroglycerin increase the potential precision of dosing , but these concentrations increase the total fluid volume that must be delivered to the patient .
Total fluid load may be a dominant consideration in patients with compromised function of the heart , liver , and / or kidneys .
Nitroglycerin infusions should be administered only via a pump that can maintain a constant infusion rate .
Intracoronary injection of nitroglycerin infusions has not been studied .
Laboratory Tests : Because of the propylene glycol content of intravenous nitroglycerin , serum triglyceride assays that rely on glycerol oxidase may give falsely elevated results in patients receiving this medication .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Administration of nitroglycerin infusions through the same infusion set as blood can result in pseudoagglutination and hemolysis .
More generally , nitroglycerin in 5 % dextrose or sodium chloride 0 . 9 % should not be mixed with any other medication of any kind .
Intravenous nitroglycerin interferes , at least in some patients , with the anticoagulant effect of heparin .
In patients receiving intravenous nitroglycerin , concomitant heparin therapy should be guided by frequent measurement of the activated partial thromboplastin time .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Animal carcinogenesis studies with injectable nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs . 0 % in controls , and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
There was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , p . o . , or in in vitro cytogenetic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for six months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high - dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Animal teratology studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin injection .
Teratology studies in rats and rabbits , however , were conducted with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No toxic effects on dams or fetuses were seen at any dose tested .
There are no adequate and wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose - related and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients .
Methemoglobinemia is so infrequent at these doses that further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment is deferred ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Overdosage Hemodynamic Effects : The ill effects of nitroglycerin overdose are generally the results of nitroglycerin ' s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitation ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures ; and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which - if any - of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ' s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( ³ 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 - 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 - 2 mg / kg intravenously .
Dosage and Administration NOT FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INJECTION NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION IS A CONCENTRATED , POTENT DRUG WHICH MUST BE DILUTED IN DEXTROSE ( 5 % ) INJECTION OR SODIUM CHLORIDE ( 0 . 9 % ) INJECTION PRIOR TO ITS INFUSION .
NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION SHOULD NOT BE MIXED WITH OTHER DRUGS .
1 .
Initial Dilution : Aseptically transfer the contents of one nitroglycerin vial ( containing 25 mg or 50 mg of nitroglycerin ) into a 500 mL glass bottle of either Dextrose ( 5 % ) Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection ( 0 . 9 % ) .
This yields a final concentration of 50 mcg / mL or 100 mcg / mL .
Diluting 5 mg nitroglycerin into 100 mL will also yield a final concentration of 50 mcg / mL .
2 .
Maintenance Dilution : It is important to consider the fluid requirements of the patient as well as the expected duration of infusion in selecting the appropriate dilution of Nitroglycerin Injection .
After the initial dosage titration , the concentration of the solution may be increased , if necessary , to limit fluids given to the patient .
The nitroglycerin concentration should not exceed 400 mcg / mL .
See chart .
Note : If the concentration is adjusted , it is imperative to flush or replace the infusion set before a new concentration is utilized .
If the set were not flushed or replaced , it could take minutes to hours , depending upon the flow rate and the dead space of the set , for the new concentration to reach the patient .
Invert the glass parenteral bottle several times to assure uniform dilution of the nitroglycerin .
Dosage is affected by the type of container and administration set used .
See WARNINGS .
Although the usual starting adult dose range reported in clinical studies was 25 mcg / min or more , these studies used PVC administration sets .
THE USE OF NON - ABSORBING TUBING WILL RESULT IN THE NEED FOR REDUCED DOSES .
If a peristaltic action infusion pump is used , an appropriate administration set should be selected with a drip chamber that delivers approximately 60 microdrops / mL .
Table 1 and the Nitroglycerin Injection Dilution Table below may be used to calculate the nitroglycerin dilution and flow rate in microdrops / minute to achieve the desired Nitroglycerin Injection administration rate .
If a volumetric infusion pump is used , an appropriate volumetric infusion pump connector set should be selected .
Table 1 below may still be used ; however , flow rate will be determined directly by the infusion pump , independent of the drop size of the appropriate set drip chambers .
Thus , the reference to `` microdrops / min ## is not applicable , and the corresponding flow rate in mL / hr should be used to determine pump settings .
When using a non - absorbing infusion set , the initial dosage should be 5 mcg / min delivered through an infusion pump capable of exact and constant delivery of the drug .
Subsequent titration must be adjusted to the clinical situation , with dose increments becoming more cautious as partial response is seen .
Initial titration should be in 5 mcg / min increments , with increases every 3 - 5 minutes until some response is noted .
If no response is seen at 20 mcg / min , increments of 10 and later 20 mcg / min can be used .
Once a partial blood pressure response is observed , the dose increase should be reduced and the interval between increases should be lengthened .
Some patients with normal or low left ventricular filling pressures or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( e . g . , angina patients without other complications ) may be hypersensitive to the effects of nitroglycerin and may respond fully to doses as small as 5 mcg / min .
These patients require especially careful titration and monitoring .
There is no fixed optimum dose of nitroglycerin .
Due to variations in the responsiveness of individual patients to the drug , each patient must be titrated to the desired level of hemodynamic function .
Therefore , continuous monitoring of physiologic parameters ( i . e . , blood pressure and heart rate in all patients , other measurements such as pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , as appropriate ) MUST be performed to achieve the correct dose .
Adequate systemic blood pressure and coronary perfusion pressure must be maintained .
Dilution : Nitroglycerin Injection is supplied in 5 mg / mL solution .
A dilution and administration scheme for Nitroglycerin Injection is shown in Table 1 below .
60 MICRODROPS = 1 mL Solution Concentration ( mcg / mL ) 100 200 400 Dose ( mcg / min ) FLOW RATE ( microdrops / min = mL / hr 5 3 - - 10 6 3 - 15 9 - - 20 12 6 3 30 18 9 - 40 24 12 6 60 36 18 9 80 48 24 12 120 72 36 18 160 96 48 24 240 - 72 36 320 - 96 48 480 - - 72 640 - - 96 60 MICRODROPS = 1 mL NITROGLYCERIN INJECTION DILUTION TABLE Each mL of Nitroglycerin Injection contains 5 mg of nitroglycerin .
Total Contents : Each 10 mL vial contains 50 mg of nitroglycerin .
FINAL CONCENTRATION mL of Nitroglycerin Injection Volume mg 100 mcg / mL q . s . to 200 mcg / mL q . s . to 400 mcg / mL q . s . to 5 mL 25 mg 250 mL 125 mL --- 10 mL 50 mg 500 mL 250 mL 125 mL 20 mL 100 mg 1000 mL 500 mL 250 mL 40 mL 200 mg --- 1000 mL 500 mL ( Diluent : Dectrose 5 % Injection of Sodium Chloride Injection ( 0 . 9 % ) NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
How Supplied Nitroglycerin Injection , USP , 5 mg / mL is available as follows : NDC 0517 - 4810 - 25 50 mg / 10 mL Single Dose Vial Package of 25 PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
RETAIN IN CARTON UNTIL TIME OF USE .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
Product repackaged by : Henry Schein , Inc . , Bastian , VA 24314 From Original Manufacturer / Distributor ' s NDC and Unit of Sale To Henry Schein Repackaged Product NDC and Unit of Sale Total Strength / Total Volume ( Concentration ) per unit NDC 0517 - 4810 - 25 Packages of 25 NDC 0404 - 9928 - 10 1 10 mL Single Dose Vial in a bag ( Vial bears NDC 0517 - 4810 - 01 ) 50 mg / 10 mL AMERICAN REGENT LABORATORIES , INC .
SHIRLEY , NY 11967 IN4805 Rev . 11 / 05 Sample Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
