Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) 8 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SOMAVERT is indicated for the treatment of acromegaly in patients who have had an inadequate response to surgery or radiation therapy , or for whom these therapies are not appropriate .
The goal of treatment is to normalize serum insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) levels .
SOMAVERT is a growth hormone receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of acromegaly in patients who have had an inadequate response to surgery or radiation therapy , or for whom these therapies are not appropriate .
The goal of treatment is to normalize serum insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) levels .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer a 40 mg loading dose subcutaneously under physician supervision .
( 2 . 1 ) • After proper injection instruction , on day after loading dose , patients or caregivers begin daily subcutaneous injections of 10 mg .
( 2 . 1 ) • Adjust dosage in 5 mg increments or decrements until serum IGF - I concentrations are maintained within age - adjusted normal range .
Do not adjust dosage based on growth hormone ( GH ) levels or signs or symptoms of acromegaly .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage range is 10 mg to 30 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Perform liver tests prior to first dosage and if greater than 3 times upper limit of normal should work - up prior to SOMAVERT administration .
( 2 . 2 ) • Follow reconstitution and injection procedures .
( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information The recommended loading dose of SOMAVERT is 40 mg given subcutaneously , under healthcare provider supervision .
Provide proper training in subcutaneous injection technique to patients or their caregivers so they can receive once daily subcutaneous injections .
On the next day following the loading dose , instruct patients or their caregivers to begin daily subcutaneous injections of 10 mg of SOMAVERT .
Titrate the dosage to normalize serum IGF - I concentrations ( serum IGF - I concentrations should be measured every four to six weeks ) .
The dosage should not be based on growth hormone ( GH ) concentrations or signs and symptoms of acromegaly .
It is unknown whether patients who remain symptomatic while achieving normalized IGF - I concentrations would benefit from increased SOMAVERT dosage .
• Increase the dosage by 5 mg increments every 4 – 6 weeks if IGF - I concentrations are elevated .
• Decrease the dosage by 5 mg decrements every 4 – 6 weeks if IGF - I concentrations are below the normal range .
• IGF - I levels should also be monitored when a SOMAVERT dose given in multiple injections is converted to a single daily injection [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
The recommended dosage range is between 10 mg to 30 mg given subcutaneously once daily and the maximum daily dosage is 30 mg given subcutaneously once daily .
2 . 2 Assess Liver Tests Prior to Initiation of SOMAVERT Prior to the start of SOMAVERT , patients should have an assessment of baseline levels of liver tests [ serum alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , serum total bilirubin ( TBIL ) , and alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) ] .
For recommendations regarding initiation of SOMAVERT based on baseline liver tests and recommendations for monitoring of liver tests while on SOMAVERT , refer to Table 1 in Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) .
2 . 3 Loading Dose Injection Procedure The following instructions are for the healthcare provider to reconstitute and prepare the 40 mg loading dose .
The healthcare provider will need to reconstitute 2 vials of lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT each containing 20 mg of pegvisomant with supplied diluent [ two vials of lyophilized powder and two syringes containing 1 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) will be needed for the 40 mg loading dose ] .
The healthcare provider will also need to inject the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution twice into the patient ' s upper arm , upper thigh , abdomen , or buttocks ( each injection in a different area ) .
• ( a ) Before administering the loading dose , remove 1 vial of lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT containing 20 mg of pegvisomant and one syringe containing 1 mL of diluent from the refrigerator , if refrigerated , about 10 minutes prior to the planned injection time .
• ( b ) Reconstitute the first 20 mg vial of lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT containing 20 mg of pegvisomant with diluent .
When using the diluent in the syringe , inject the contents of the syringe slowly onto the sides of the vial containing lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT .
Do not inject the diluent directly on the powder .
• ( c ) Do not invert the vial or shake the solution as this may cause denaturation of the pegvisomant protein .
Slowly swirl the solution to ensure that all of the lyophilized powder has gone into solution .
If foaming of the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution is seen , the solution is likely damaged and therefore inappropriate to inject .
• ( d ) Visually inspect the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The reconstituted solution should be clear .
If the solution is cloudy , do not use it .
Once reconstituted , the solution will contain 20 mg of pegvisomant in 1 mL of solution .
• ( e ) Withdraw the 1 mL reconstituted SOMAVERT solution .
The solution must be administered immediately after reconstitution .
• ( f ) Inject the first reconstituted SOMAVERT solution ( 20 mg / mL ) subcutaneously into the patient ' s upper arm , upper thigh , abdomen , or buttocks using a 90 - degree angle .
• ( g ) Repeat steps ( a ) to ( e ) to reconstitute the second SOMAVERT dose of 20 mg .
• ( h ) Finally , inject the second reconstituted SOMAVERT solution ( 20 mg / mL ) subcutaneously into the patient ' s upper arm , upper thigh , abdomen , or buttocks using a 90 - degree angle ( different area than the first injection ) .
2 . 4 Maintenance Dose Injection Procedure For patient or caregiver instructions for reconstitution and administration of daily doses ( 10 mg to 30 mg ) , see the Patient ' s Instructions for Use .
• a ) Before administering the dose , remove 1 vial of lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT containing 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg or 30 mg of pegvisomant and one syringe containing 1 mL of diluent from the refrigerator , if refrigerated , about 10 minutes prior to the planned injection time .
• b ) Reconstitute the lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT with diluent .
When using the diluent in the 2 . 25 mL syringe , inject the contents of the syringe slowly onto the sides of the vial containing lyophilized powder of SOMAVERT .
Do not inject the diluent directly on the powder .
• c ) Do not invert the vial or shake the solution as this may cause denaturation of the pegvisomant protein .
Slowly swirl the solution to ensure that all of the lyophilized powder has gone into solution .
If foaming of the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution is seen , the solution is likely damaged and therefore inappropriate to inject .
• d ) Visually inspect the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The reconstituted solution should be clear .
If the solution is cloudy , do not use it .
Once reconstituted , the solution will contain 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg or 30 mg of pegvisomant in 1 mL of solution .
• e ) Withdraw the 1 mL reconstituted SOMAVERT solution .
The solution must be administered immediately after reconstitution .
• f ) Inject the reconstituted SOMAVERT solution subcutaneously into the upper arm , upper thigh , abdomen , or buttocks using a 90 - degree angle .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg or 30 mg white lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution supplied with a prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) .
For injection : 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg or 30 mg lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution supplied with a prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypoglycemia : Monitor blood glucose in patients with diabetes mellitus and reduce anti - diabetic drug therapy as necessary .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver Toxicity : Should have more frequent liver tests and / or discontinue SOMAVERT .
( 5 . 2 ) • Systemic Hypersensitivity : Monitor closely when re - initiating SOMAVERT in patients with systemic hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Hypoglycemia Associated With GH Lowering in Patients With Diabetes Mellitus GH opposes the effects of insulin on carbohydrate metabolism by decreasing insulin sensitivity ; thus , glucose tolerance may improve in some patients treated with SOMAVERT .
Patients should be carefully monitored and doses of anti - diabetic drugs reduced as necessary to avoid hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes mellitus .
5 . 2 Liver Toxicity Baseline serum alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , serum total bilirubin ( TBIL ) , and alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) levels should be obtained prior to initiating therapy with SOMAVERT .
Table 1 lists recommendations regarding initiation of treatment with SOMAVERT , based on the results of these liver tests ( LTs ) .
Asymptomatic , transient elevations in transaminases up to 15 times ULN have been observed in < 2 % of subjects among two open - label trials ( with a total of 147 patients ) .
These reports were not associated with an increase in bilirubin .
Transaminase elevations normalized with time , most often after suspending treatment .
Postmarketing reports have identified elevations in serum hepatic transaminases up to greater than 20 times ULN associated with elevation in total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN .
In many of these cases , discontinuation of SOMAVERT therapy resulted in improvement or resolution of hepatic laboratory abnormalities .
SOMAVERT should be used in accordance with the information presented in Table 2 with respect to liver test abnormalities while on SOMAVERT treatment .
Table 1 .
Recommendations of Initiating SOMAVERT Based on Baseline LTs and Periodic Monitoring of LTs During SOMAVERT TreatmentBaseline LT Levels Recommendations Normal • May treat with SOMAVERT .
• Monitor LTs at monthly intervals during the first 6 months of treatment , quarterly for the next 6 months and then bi - annually for the next year .
Elevated , but less than or equal to 3 times ULN May treat with SOMAVERT ; however , monitor LTs monthly for at least one year after initiation of therapy and then bi - annually for the next year .
Greater than 3 times ULN • Do not treat with SOMAVERT until a comprehensive workup establishes the cause of the patient ' s liver dysfunction .
• Determine if cholelithiasis or choledocholithiasis is present , particularly in patients with a history of prior therapy with somatostatin analogs .
• Based on the workup , consider initiation of therapy with SOMAVERT .
• If the decision is to treat , LTs and clinical symptoms should be monitored very closely .
If a patient develops LT elevations , or any other signs or symptoms of liver dysfunction while receiving SOMAVERT , the following patient management is recommended ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Clinical Recommendations Based on Liver Test Results While on SOMAVERT LT Levels and Clinical Signs / Symptoms Recommendations Greater than or equal to 3 but less than 5 times ULN ( without signs / symptoms of hepatitis or other liver injury , or increase in serum TBIL ) • May continue therapy with SOMAVERT .
However , monitor LTs weekly to determine if further increases occur ( see below ) .
• Perform a comprehensive hepatic workup to discern if an alternative cause of liver dysfunction is present .
At least 5 times ULN , or transaminase elevations at least 3 times ULN associated with any increase in serum TBIL ( with or without signs / symptoms of hepatitis or other liver injury ) • Discontinue SOMAVERT immediately .
• Perform a comprehensive hepatic workup , including serial LTs , to determine if and when serum levels return to normal .
• If LTs normalize ( regardless of whether an alternative cause of the liver dysfunction is discovered ) , consider cautious re - initiation of therapy with SOMAVERT , with frequent LT monitoring .
Signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatitis or other liver injury ( e . g . , jaundice , bilirubinuria , fatigue , nausea , vomiting , right upper quadrant pain , ascites , unexplained edema , easy bruisability ) • Immediately perform a comprehensive hepatic workup .
• If liver injury is confirmed , the drug should be discontinued .
5 . 3 Cross - Reactivity With GH Assays SOMAVERT has significant structural similarity to growth hormone ( GH ) which causes it to cross - react in commercially available GH assays .
Since serum concentrations of therapeutically effective doses of SOMAVERT are generally 100 to 1000 times higher than the actual serum GH concentrations seen in patients with acromegaly , measurements of serum GH concentrations will appear falsely elevated .
5 . 4 Lipohypertrophy There have been cases of lipohypertrophy in patients treated with SOMAVERT .
In a double - blind , 12 - week , placebo - controlled study , there was one case ( 1 . 3 % ) of injection site lipohypertrophy reported in a subject receiving 10 mg / day .
The subject recovered while on treatment .
Among two open - label trials ( with a total of 147 patients ) , there were two subjects , both receiving 10 mg / day , who developed lipohypertrophy .
One case recovered while on treatment , and one case resulted in a discontinuation of treatment .
Injection sites should be rotated daily to help prevent lipohypertrophy ( different area than the last injection ) .
5 . 5 Systemic Hypersensitivity In patients with systemic hypersensitivity reactions , caution and close monitoring should be exercised when re - initiating SOMAVERT therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinically significant adverse reactions that appear in other section of the labeling include : • Hypoglycemia Associated with GH Lowering in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cross - Reactivity with GH Assays [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Lipohypertrophy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Systemic Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Elevations of serum concentrations of ALT and AST greater than ten times the ULN were reported in two patients ( 0 . 8 % ) exposed to SOMAVERT in pre - approval clinical studies .
One patient was rechallenged with SOMAVERT , and the recurrence of elevated transaminase levels suggested a probable causal relationship between administration of the drug and the elevation in liver enzymes .
A liver biopsy performed on the second patient was consistent with chronic hepatitis of unknown etiology .
In both patients , the transaminase elevations normalized after discontinuation of the drug .
Elevations in ALT and AST levels were not associated with increased levels of TBIL and ALP , with the exception of two patients with minimal associated increases in ALP levels ( i . e . , less than 3 times ULN ) .
The transaminase elevations did not appear to be related to the dose of SOMAVERT administered , generally occurred within 4 to 12 weeks of initiation of therapy , and were not associated with any identifiable biochemical , phenotypic , or genetic predictors .
Most common reported adverse reactions ( > 6 % ) are infection , pain , nausea , diarrhea , abnormal liver tests , flu syndrome , injection site reaction .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Pfizer Inc . at 1 - 800 - 438 - 1985 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In a 12 - week randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind , fixed - dose study of SOMAVERT in subjects with acromegaly , 32 subjects received placebo and 80 subjects received SOMAVERT once daily [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
A total of 108 subjects ( 30 placebo , 78 SOMAVERT ) completed 12 weeks of study treatment .
Overall , eight patients with acromegaly ( 5 . 3 % ) withdrew from pre - marketing clinical studies because of adverse events , including two patients with marked transaminase elevations , one patient with lipohypertrophy at the injection sites , and one patient with substantial weight gain .
Most adverse events did not appear to be dose - dependent .
Table 3 shows the incidence of adverse events that were reported in at least two patients treated with SOMAVERT and at frequencies greater than placebo during the 12 - week , placebo - controlled study .
Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions in a 12 - week Placebo - Controlled Study in Patients with Acromegaly [ 1 ] Placebo n = 32 SOMAVERT 10 mg / day n = 26 15 mg / day n = 26 20 mg / day N = 28 Infection [ 2 ] 2 ( 6 % ) 6 ( 23 % ) 0 0 Pain 2 ( 6 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 4 ( 14 % ) Nausea 1 ( 3 % ) 0 2 ( 8 % ) 4 ( 14 % ) Diarrhea 1 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 0 4 ( 14 % ) Abnormal liver function tests 1 ( 3 % ) 3 ( 12 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) Flu syndrome 0 1 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 12 % ) 2 ( 7 % ) Injection site reaction 0 2 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 11 % ) Dizziness 2 ( 6 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) Accidental injury 1 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 4 % ) 0 Back pain 1 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 0 1 ( 4 % ) Sinusitis 1 ( 3 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 0 1 ( 4 % ) Chest pain 0 1 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 8 % ) 0 Peripheral edema 0 2 ( 8 % ) 0 1 ( 4 % ) Hypertension 0 0 2 ( 8 % ) 0 Paresthesia 2 ( 6 % ) 0 0 2 ( 7 % ) [ 1 ] Table includes only those events that were reported in at least 2 patients and at a higher incidence in patients treated with SOMAVERT than in patients treated with placebo .
[ 2 ] The 6 events coded as " infection " in the group treated with SOMAVERT 10 mg were reported as cold symptoms ( 3 ) , upper respiratory infection ( 1 ) , blister ( 1 ) , and ear infection ( 1 ) .
The 2 events in the placebo group were reported as cold symptoms ( 1 ) and chest infection ( 1 ) .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity In pre - marketing clinical studies , approximately 17 % of the SOMAVERT - treated patients developed low titer , non - neutralizing anti - GH antibodies .
Although the presence of these antibodies did not appear to impact the efficacy of SOMAVERT , the long - term clinical significance of these antibodies is not known .
No assay for anti - pegvisomant antibodies is commercially available for patients receiving SOMAVERT .
The data above reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to SOMAVERT .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to SOMAVERT with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of SOMAVERT .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions , laryngospasm , angioedema , generalized skin reactions ( rash , erythema , pruritus , urticaria ) have been reported in post - marketing use .
Some patients required hospitalization .
Symptoms did not re - occur in all patients after re - challenge [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Registry of Patients With Acromegaly Treated With SOMAVERT ACROSTUDY is an international observational registry that captures long term safety data in patients with acromegaly treated with SOMAVERT , as used in clinical practice .
Treatment dose and schedule were at the discretion of each treating physician .
Although safety monitoring as per the recommended schedule was mandatory , not all assessments were performed at all time points for every patient .
Because of this , comparison of rates of adverse events to those in the original clinical trial is not appropriate .
In an interim report , there were 1288 patients enrolled ( mean duration of treatment 3 . 7 years ) .
At the start of SOMAVERT treatment 648 patients were on SOMAVERT monotherapy for acromegaly .
Of the 454 patients who had a normal AST and ALT at baseline , 4 patients had elevated tests > 3 times ULN , two of whom had elevated tests > 5 times ULN .
Lipohypertrophy was reported in 6 ( 0 . 5 % ) patients .
MRIs were compared to any previous ones , and a change in tumor volume was reported as significant locally only if the diameter increased by more than 3 mm for microadenomas or volume increased by more than 20 % for macroadenomas .
All MRI changes considered significant at the local reading were reanalyzed centrally .
Of the 747 patients who had a MRI reported at baseline and at least once during follow up in the study , 51 ( 7 % ) were reported to have an increase by local MRI .
Of these , 16 patients ( 2 % ) had confirmation of this increase , 6 patients had a decrease , 12 had " no change " ; there was 1 with insufficient data and 16 patients did not have a central MRI reading .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Insulin and / or Oral hypoglycemic Agents : Patients with acromegaly and with diabetes mellitus may require careful monitoring and dose reductions of insulin and / or oral hypoglycemic agents .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) • Opioids : Patients on opioids may need higher SOMAVERT doses to achieve appropriate IGF - I suppression .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Insulin and / or Oral Hypoglycemic Agents After initiation of SOMAVERT , patients with acromegaly and diabetes mellitus treated with insulin and / or oral hypoglycemic agents may require dose reductions of insulin and / or oral hypoglycemic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Opioids In clinical studies , patients taking opioids often needed higher SOMAVERT doses to normalize IGF - I concentrations compared with patients not receiving opioids .
The mechanism of this interaction is not known .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Postmarketing reports of SOMAVERT use in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Acromegaly may improve during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , fetotoxicity was observed at a dose that was 6 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area following subcutaneous administration of pegvisomant during organogenesis or during the preimplantation period ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryofetal risk Published data from case reports , case series , and a small interventional study in pregnant women with acromegaly have demonstrated that acromegaly may improve or stabilize without treatment during pregnancy , particularly if acromegaly is treated before pregnancy .
In rare cases , acromegaly may worsen during pregnancy .
Since IGF - 1 levels may change physiologically during pregnancy and interpreting IGF - 1 and growth hormone levels in pregnant women with acromegaly may be unreliable , clinical monitoring is recommended .
Data Animal Data The effects of pegvisomant on early embryonic development and embryo - fetal development were evaluated in two separate studies , which were conducted in pregnant rabbits with pegvisomant at subcutaneous doses of 1 , 3 , and 10 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of teratogenic effects associated with pegvisomant administration during organogenesis .
At the 10 - mg / kg / day dose ( 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose based on body surface area ) , a reproducible , slight increase in post - implantation loss was observed in both studies .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited information from a case report in published literature reported that the level of pegvisomant in human milk was below the level of detection .
There is no information available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for SOMAVERT and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from SOMAVERT or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as the therapeutic benefits of a reduction in growth hormone ( GH ) levels and normalization of insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF - 1 ) concentration in acromegalic females treated with pegvisomant may lead to improved fertility .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of SOMAVERT in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of SOMAVERT did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment SOMAVERT was not studied in patients with renal impairment and the safety and efficacy in these patients is not known .
10 OVERDOSAGE In one reported incident of acute overdose with SOMAVERT during pre - marketing clinical studies , a patient self - administered 80 mg / day ( 2 . 7 times the maximum recommended maintenance dosage ) for seven days .
The patient experienced a slight increase in fatigue , had no other complaints , and demonstrated no significant clinical laboratory abnormalities .
In cases of overdose , administration of SOMAVERT should be discontinued and not resumed until IGF - I levels return to within or above the normal range .
11 DESCRIPTION Pegvisomant is an analog of human growth hormone ( GH ) of recombinant DNA origin that acts as a GH receptor antagonist .
It contains 191 amino acid residues .
The molecular weight of pegvisomant is 22 kDa .
The molecular weight of the PEG portion of pegvisomant is approximately 5 kDa .
The predominant molecular weights of pegvisomant are thus approximately 42 , 47 , and 52 kDa .
The schematic shows the amino acid sequence of the pegvisomant protein ( PEG polymers are shown attached to the 5 most probable attachment sites ) .
Pegvisomant is synthesized by a specific strain of Escherichia coli bacteria that has been genetically modified by the addition of a plasmid that carries a gene for GH receptor antagonist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Stippled residues indicate PEG attachment sites ( Phe1 , Lys38 , Lys41 , Lys70 , Lys115 , Lys120 , Lys140 , Lys145 , Lys158 ) Shown below are the amino acid substitutions in pegvisomant , relative to human GH .
hGH Pegvisomant His18 Asp18 Ala21 Asn21 Gly120 Lys120 Arg167 Asn167 Lys168 Ala168 Asp171 Ser171 Lys172 Arg172 Glu174 Ser174 Ile179 Thr179 SOMAVERT ( pegvisomant ) for injection is a sterile , white lyophilized powder intended for subcutaneous injection after reconstitution .
SOMAVERT is supplied in packages that include a single - dose prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , that is a sterile , nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection that contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent , or added buffer , to be used as a diluent .
SOMAVERT is available in single - dose sterile vials containing 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg or 30 mg of pegvisomant .
SOMAVERT 10 mg , 15 mg , and 20 mg vials also contain glycine ( 1 . 36 mg ) , mannitol ( 36 mg ) , sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate ( 0 . 36 mg ) , and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ( 1 . 04 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 1 mL of Water for Injection , USP , the resulting concentration is 10 mg / mL , 15 mg / mL and 20 mg / mL , respectively , with a pH of 7 . 1 – 7 . 7 .
SOMAVERT 25 mg vial also contains glycine ( 1 . 7 mg ) , mannitol ( 45 mg ) , sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate ( 0 . 45 mg ) , and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ( 1 . 3 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 1 mL of Water for Injection , USP , the resulting concentration is 25 mg / mL with a pH of 7 . 1 – 7 . 7 .
SOMAVERT 30 mg vial also contains glycine ( 2 . 04 mg ) , mannitol ( 54 mg ) , sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate ( 0 . 54 mg ) , and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous ( 1 . 56 mg ) .
After reconstitution with 1 mL of Water for Injection , USP , the resulting concentration is 30 mg / mL with a pH of 7 . 1 – 7 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pegvisomant selectively binds to growth hormone ( GH ) receptors on cell surfaces , where it blocks the binding of endogenous GH , and thus interferes with GH signal transduction .
Inhibition of GH action results in decreased serum concentrations of IGF - I , as well as other GH - responsive serum proteins such as free IGF - I , the acid - labile subunit of IGF - I ( ALS ) , and insulin - like growth factor binding protein - 3 ( IGFBP - 3 ) .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pegvisomant binds selectively to the GH receptor , and does not cross - react with 19 other cytokine receptors tested , including prolactin .
Pegvisomant leads to decreased serum concentrations of IGF - I , free IGF - I , ALS , and IGFBP - 3 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 , Figure 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Following subcutaneous administration , peak serum pegvisomant concentrations are not generally attained until 33 to 77 hours after administration .
The mean extent of absorption of a 20 - mg subcutaneous dose was 57 % , relative to a 10 - mg intravenous dose .
Distribution : The mean apparent volume of distribution of pegvisomant is 7 L ( 12 % coefficient of variation ) , suggesting that pegvisomant does not distribute extensively into tissues .
After a single subcutaneous administration , exposure ( Cmax , AUC ) to pegvisomant increases disproportionately with increasing dose .
Mean ± SEM serum pegvisomant concentrations after 12 weeks of therapy with daily doses of 10 , 15 , and 20 mg were 6600 ± 1330 ; 16 , 000 ± 2200 ; and 27 , 000 ± 3100 ng / mL , respectively .
The relative bioavailability of 1 × 30 mg pegvisomant was compared to 2 × 15 mg pegvisomant in a single - dose study .
The AUCinf and Cmax of pegvisomant when administered as one injection of 30 mg strength was approximately 6 % and 4 % greater , respectively , as compared to when administered as two injections of 15 mg strengths .
Metabolism and Elimination : The pegvisomant molecule contains covalently bound polyethylene glycol polymers in order to reduce the clearance rate .
Clearance of pegvisomant following multiple doses is lower than seen following a single - dose .
The mean total body systemic clearance of pegvisomant following multiple doses is estimated to range between 36 to 28 mL / h for subcutaneous doses ranging from 10 to 20 mg / day , respectively .
Clearance of pegvisomant was found to increase with body weight .
Pegvisomant is eliminated from serum with a mean half - life estimates ranging from 60 to 138 hours following either single or multiple doses .
Less than 1 % of administered drug is recovered in the urine over 96 hours .
The elimination route of pegvisomant has not been studied in humans .
Drug Interaction Studies In clinical studies , patients on opioids often needed higher serum pegvisomant concentrations to achieve appropriate IGF - I suppression compared with patients not receiving opioids .
The mechanism of this interaction is not known [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Specific Populations No pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in patients with renal impairment , patients with hepatic impairment , geriatric patients , or pediatric patients and the effects of race on the pharmacokinetics of pegvisomant has not been studied .
No gender effect on the pharmacokinetics of pegvisomant was found in a population pharmacokinetic analysis .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Pegvisomant was administered subcutaneously to rats daily for 2 years at doses of 2 , 8 , and 20 mg / kg ( about 2 , 9 , and 22 - fold a single 30 mg dose in humans on an AUC basis ) .
Long term treatment with pegvisomant at 8 and 20 mg / kg caused an increase in malignant fibrous histiocytoma at injection sites in males .
Injection site tumors were not seen in female rats at the same doses .
The increased incidence of injection site tumors was most probably caused by irritation and the high sensitivity of the rat to repeated subcutaneous injections .
Mutagenesis Pegvisomant did not cause genetic damage in standard in vitro assays ( bacterial mutation , human lymphocyte chromosome aberration ) .
Impairment of Fertility Fertility studies have not been conducted with pegvisomant .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A total of one hundred twelve patients ( 63 men and 49 women ) with acromegaly participated in a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , multi - center study comparing placebo and SOMAVERT .
The mean ± SD age was 48 ± 14 years , and the mean duration of acromegaly was 8 ± 8 years .
Ninety three had undergone previous pituitary surgery , of which 57 had also been treated with conventional radiation therapy .
Six patients had undergone irradiation without surgery , nine had received only drug therapy , and four had received no previous therapy .
At study start , the mean ± SD time since the subjects ' last surgery and / or irradiation therapy , respectively , was 6 . 8 ± 0 . 93 years ( n = 63 ) and 5 . 6 ± 0 . 57 years ( n = 93 ) .
Subjects were qualified for enrollment if their serum IGF - I , drawn after the required drug washout period , was ≥ 1 . 3 times the upper limit of the age - adjusted normal range .
They were randomly assigned at the baseline visit to one of four treatment groups : placebo ( n = 32 ) , 10 mg / day ( n = 26 ) , 15 mg / day ( n = 26 ) , or 20 mg / day ( n = 28 ) of SOMAVERT subcutaneously IGF - I .
The primary efficacy endpoint was IGF - I percent change in IGF - I concentrations from baseline to week 12 .
The three groups that received SOMAVERT showed statistically significant ( p < 0 . 01 ) reductions in serum levels of IGF - I compared with the placebo group ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 .
Mean Percent Change from Baseline in IGF - I at Week 12 for Intent - to - Treat Population Placebo n = 31 SOMAVERT 10 mg / day n = 26 15 mg / day n = 26 20 mg / day n = 28 Mean baseline IGF - I ( ng / ml ) ( SD ) 670 ( 288 ) 627 ( 251 ) 649 ( 293 ) 732 ( 205 ) Mean percent change from baseline in IGF - I ( SD ) - 4 . 0 ( 17 ) - 27 ( 28 ) - 48 ( 26 ) - 63 ( 21 ) SOMAVERT minus Placebo ( 95 % CI for treatment difference ) - 23 [ 1 ] ( - 35 , - 11 ) - 44 null ( - 56 , - 33 ) - 59 null ( - 68 , - 49 ) [ 1 ] P < 0 . 01 ; n = number of patients ; SD = standard deviation There were also reductions in serum levels of free IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and ALS compared with placebo at all post - baseline visits ( Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 .
Effects of SOMAVERT on Serum Markers ( Mean ± Standard Error ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] After 12 weeks of treatment , the following percentages of patients had normalized IGF - 1 ( Figure 2 ) : Figure 2 .
Percent of Patients Whose IGF - I Levels Normalized at Week 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 5 shows the effect of treatment with SOMAVERT on ring size ( standard jeweler ' s sizes converted to a numeric score ranging from 1 to 63 ) , and on signs and symptoms of acromegaly .
Each individual score for a sign or symptom of acromegaly ( for soft - tissue swelling , arthralgia , headache , perspiration and fatigue ) was based on a nine - point ordinal rating scale ( 0 = absent and 8 = severe and incapacitating ) , and the total score for signs or symptoms of acromegaly was derived from the sum of the individual scores .
Mean baseline scores were as follows : ring size = 47 . 1 ; total signs and symptoms = 15 . 2 ; soft tissue swelling = 2 . 5 ; arthralgia = 3 . 2 ; headache = 2 . 4 ; perspiration = 3 . 3 ; and fatigue = 3 . 7 .
Table 5 .
Mean Change from Baseline ( SD ) at Week 12 for Ring Size and Signs and Symptoms of Acromegaly Placebo n = 30 SOMAVERT 10 mg / day n = 26 15 mg / day n = 24 – 25 20 mg / day n = 26 – 27 Ring size - 0 . 1 ( 2 . 3 ) - 0 . 8 ( 1 . 6 ) - 1 . 9 ( 2 . 0 ) - 2 . 5 ( 3 . 3 ) Total score for signs and symptoms of acromegaly 1 . 3 ( 6 . 0 ) - 2 . 5 ( 4 . 3 ) - 4 . 4 ( 5 . 9 ) - 4 . 7 ( 4 . 7 ) Soft - tissue swelling 0 . 3 ( 2 . 3 ) - 0 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) - 1 . 2 ( 2 . 3 ) - 1 . 3 ( 1 . 3 ) Arthralgia 0 . 1 ( 1 . 8 ) - 0 . 3 ( 1 . 8 ) - 0 . 5 ( 2 . 5 ) - 0 . 4 ( 2 . 1 ) Headache 0 . 1 ( 1 . 7 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 6 ) - 0 . 3 ( 1 . 4 ) - 0 . 3 ( 2 . 0 ) Perspiration 0 . 1 ( 1 . 7 ) - 0 . 6 ( 1 . 6 ) - 1 . 1 ( 1 . 3 ) - 1 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) Fatigue 0 . 7 ( 1 . 5 ) - 0 . 5 ( 1 . 4 ) - 1 . 3 ( 1 . 7 ) - 1 . 0 ( 1 . 6 ) Serum growth hormone ( GH ) concentrations , as measured by research assays using antibodies that do not cross - react with pegvisomant , rose within two weeks of beginning treatment with SOMAVERT .
The largest increase in GH concentration was seen in patients treated with doses of SOMAVERT 20 mg / day .
This effect is presumably the result of diminished inhibition of GH secretion as IGF - I levels fall .
As shown in Figure 3 , when patients with acromegaly were given a loading dose of SOMAVERT followed by a fixed daily dose , the rise in GH was inversely proportional to the fall in IGF - I and generally stabilized by week 2 .
Serum GH concentrations remained stable in patients treated with SOMAVERT for the average of 43 weeks ( range , 0 – 82 weeks ) .
Figure 3 .
Percent Change in Serum GH and IGF - I Concentrations [ MULTIMEDIA ] In the open - label extension to the clinical study , 109 subjects ( including 6 new patients ) with mean treatment exposure of 42 . 6 weeks ( range 1 day – 82 weeks ) , 93 ( 85 . 3 % ) subjects had an adverse event , 16 ( 14 . 7 % ) had an SAE , and 4 ( 3 . 7 % ) discontinued due to an AE ( headaches , elevated liver function tests , pancreatic cancer , and weight gain ) .
A total of 100 ( 92 . 6 % ) of the 108 subjects with available IGF - I data had a normal IGF - I concentration at any visit during the study .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING SOMAVERT ( pegvisomant ) for injection is a white lyophilized powder supplied in the following strengths and package configurations : One Day Package Configuration Strength NDC Description 10 mg per vial 0009 - 7166 - 01 One single - dose vial with one prefilled syringe containing 1 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) and a separate 27 - gauge ½ inch safety needle per carton 15 mg per vial 0009 - 7168 - 01 20 mg per vial 0009 - 7188 - 01 25 mg per vial 0009 - 7199 - 01 30 mg per vial 0009 - 7200 - 01 30 - Day Package Configuration Strength NDC Description 10 mg per vial 0009 - 7166 - 30 Each outer carton contains three intermediate cartons , 30 prefilled syringes containing 1 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water for Injection , USP ) , and 30 separate 27 - gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Each intermediate carton contains ten single - dose vials of Somavert .
15 mg per vial 0009 - 7168 - 30 20 mg per vial 0009 - 7188 - 30 25 mg per vial 0009 - 7199 - 30 30 mg per vial 0009 - 7200 - 30 Storage Prior to reconstitution : • The One Day Package of SOMAVERT should be stored in a refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
• For the 30 - Day Package , remove the three intermediate cartons containing the SOMAVERT vials and store in a refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
• For convenience , the One Day Package and intermediate cartons in the 30 - Day Package containing the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) , may be stored at room temperature up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) for a single period of up to 30 days .
• In the space provided on the carton , record the date when the carton was removed from the refrigerator and the discard date ( 30 days after removal from the refrigerator ) .
• Once the carton has been stored at room temperature , it should not be placed back into the refrigerator .
If not used within 30 days at room temperature , the vial ( s ) should be discarded .
Discard the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) after the expiration date printed on the carton or the discard date , whichever is sooner .
The prefilled syringe ( s ) may be stored at a temperature up to 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) until the expiration date printed on the carton , at which point they should be discarded .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Inform patients ( and / or their caregivers ) of the following information to aid in the safe and effective use of SOMAVERT : • Not to use SOMAVERT if they are allergic to SOMAVERT or anything in it .
• They will need blood testing to check IGF - I levels and liver tests before and during treatment with SOMAVERT and that the dose of SOMAVERT may be changed based on the results of these tests .
• SOMAVERT has not been studied in pregnant women and instruct them to notify their healthcare provider as soon as they are aware that they are pregnant .
• It is not known whether SOMAVERT is excreted in human milk and instruct them to notify their healthcare provider if they plan to do so .
• Pregnancy : Inform female patients that treatment with SOMAVERT may result in unintended pregnancy [ see Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients ( and / or their caregivers ) of the following adverse reactions : • The most common reported adverse reactions are injection site reaction , elevations of liver tests , pain , nausea , and diarrhea .
• If they have liver test elevations they may need to have more frequent liver tests and / or discontinue SOMAVERT .
Instruct patients to immediately discontinue therapy and contact their physician if they become jaundiced .
• GH - secreting tumors may enlarge in people with acromegaly and that these tumors need to be watched carefully and monitored by MRI imaging .
• Thickening under the skin may occur at the injection site that could lead to lumps and that switching sites may prevent or lessen this .
• If they have diabetes mellitus , they may require careful monitoring and dose reductions of insulin and / or oral hypoglycemic agents while on SOMAVERT .
• If they take opioids , they may need higher SOMAVERT doses to achieve appropriate IGF - I suppression .
Inform patients ( and / or their caregivers ) about the storage options prior to reconstitution of the product [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Advise patients to follow the directions for reconstitution provided in the Instructions for Use .
Include that spraying the diluent directly onto the powder may cause foaming and that shaking may induce denaturation ( destruction ) of the active ingredient ( therefore do not shake ) .
This product ' s labeling may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] U . S . License No . 1216 LAB - 0782 - 3 . 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 8 / 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION SOMAVERT ( SOM - ah - vert ) ( pegvisomant ) for injection , for subcutaneous use What is SOMAVERT ?
SOMAVERT is a prescription medicine used to treat people who have too much growth hormone ( acromegaly ) .
SOMAVERT is used to treat people who are not able to be treated or have not already been helped by surgery or radiation .
It is not known if SOMAVERT is safe and effective in children .
Before you use SOMAVERT , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are allergic to pegvisomant or any of the ingredients in SOMAVERT .
Do not take SOMAVERT if you are allergic to pegvisomant or any of the ingredients in SOMAVERT .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in SOMAVERT .
• have diabetes • have or have had liver problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if SOMAVERT will harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while using SOMAVERT .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if SOMAVERT passes into your breast milk .
You and your health care provider should decide how you will feed your baby if you take SOMAVERT .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
SOMAVERT may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how SOMAVERT works .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • insulin or other medicines used to treat diabetes • narcotics ( opioid medicines ) .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose of SOMAVERT if you take opioids .
If you are not sure , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist whether you take these medicines .
How should I use SOMAVERT ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information for information about the right way to use SOMAVERT .
• Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your liver and insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) levels before you start and while you use SOMAVERT .
Your healthcare provider may need to change your dose of SOMAVERT .
• SOMAVERT is given 1 time each day as an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous ) .
Some people may need to give 2 injections for their dose each day .
Your healthcare provider will tell you if you need to give 2 injections for your dose .
• Your first injection of SOMAVERT should be given by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider will teach you or your caregiver how to use SOMAVERT .
• If you use too much SOMAVERT , call your healthcare provider right away .
• If you miss a dose of SOMAVERT , just take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
If you are not sure about your dosing , ask your healthcare provider .
What are the possible side effects of SOMAVERT ?
SOMAVERT may cause serious side effects , including : • changes in your blood sugar level .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose of diabetes medicine while you take SOMAVERT .
• liver problems .
Stop injecting SOMAVERT right away and call your healthcare provider if you have any of the following symptoms of liver problems : • yellowing of your eyes ( jaundice ) • dark , amber - colored urine • feeling very tired ( fatigue or exhaustion ) • nausea and vomiting • pain in your stomach ( abdomen ) • generalized swelling • bruising easily • skin thickening at your injection site that could lead to lumps ( lipohypertrophy ) • allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction : • swelling of your face , tongue , lips , or throat • wheezing or trouble breathing • skin rash , redness , or swelling • sever itching • dizziness or fainting The most common side effects of SOMAVERT include : • pain • infection • nausea • flu syndrome • injection site reaction • diarrhea • abnormal liver tests .
If your liver test results are too high , you may have to have more frequent liver tests These are not all of the possible side effects of SOMAVERT .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store SOMAVERT ?
• Before you mix the SOMAVERT powder and the liquid : • Store SOMAVERT in a refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• For convenience , the One Day Package and intermediate cartons in the 30 - Day Package containing the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) , may be stored at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for a single period of up to 30 days .
• In the space provided on the carton , record the date when the carton was removed from the refrigerator and the discard date ( 30 days after removal from the refrigerator ) .
• Once the carton has been stored at room temperature , it should not be placed back into the refrigerator .
If not used within 30 days at room temperature , the vial ( s ) should be thrown away .
• Throw away the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) after the expiration date printed on the carton or the discard date , whichever is sooner .
• The prefilled syringe ( s ) maybe stored at temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) until the expiration date printed on the carton .
After that time , they should be thrown away .
• Do not freeze SOMAVERT .
• Read the INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE for the right way to mix SOMAVERT .
• After you mix the SOMAVERT powder and liquid : • Keep the mixed SOMAVERT at room temperature between 59 ° F to 77 ° F ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep SOMAVERT inside the vial or the syringe until you are ready to inject it .
• You must use the mixed SOMAVERT immediately after you mix it .
• If you have not used the mixed SOMAVERT immediately , throw it away .
Keep SOMAVERT and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of SOMAVERT .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use SOMAVERT for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give SOMAVERT to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about SOMAVERT .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about SOMAVERT that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in SOMAVERT ?
Active ingredient : pegvisomant , including polyethylene glycol Inactive ingredients : glycine , mannitol , sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate , and sodium phosphate dibasic anhydrous .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] U . S . License No . 1216 LAB - 0783 - 3 . 0 For more information , go to www . SOMAVERT . com or call 1 - 800 - 645 - 1280 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE SOMAVERT ® ( SOM - ah - vert ) ( pegvisomant ) for injection , for subcutaneous use Read these Instructions for Use before you start using SOMAVERT and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Your healthcare provider should show you or a caregiver how to inject SOMAVERT the right way before you inject it for the first time .
SOMAVERT is available in two types of packaging : • One Day Package ( containing one single - dose vial of SOMAVERT powder , a prefilled syringe , and a safety needle ) • 30 - Day Package ( containing three intermediate cartons of 10 single - dose vials of SOMAVERT powder , 30 prefilled syringes , and 30 safety needles ) • Before you mix the SOMAVERT powder and the liquid : • Store SOMAVERT in a refrigerator at 36 ºF to 46 ºF ( 2 ºC to 8 ºC ) .
• For convenience , the One Day Package and intermediate cartons in the 30 - Day Package containing the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) , may be stored at room temperature up to 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for a single period of up to 30 days .
• In the space provided on the carton , record the date when the carton was removed from the refrigerator and the discard date ( 30 days after removal from the refrigerator ) .
• Once the carton has been stored at room temperature , it should not be placed back into the refrigerator .
If not used within 30 days at room temperature , the vial ( s ) should be thrown away .
• Throw away the SOMAVERT vial ( s ) after the expiration date printed on the carton or the discard date , whichever is sooner .
• The prefilled syringe ( s ) maybe stored at temperature up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) until the expiration date printed on the carton .
After that time , they should be thrown away .
• Do not freeze SOMAVERT .
Important : • Do not share your SOMAVERT syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get an infection from them .
• SOMAVERT comes in a vial as a white block of powder .
You must mix SOMAVERT with a liquid ( diluent ) before you can use it .
The liquid comes in a single - dose prefilled syringe labeled ' Sterile Water for Injection ' .
Do not use any other liquid to mix with SOMAVERT .
• You must use the mixed SOMAVERT immediately after you mix it .
If you have not used the mixed SOMAVERT immediately , throw it away .
Step 1 .
Things you need • A vial of SOMAVERT powder .
• A prefilled syringe .
• A safety needle .
You will also need : • A cotton ball .
• An alcohol swab .
• A sharps disposal container .
See " Dispose " at the end of these instructions .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Getting ready Before you start : • Only mix SOMAVERT and the liquid when you are ready to inject your dose .
• SOMAVERT One Day Package : If refrigerated , remove the package and allow it to come to room temperature in a safe place for at least 10 minutes before you need to use it .
• SOMAVERT 30 - Day Package : If refrigerated , remove a single vial from the intermediate carton and allow it to come to room temperature in a safe place for at least 10 minutes before you need to use it .
• Do not heat the vial or syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave .
Let it warm up on its own .
• Wash your hands with soap and water , and dry completely .
• Peel open the packaging of the syringe and safety needle to make it easier to pick up each item as you prepare for your injection .
• Do not use the syringe or vial if : • they are damaged or faulty • the expiration date has passed • it has been frozen , even if it has now thawed ( syringe only ) Step 3 .
Choose injection area [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Choose a different location within an area for each injection .
• Avoid bony areas or areas that are bruised , red , sore or hard , or areas that have scars or skin conditions .
• Clean the injection area with the alcohol swab as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• Allow the injection area to dry .
Step 4 .
Remove vial cap [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the cap from the vial .
• Throw the cap away .
It is not needed again .
Caution : Do not let anything touch the vial stopper .
Step 5 .
Remove syringe cap [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Snap off the syringe cap leaving the syringe collar in place .
It may take more effort to snap off than you might expect .
• Throw the syringe cap away .
It is not needed again .
• Keep the syringe upright to avoid leakage .
Caution : Do not let the end of the syringe touch anything when the syringe cap is off .
Step 6 .
Attach safety needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push down and twist the safety needle firmly onto the syringe as far as it will go .
Step 7 .
Remove needle cover [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Fold the needle guard out of the way of the needle cover .
• Carefully pull the needle cover straight off .
• Throw the needle cover away .
It is not needed again .
Caution : Do not let the needle touch anything .
Step 8 .
Insert needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push the needle through the center of vial stopper , as shown .
• Support the syringe while the needle is in the vial stopper to prevent bending the needle .
Step 9 .
Add liquid [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Tilt both the vial and syringe at an angle , as shown .
• Push the plunger rod down slowly until all the liquid has emptied into the vial .
• Caution : Do not squirt the liquid directly onto the powder .
This creates foam .
Foam makes the medicine unusable .
• Do not withdraw the needle yet .
Step 10 .
Swirl vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Support both the syringe and vial in 1 hand , as shown .
• Gently and slowly swirl the liquid , sliding the vial in a circular motion on a flat surface .
• Continue swirling the liquid until all the powder has fully dissolved .
Note : This may take up to 5 minutes .
Do not shake .
Step 11 .
Check medicine [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Keeping the needle in the vial , look carefully at the medicine .
It must be clear and free of particles .
• Do not use if : • the medicine is cloudy or hazy • the medicine has any color at all • there are any particles or foam in the vial • If you have any doubts about your medication go to www . SOMAVERT . com or call 1 - 800 - 645 - 1280 .
Step 12 .
Reposition needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Turn the vial so that you can see the stopper gap , as shown .
• Pull the needle down so that the needle tip is at the lowest point in the liquid .
This will help you to draw off as much liquid as possible .
• Check that the plunger rod has not moved .
If the plunger rod has moved , then push it back all the way into the syringe .
This ensures that all air is removed from the syringe before you draw off the dose .
Step 13 .
Draw off dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Slowly pull back the plunger rod to withdraw as much medicine as possible from the vial .
Note : If you see air in the syringe , tap the barrel to float the bubbles to the top , and then gently push the bubbles out into the vial .
• Pull the needle out of the vial .
Step 14 .
Insert needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Gently pinch the skin at the site of injection .
• Insert the needle to its full depth into the pinched skin .
Step 15 .
Inject medicine [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push the plunger rod down slowly until the barrel is empty .
Note : Make sure you keep the needle in at full depth .
• Release the pinched skin and pull the needle straight out .
Step 16 .
Make needle safe [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Fold the needle guard over the needle .
Gently apply pressure using a hard surface to lock the needle guard in place .
• Note : You will hear a click when the needle guard has been locked .
Step 17 .
Dispose [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Put your used syringes in a FDA cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
• Do not throw away ( dispose of ) syringes in your household trash .
Note : If you do not have a FDA cleared sharps disposal container , please refer to the safe syringe disposal information on the right hand side of this leaflet .
Step 18 .
After injection [ MULTIMEDIA ] • If necessary , use a clean cotton ball and press lightly on the injection area .
• Do not rub the area .
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS What should I do if anything has accidentally touched the vial stopper ?
• Clean the vial stopper with a fresh alcohol wipe , and leave it to dry completely .
If you are unable to clean the stopper , do not use the vial .
What should I do with the syringe if it has been dropped ?
• Do not use it even if it looks undamaged .
Dispose of the syringe in the same way as a used syringe .
You will need a replacement syringe .
How many times can I safely insert the needle into the vial stopper ?
• Only 1 time .
Withdrawing and reinserting greatly increases the risk of needle damage , and will blunt the needle .
This can cause discomfort and increases risk of skin damage and infection .
There is also a risk you may lose some of the medicine .
Is it okay to shake the vial if the powder is not dissolving ?
• No .
Never shake the vial .
Shaking can destroy the medicine and create foam .
The powder may take a few minutes to dissolve fully , so continue swirling the vial gently until the liquid is completely clear .
How can I tell if there is any foam in the vial ?
• Foam looks like a mass of small bubbles that float as a layer to the top of the liquid .
Do not inject SOMAVERT if it has foamed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How can I prevent the medicine from foaming ?
• Press the plunger very slowly so that the liquid gently runs down the inside of the vial .
Do not spray the liquid directly onto the powder , because this creates foam .
This will also reduce the swirling time and allow more of the medicine to be drawn off .
I can see some air in the syringe .
Is this okay ?
• Tiny air bubbles in the liquid are normal and are safe to inject .
However , it is possible to accidently draw air into the syringe , which should be removed before injecting .
Bubbles or air gaps that float to the top of the liquid should be pushed back out into the vial .
Why can I not get all of the medicine out of the vial ?
• The shape of the vial means that a very small amount of the medicine will be left behind in the vial .
This is normal .
To ensure that only a trace of medicine remains , make sure the needle tip is as low as it can be in the vial when drawing off your dose .
What should I do if I have any doubts about my medicine ?
• For more information , go to www . SOMAVERT . com or call 1 - 800 - 645 - 1280 .
Safe syringe disposal information If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] U . S . License No . 1216 LAB - 0784 - 2 . 0 Revised : August 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Syringe Label 1 mL SINGLE - DOSE NDC 0009 - 5936 - 01 Sterile Water for Injection , USP For reconstitution of SOMAVERT ® Contains no antimicrobial or other added substance .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Manufactured by Pharmacia & Upjohn Company LLC A subsidiary of Pfizer Inc New York , NY 10017 U . S . License No . 1216 LOT / EXP Rx only PAA171515 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Vial Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 5175 - 02 Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 10 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Use Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Rx only PAA169838 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7166 - 01 NDC 0009 - 7166 - 01 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 10 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Contents : One Somavert single - dose vial , one diluent prefilled syringe containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and one 27 gauge ½ inch safety needle .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Vial Carton Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 5175 - 10 10 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of intermediate carton : Ten single - dose vials of Somavert Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7166 - 30 NDC 0009 - 7166 - 30 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 10 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of outer carton : Three intermediate cartons ( each containing ten single - dose vials of Somavert ) , thirty diluent prefilled syringes containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and thirty 27 gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mg Vial Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 5177 - 02 Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 15 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Use Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Rx only PAA169992 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7168 - 01 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 7168 - 01 15 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Contents : One Somavert single - dose vial , one diluent prefilled syringe containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and one 27 gauge ½ inch safety needle .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mg Vial Carton Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 5177 - 10 15 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of intermediate carton : Ten single - dose vials of Somavert Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7168 - 30 NDC 0009 - 7168 - 30 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 15 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of outer carton : Three intermediate cartons ( each containing ten single - dose vials of Somavert ) , thirty diluent prefilled syringes containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and thirty 27 gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Vial Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 5179 - 02 Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 20 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Use Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Rx only PAA169996 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7188 - 01 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 7188 - 01 20 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Contents : One Somavert single - dose vial , one diluent prefilled syringe containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and one 27 gauge ½ inch safety needle .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Vial Carton Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 5179 - 10 20 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of intermediate carton : Ten single - dose vials of Somavert Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7188 - 30 NDC 0009 - 7188 - 30 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 20 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of outer carton : Three intermediate cartons ( each containing ten single - dose vials of Somavert ) , thirty diluent prefilled syringes containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and thirty 27 gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Vial Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 5201 - 04 Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 25 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Use Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Rx only PAA170000 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7199 - 01 NDC 0009 - 7199 - 01 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 25 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Contents : One Somavert single - dose vial , one diluent prefilled syringe containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and one 27 gauge ½ inch safety needle .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Vial Carton NDC 0009 - 5201 - 10 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 25 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of intermediate carton : Ten single - dose vials of Somavert Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7199 - 30 NDC 0009 - 7199 - 30 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 25 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of outer carton : Three intermediate cartons ( each containing ten single - dose vials of Somavert ) , thirty diluent prefilled syringes containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and thirty 27 gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mg Vial Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 5376 - 04 Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 30 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Use Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Rx only PAA171451 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7200 - 01 NDC 0009 - 7200 - 01 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 30 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only One Single - Dose Vial Discard unused portion .
Contents : One Somavert single - dose vial , one diluent prefilled syringe containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and one 27 gauge ½ inch safety needle .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mg Vial Carton Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection NDC 0009 - 5376 - 10 30 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of intermediate carton : Ten single - dose vials of Somavert Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton - 7200 - 30 NDC 0009 - 7200 - 30 Pfizer Somavert ® ( pegvisomant ) for injection 30 mg / vial For Subcutaneous Injection Only Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
Contents of outer carton : Three intermediate cartons ( each containing ten single - dose vials of Somavert ) , thirty diluent prefilled syringes containing 1 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP and thirty 27 gauge ½ inch safety needles .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
