This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE ( 0 . 23 % , weight / weight ( w / w ) • Dehydroacetic Acid • Benzoic Acid • Lauryl Glucoside • Glycerin • Propylene Glycol • Etidronate Tetrasodium • Octadecanoıc Acid , ( Octadecylimıno ) Di - 2 , 1 - Ethanediyl Ester • Fatty - Acid Amide Hydrolase 1 • Phenoxyethanol • Dicaprylyl Carbonate • Glyceryl Oleate • Polysorbate 20 • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 23 % w / w .
Purpose : Antibacterial - Antifungal Purpose Antibacterial / Antifungal Wet Wipes Use Antibacterial Wet Wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings Keep away from food and animal feeds .
For external use only .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When Using this product do not inhale the vapour or grains of the product if occurs .
Do not eat or drink or smoke while using the product .
Follow all the instructions to avoid risks on human and environmental health .
In case of inhaling : Give fresh air or oxygen .
If you feel unwell , consult a doctor .
In case of skin contact : This product is produced to contact with the skin .
Seek a doctor if redness , swelling , itching , or burning occurs on skin .
In case of contact with eyes : If you are wearing contact lenses , remove them immediately . Rinse your eyes with plenty of clean water .
In case of swallowing : Rinse mouth .
Do not vomiting .
If unconscious , never give anything by mouth .
If it is vomiting , do not lay it on its back and lay it on its side .
Call your local Toxication Center and get medical help .
Seek a doctor if redness , swelling , itching , or burning occurs on skin .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions DIRECTIONS Provides practical cleaning without the need of water and soap .
It is used for hand cleaning .
Open the label and pick up a wipe .
Gently wipe your hands with antibacterial wipe .
No rising required .
Other information Store the product dry , cool , clean place and keep away from direct sunlight .
Keep away from children and pets .
Inactive ingredients Dehydroacetic Acid , Benzoic Acid , Lauryl Glucoside , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Etidronate Tetrasodium , Octadecanoıc Acid , ( Octadecylimıno ) Di - 2 , 1 - Ethanediyl Ester , Fatty - Acid Amide Hydrolase 1 , Phenoxyethanol , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Glyceryl Oleate , Polysorbate 20 , Sterile distilled water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 100 pcs NDC : 86815 - 003 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 pcs NDC : 86815 - 003 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
