Active Ingredients Lidocaine 4 % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Topical Anesthetic Purpose TOPICAL ANESTHETIC Idications and Usage Uses : Temporaily relieves minor pains .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not Use ■ more than one patch on your body at a time ■ on cut , irritated or swollen skin ■ on puncture wounds ■ for more than one week without consulting a doctor ■ if you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients ■ if pouch is damaged or opened .
When using this product ■ use only as directed ■ read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton ■ do not allow contact with the eyes ■ do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics ■ do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use ■ do not microwave ■ dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and consult a doctor ■ condition worsens ■ redness is present ■ irritation develops ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days ■ you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 222 right away .
Dosage and Administration Directions Adults and children over 12 years : ■ clean and dry affected area ■ carefully remove backing from patch starting at a corner ■ apply sticky side of patch to affected area ■ use one patch for up to 12 hours .
■ Discard patch after single use ■ Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other Safety Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive Ingredients Aluminum Glycinate , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Glycerin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , Kaolin , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , Povidone , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water , 3 - ( 2 - ethylhexyloxy ) propane - 1 , 2 - diol .
Questions TOLL - FREE Customer Care Help Line 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Mon – Fri 8 : 30 am – 4 : 30 pm CST DIST .
BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 www . topcarebrand . com Made in China Albertsons Pain Relief Patch with 4 % Lidocaine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
