ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Glycerin , USP 14 . 4 % Phenylephrine HCI , 0 . 25 % Pramoxine HCI , 1 % White petrolatum , 15 % PURPOSE Protectant Vasoconstrictor Local anesthetic Protectant USES • Temporarily relieves pain , soreness and burning • Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue • Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • Temporarily protects the inflamed , irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful WARNINGS Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression .
When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • the introduction of the applicator causes additional pain • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • an allergic reaction develops • the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Adults : • When practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or soft cloth before applying cream .
• When first opening the tube , puncture foil seal with top end of cap • Apply externally or in the lower portion of the anal canal only • Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning or after each bowel movement • For application in the lower anal canal : remove cover from dispensing cap .
Attach dispensing cap to tube .
Lubricate applicator well , then gently insert applicator into the rectum .
• Thoroughly clean dispensing cap after each use and replace cover Children under 12 years : ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature : 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS aloe barbadensis leaf extract , BHA , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , edetate disodium , glyceryl stearate , laureth - 23 , methylparaben , mineral oil , panthenol , propyl gallate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium benzoate , steareth - 2 , steareth - 20 , stearyl alcohol , tocopherol .
vitamin E , xanthan gum Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 PACKAGE INFORMATION - TUBE up and up NDC 11673 - 572 - 24 Hemorrhoidal Cream maximum strength Compare to Preparation H ® Hemorrhoidal Cream * Helps shrink swelling of irritated hemorrhoidal tissues NET WT 1 . 8 OZ ( 51 g ) This tube is sealed and packaged in a carton .
Do not buy if carton is missing .
Do not use if the seal under the cap has been punctured or if the tube is damaged .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Wyeth Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Preparation H ® .
Dist .
by Target Corp .
Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . ® and © 2009 Target Brands , Inc .
All Rights Reserved Shop Target . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE INFORMATION - BOX up and up NDC 11673 - 572 - 24 Hemorrhoidal Cream maximum strength Compare to Preparation H ® Hemorrhoidal Cream * Helps shrink swelling of irritated hemorrhoidal tissues NET WT 1 . 8 OZ ( 51 g ) DO NOT USE IF SEAL UNDER CAP OF TUBE IS BROKEN OR MISSING WHEN PURCHASED .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Wyeth Consumer Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Preparation H ® .
Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . ® and © 2009 Target Brands , Inc .
All Rights Reserved Shop Target . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
