Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) 05 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FOLOTYN is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T - cell lymphoma ( PTCL ) .
This indication is based on overall response rate .
Clinical benefit such as improvement in progression - free survival or overall survival has not been demonstrated .
FOLOTYN is a folate analog metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T - cell lymphoma ( PTCL ) .
This indication is based on overall response rate .
Clinical benefit such as improvement in progression - free survival or overall survival has not been demonstrated .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 30 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous push over 3 to 5 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles .
( 2 . 1 ) • • For patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg / m2 ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • Prior to initiating FOLOTYN , supplement patients with vitamin B12 1 mg intramuscularly every 8 - 10 weeks and folic acid 1 . 0 - 1 . 25 mg orally on a daily basis .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Dose omissions and / or dose reductions may be needed to manage adverse drug reactions .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing and Administration Pretreatment Vitamin Supplementation Folic Acid : Patients should take folic acid 1 . 0 - 1 . 25 mg orally once daily beginning 10 days before the first dose of FOLOTYN .
Continue folic acid during the full course of therapy and for 30 days after the last dose of FOLOTYN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Vitamin B12 : Administer vitamin B12 1 mg intramuscularly within 10 weeks prior to the first dose of FOLOTYN and every 8 - 10 weeks thereafter .
Subsequent vitamin B12 injections may be given the same day as treatment with FOLOTYN [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Dosing and Administration The recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 30 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous push over 3 - 5 minutes via the side port of a free - flowing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , intravenous line once weekly for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity .
The calculated dose of FOLOTYN should be aseptically withdrawn into a syringe for immediate use .
Do not dilute FOLOTYN .
For patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg / m2 .
FOLOTYN is a clear , yellow solution .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use any vials exhibiting particulate matter or discoloration .
2 . 2 Monitoring and Dose Modifications Management of severe or intolerable adverse reactions may require dose omission , reduction , or discontinuation of FOLOTYN therapy .
Monitoring Monitor complete blood cell counts and severity of mucositis at baseline and weekly .
Perform serum chemistry tests , including renal and hepatic function , prior to the start of the first and fourth dose of each cycle .
Dose Modification Recommendations Prior to administering any dose of FOLOTYN : • • Mucositis should be ≤ Grade 1 .
• • Platelet count should be ≥ 100 , 000 / mcL for first dose and ≥ 50 , 000 / mcL for all subsequent doses .
• • Absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) should be ≥ 1 , 000 / mcL .
Doses may be omitted or reduced based on patient tolerance .
Omitted doses will not be made up at the end of the cycle ; once a dose reduction occurs for toxicity , do not re - escalate .
For dose modifications and omissions , use the guidelines in Tables 1 , 2 , and 3 .
For patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the recommended starting dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg / m2 with dose modification to 10 mg / m2 for the toxicities specified in Tables 1 , 2 , and 3 .
Table 1 FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for Mucositis Mucositis Gradea on Day of Treatment Action Dose upon Recovery to ≤ Grade 1 Dose Upon Recovery in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Grade 2 Omit dose Continue prior dose Continue prior dose Grade 2 recurrence Omit dose 20 mg / m2 10 mg / m2 Grade 3 Omit dose 20 mg / m2 10 mg / m2 Grade 4 Stop therapy a Per National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI CTCAE , Version 3 . 0 ) Table 2 FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for Hematologic Toxicities Blood Count on Day of Treatment Duration of Toxicity Action Dose upon Restart Dose Upon Recovery in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Platelet < 50 , 000 / mcL 1 week Omit dose Continue prior dose Continue prior dose 2 weeks Omit dose 20 mg / m2 10 mg / m2 3 weeks Stop therapy ANC 500 - 1 , 000 / mcL and no fever 1 week Omit dose Continue prior dose Continue prior dose ANC 500 - 1 , 000 / mcL with fever or ANC < 500 / mcL 1 week Omit dose , give G ‑ CSF or GM ‑ CSF support Continue prior dose with G - CSF or GM ‑ CSF support Continue prior dose with G - CSF or GM ‑ CSF support 2 weeks or recurrence Omit dose , give G ‑ CSF or GM ‑ CSF support 20 mg / m2 with G - CSF or GM - CSF support 10 mg / m2 with G - CSF or GM - CSF support 3 weeks or 2 nd recurrence Stop therapy G - CSF = granulocyte colony - stimulating factor ; GM - CSF = granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor Table 3 FOLOTYN Dose Modifications for All Other Treatment - related Toxicities Toxicity Grade a on Day of Treatment Action Dose upon Recovery to ≤ Grade 2 Dose Upon Recovery in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Grade 3 Omit dose 20 mg / m2 10 mg / m2 Grade 4 Stop therapy a Per National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI CTCAE , Version 3 . 0 ) 2 . 3 Special Handling Precautions FOLOTYN is a cytotoxic anticancer agent .
Caution should be exercised in handling , preparing , and administering of the solution .
The use of gloves and other protective clothing is recommended .
If FOLOTYN comes in contact with the skin , immediately and thoroughly wash with soap and water .
If FOLOTYN comes in contact with mucous membranes , flush thoroughly with water .
Several published guidelines for handling and disposal of anticancer agents are available1 - 4 .
• • FOLOTYN vials should be refrigerated at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) until use .
• • FOLOTYN vials should be stored in original carton to protect from light until use .
• • FOLOTYN vials contain no preservatives and are intended for single use only .
After withdrawal of dose , discard vial including any unused portion .
• • Unopened vial ( s ) of FOLOTYN are stable if stored in the original carton at room temperature for 72 hours .
Any vials left at room temperature for greater than 72 hours should be discarded .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS FOLOTYN is available as a clear yellow solution in sterile , single - dose vials containing pralatrexate at a concentration of 20 mg / mL in the following presentations : 20 mg of pralatrexate in 1 mL solution in a vial ( 20 mg / 1 mL ) 40 mg of pralatrexate in 2 mL solution in a vial ( 40 mg / 2 mL ) • • Sterile , single - dose vials containing pralatrexate at a concentration of 20 mg / mL in the following presentations : • - 20 mg of pralatrexate in 1 mL solution in a vial ( 20 mg / 1 mL ) ( 3 ) • - 40 mg of pralatrexate in 2 mL solution in a vial ( 40 mg / 2 mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • • None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and anemia : Monitor blood counts and omit and / or reduce dose for hematologic toxicities .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • • Mucositis : Monitor at least weekly .
If ≥ Grade 2 mucositis is observed , omit and / or reduce dose .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • • Dermatologic reactions : Reactions , including fatal reactions , have occurred and may be progressive and increase in severity with further treatment .
Monitor closely , and omit and / or reduce dose or discontinue FOLOTYN .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • • Tumor lysis syndrome : Anticipate , monitor , and treat promptly .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hepatic toxicity : Monitor for toxicity .
For liver function test abnormalities Grade 3 or greater , omit until recovery then reduce dose or discontinue therapy as required .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 5 ) • • Risk of increased toxicity with renal impairment : Patients with moderate to severe renal function impairment may be at greater risk for increased exposure and toxicity .
Monitor patients for renal function and systemic toxicity and adjust dosing accordingly .
Avoid FOLOTYN use in patients with end stage renal disease including those undergoing dialysis unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 5 . 6 , 6 . 2 ) • • Embryo - Fetal toxicity : Women should avoid becoming pregnant while being treated with FOLOTYN .
Inform pregnant women of the potential harm to the fetus .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Bone Marrow Suppression FOLOTYN can cause bone marrow suppression , manifested by thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and / or anemia .
Monitor complete blood counts and omit and / or reduce the dose based on ANC and platelet count prior to each dose as outlined in Section 2 . 2 Table 2 .
Administer vitamin B12 and instruct patients to take folic acid to reduce the risk of treatment - related hematological toxicity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Mucositis FOLOTYN can cause mucositis .
Monitor for mucositis weekly and if ≥ Grade 2 mucositis is observed , omit and / or reduce the dose as outlined in Section 2 . 2 Table 1 .
Administer vitamin B12 and instruct patients to take folic acid to reduce the risk of mucositis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Dermatologic Reactions FOLOTYN can cause severe dermatologic reactions , which may result in death .
These dermatologic reactions have been reported in clinical studies ( 14 / 663 patients [ 2 . 1 % ] ) and post marketing experience , and have included skin exfoliation , ulceration , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) .
They may be progressive and increase in severity with further treatment , and may involve skin and subcutaneous sites of known lymphoma .
Monitor patients with dermatologic reactions closely , and if severe , withhold or discontinue FOLOTYN [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome FOLOTYN can cause tumor lysis syndrome ( TLS ) .
Monitor patients who are at increased risk of TLS and treat promptly .
5 . 5 Hepatic Toxicity FOLOTYN can cause hepatic toxicity and liver function test abnormalities .
Persistent liver function test abnormalities may be indicators of hepatic toxicity and require dose modification or discontinuation .
Monitor liver function tests .
Omit dose until recovery , adjust or discontinue therapy based on the severity of the hepatic toxicity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 6 Risk of Increased Toxicity in the Presence of Impaired Renal Function Patients with moderate to severe renal function impairment may be at greater risk for increased exposure and toxicity .
Monitor patients for renal function and systemic toxicity and adjust dosing accordingly .
Serious adverse drug reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis and mucositis were reported in patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) undergoing dialysis who were administered FOLOTYN therapy .
Avoid FOLOTYN use in patients with end stage renal disease including those undergoing dialysis unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity FOLOTYN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
FOLOTYN was embryotoxic and fetotoxic in rats and rabbits .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • • Bone Marrow Suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Mucositis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Dermatologic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Tumor Lysis Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hepatic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions observed in patients with peripheral T - cell lymphoma ( PTCL ) treated with FOLOTYN were mucositis , thrombocytopenia , nausea , and fatigue .
Most common adverse reactions ( > 35 % ) are mucositis , thrombocytopenia , nausea , and fatigue .
Most common serious adverse reactions are pyrexia , mucositis , sepsis , febrile neutropenia , dehydration , dyspnea , and thrombocytopenia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allos Therapeutics , Inc at 1 - 888 - ALLOS88 ( 1 - 888 - 255 - 6788 ) or www . FOLOTYN . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of FOLOTYN was evaluated in 111 PTCL patients in a single - arm clinical study in which patients received a starting dose of 30 mg / m2 once weekly for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles .
The median duration of treatment was 70 days ( range 1 - 540 days ) .
Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Table 4 summarizes the most frequent adverse reactions , regardless of causality , using the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI CTCAE , version 3 . 0 ) .
Table 4 Adverse Reactions Occurring in PTCL Patients ( Incidence ≥ 10 % of patients ) N = 111 Total Grade 3 Grade 4 Preferred Term N % N % N % Any Adverse Event 111 100 48 43 34 31 Mucositisa 78 70 19 17 4 4 Thrombocytopeniab 45 41 15 14 21 19 b Nausea 44 40 4 4 0 0 Fatigue 40 36 5 5 2 2 Anemia 38 34 17 15 2 2 Constipation 37 33 0 0 0 0 Pyrexia 36 32 1 1 1 1 Edema 33 30 1 1 0 0 Cough 31 28 1 1 0 0 Epistaxis 29 26 0 0 0 0 Vomiting 28 25 2 2 0 0 Neutropenia 27 24 14 13 8 7 Diarrhea 23 21 2 2 0 0 Dyspnea 21 19 8 7 0 0 Anorexia 17 15 3 3 0 0 Hypokalemia 17 15 4 4 1 1 Rash 17 15 0 0 0 0 Pruritus 16 14 2 2 0 0 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 15 14 1 1 0 0 Liver function test abnormalc 14 13 6 5 0 0 Abdominal pain 13 12 4 4 0 0 Pain in extremity 13 12 0 0 0 0 Back pain 12 11 3 3 0 0 Leukopenia 12 11 3 3 4 4 Night sweats 12 11 0 0 0 0 Asthenia 11 10 1 1 0 0 Tachycardia 11 10 0 0 0 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 11 10 1 1 0 0 cAlanine aminotransferase , aspartate aminotransferase , and transaminases increased Serious Adverse Events Forty - four percent of patients ( n = 49 ) experienced a serious adverse event while on study or within 30 days after their last dose of FOLOTYN .
The most common serious adverse events ( > 3 % ) , regardless of causality , were pyrexia , mucositis , sepsis , febrile neutropenia , dehydration , dyspnea , and thrombocytopenia .
One death from cardiopulmonary arrest in a patient with mucositis and febrile neutropenia was reported in this trial .
Deaths from mucositis , febrile neutropenia , sepsis , and pancytopenia occurred in 1 . 2 % of patients treated on all FOLOTYN trials at doses ranging from 30 to 325 mg / m2 .
Discontinuations Twenty - three percent of patients ( n = 25 ) discontinued treatment with FOLOTYN due to adverse reactions .
The adverse reactions reported most frequently as the reason for discontinuation of treatment were mucositis ( 6 % , n = 7 ) and thrombocytopenia ( 5 % , n = 5 ) .
Dose Modifications The target dose of FOLOTYN was 30 mg / m2 once weekly for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles .
The majority of patients ( 69 % , n = 77 ) remained at the target dose for the duration of treatment .
Overall , 85 % of scheduled doses were administered .
6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Dermatologic Reactions Toxic epidermal necrolysis , sometimes fatal , has been reported during post - marketing use of FOLOTYN .
Fatal cases have been reported following the first dose of FOLOTYN , including when a reduced dose is given , and have been reported in patients with end - stage renal disease undergoing dialysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal clinical assessments of pharmacokinetic drug - drug interactions between FOLOTYN and other drugs have been conducted .
The effect of co - administration of the uricosuric drug probenecid ( an inhibitor of multiple transporter systems including the multidrug resistance - associated protein 2 ( MRP2 ) efflux transporter ) on pralatrexate pharmacokinetics was investigated in a Phase 1 clinical study .
Co - administration of increasing doses of probenecid resulted in delayed clearance of pralatrexate and a commensurate increase in exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
When administering FOLOTYN to patients receiving probenecid or other drugs that may affect relevant transporter systems ( eg , NSAIDs ) , monitor patients closely for signs of systemic toxicity due to increased drug exposure .
• • Co - administration with probenecid or other drugs that may affect relevant transporter systems ( eg , NSAIDs ) requires close monitoring for signs of systemic toxicity .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Women should be advised against breastfeeding while being treated with FOLOTYN .
( 8 . 3 ) • • Dose is reduced for patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) ( 2 . 1 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Embryo - Fetal Toxicity FOLOTYN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Pralatrexate was embryotoxic and fetotoxic in rats at IV doses of 0 . 06 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 36 mg / m2 / day or about 1 . 2 % of the clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) given on gestation days 7 through 20 .
Treatment with pralatrexate caused a dose - dependent decrease in fetal viability manifested as an increase in late , early , and total resorptions .
There was also a dose - dependent increase in post - implantation loss .
In rabbits , IV doses of 0 . 03 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 36 mg / m2 / day ) or greater given on gestation days 8 through 21 also caused abortion and fetal lethality .
This toxicity manifested as early and total resorptions , post - implantation loss , and a decrease in the total number of live fetuses .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether pralatrexate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from this drug , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue FOLOTYN , taking into account the importance of FOLOTYN to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Pediatric patients were not included in clinical studies with FOLOTYN .
The safety and effectiveness of FOLOTYN in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the PTCL efficacy study , 36 % of patients ( n = 40 ) were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in efficacy and safety were observed in patients based on age ( < 65 years compared with ≥ 65 years ) .
Due to the contribution of renal excretion to overall clearance of pralatrexate ( approximately 34 % ) , age - related decline in renal function may lead to a reduction in clearance and a commensurate increase in plasma exposure .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Since elderly patients may be at higher risk , monitor more closely .
Omit dose and subsequently adjust or discontinue therapy for exposure related toxicity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The safety , efficacy and pharmacokinetics of FOLOTYN have not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment .
Patients with the following laboratory values were excluded from the pralatrexate lymphoma clinical trials : total bilirubin > 1 . 5 mg / dL ; aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) or alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) > 2 . 5 × upper limit of normal ( ULN ) ; and AST or ALT > 5 × ULN if documented hepatic involvement with lymphoma .
Treatment with FOLOTYN can cause hepatic toxicity and liver function test abnormalities [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the recommended dose of FOLOTYN is 15 mg / m2 .
For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment , dose reduction is not necessary .
Serious adverse drug reactions , including TEN and mucositis have been reported in patients with ESRD undergoing dialysis .
Monitor patients for renal function and for systemic toxicity due to increased drug exposure and adjust dosing accordingly .
Avoid the use of FOLOTYN in patients with end stage renal disease undergoing dialysis unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage of FOLOTYN .
If an overdose occurs , general supportive measures should be instituted as deemed necessary by the treating physician .
Based on FOLOTYN ' s mechanism of action , consider the prompt administration of leucovorin .
11 DESCRIPTION FOLOTYN ( pralatrexate injection ) contains pralatrexate , which is an antineoplastic folate analog .
Pralatrexate has the chemical name ( 2 S ) - 2 - [ [ 4 - [ ( 1 RS ) - 1 - [ ( 2 , 4 - diaminopteridin - 6 - yl ) methyl ] but - 3 - ynyl ] benzoyl ] amino ] pentanedioic acid .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralatrexate is a 1 : 1 racemic mixture of S - and R - diastereomers at the C10 position ( indicated with * ) .
The molecular formula is C23H23N7O5 and the molecular weight is 477 . 48 g / mol .
Pralatrexate is an off - white to yellow solid .
It is soluble in aqueous solutions at pH 6 . 5 or higher .
Pralatrexate is practically insoluble in chloroform and ethanol .
The pKa values are 3 . 25 , 4 . 76 , and 6 . 17 .
FOLOTYN is supplied as a preservative - free , sterile , isotonic , non - pyrogenic clear yellow aqueous parenteral solution contained in a single - dose clear glass vial ( Type I ) for intravenous administration .
Each 1 mL of solution contains 20 mg of pralatrexate , sufficient sodium chloride to achieve an isotonic ( 280 - 300 mOsm ) solution , and sufficient sodium hydroxide , and hydrochloric acid if needed , to adjust and maintain the pH at 7 . 5 - 8 . 5 .
FOLOTYN is supplied as either 20 mg ( 1 mL ) or 40 mg ( 2 mL ) single - dose vials at a concentration of 20 mg / mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Pralatrexate is a folate analog metabolic inhibitor that competitively inhibits dihydrofolate reductase .
It is also a competitive inhibitor for polyglutamylation by the enzyme folylpolyglutamyl synthetase .
This inhibition results in the depletion of thymidine and other biological molecules the synthesis of which depends on single carbon transfer .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetics of pralatrexate administered as a single agent at a dose of 30 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous push over 3 - 5 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles have been evaluated in 10 patients with PTCL .
The total systemic clearance of pralatrexate diastereomers was 417 mL / min ( S - diastereomer ) and 191 mL / min ( R - diastereomer ) .
The terminal elimination half - life of pralatrexate was 12 - 18 hours ( coefficient of variance [ CV ] = 62 - 120 % ) .
Pralatrexate total systemic exposure ( AUC ) and maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) increased proportionally with dose ( dose range 30 - 325 mg / m2 , including pharmacokinetics data from high - dose solid tumor clinical studies ) .
The pharmacokinetics of pralatrexate did not change significantly over multiple treatment cycles , and no accumulation of pralatrexate was observed .
Distribution Pralatrexate diastereomers showed a steady - state volume of distribution of 105 L ( S - diastereomer ) and 37 L ( R - diastereomer ) .
In vitro studies indicate that pralatrexate is approximately 67 % bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism In vitro studies using human hepatocytes , liver microsomes and S9 fractions , and recombinant human CYP450 isozymes showed that pralatrexate is not significantly metabolized by the phase I hepatic CYP450 isozymes or phase II hepatic glucuronidases .
Excretion The mean fraction of unchanged pralatrexate diastereomers excreted in urine following a pralatrexate dose of 30 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous push over 3 ‑ 5 minutes was 31 % ( S ‑ diastereomer ) ( CV = 47 % ) and 38 % ( R - diastereomer ) ( CV = 45 % ) , respectively .
In a mass balance study conducted in patients with advanced cancer , an average of 39 % ( CV = 28 % ) of the administered radiolabeled pralatrexate dose was excreted in urine as parent , racemic pralatrexate ( fe ) .
An average of 34 % ( CV = 88 % ) of the administered dose was recovered in feces as total radiation ( feTR ) which included both parent pralatrexate and / or any metabolites .
An average of 10 % ( CV = 95 % ) of total dose was exhaled as total radioactivity over 24 hours .
Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations Renal Impairment In patients with cancer without renal impairment , approximately 34 % of pralatrexate was excreted unchanged into urine following a single dose of 30 mg / m2 administered as an intravenous push over 3 - 5 minutes .
The pharmacokinetics of FOLOTYN was studied in patients with varying degrees of renal impairment .
In patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , the FOLOTYN dose was 15 mg / m2 .
Patients with normal renal clearance , mild renal impairment , and moderate renal impairment were all dosed with 30 mg / m2 .
Mean exposures of the pralatrexate S - diastereomer and R - diastereomer were comparable across cohorts .
The mean fraction of the administered dose excreted as unchanged diastereomers in urine ( fe ) decreased with declining renal function .
The non - renal clearance and volume of distribution of pralatrexate were unaffected by renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Pralatrexate has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
Gender There was no significant effect of gender on pharmacokinetics .
Drug Interactions In vitro studies indicated that pralatrexate does not induce or inhibit the activity of CYP450 isozymes at concentrations of pralatrexate that can be reasonably expected clinically .
In vitro , pralatrexate is a substrate for the breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , MRP2 , multidrug resistance - associated protein 3 ( MRP3 ) , and organic anion transport protein 1B3 ( OATP1B3 ) transporter systems at concentrations of pralatrexate that can be reasonably expected clinically .
Pralatrexate is not a substrate of the P glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , organic anion transport protein 1B1 ( OATP1B1 ) , organic cation transporter 2 ( OCT2 ) , organic anion transporter 1 ( OAT1 ) , and organic anion transporter 3 ( OAT3 ) transporter systems .
In vitro , pralatrexate inhibits MRP2 and MRP3 transporter systems ( [ I ] / IC50 > 0 . 1 ) at concentrations of pralatrexate that can be reasonably expected clinically .
MRP3 is a transporter that may affect the transport of etoposide and teniposide .
In vitro , pralatrexate did not significantly inhibit the P - gp , BCRP , OCT2 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 transporter systems at concentrations of pralatrexate that can be reasonably expected clinically .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with pralatrexate .
Mutagenesis Pralatrexate did not cause mutations in the Ames test or the Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay .
Nevertheless , these tests do not reliably predict genotoxicity for this class of compounds .
Pralatrexate did not cause mutations in the mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility No fertility studies have been performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Peripheral T - cell Lymphoma ( PTCL ) The safety and efficacy of FOLOTYN was evaluated in an open - label , single - arm , multi - center , international trial that enrolled 115 patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL .
One hundred and eleven patients were treated with FOLOTYN at 30 mg / m2 once weekly by IV push over 3 - 5 minutes for 6 weeks in 7 - week cycles until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Of the 111 patients treated , 109 patients were evaluable for efficacy .
Evaluable patients had histologically confirmed PTCL by independent central review using the Revised European American Lymphoma ( REAL ) World Health Organization ( WHO ) disease classification , and relapsed or refractory disease after at least one prior treatment .
The primary efficacy endpoint was overall response rate ( complete response , complete response unconfirmed , and partial response ) as assessed by International Workshop Criteria ( IWC ) .
The key secondary efficacy endpoint was duration of response .
Response assessments were scheduled at the end of cycle 1 and then every other cycle ( every 14 weeks ) .
Duration of response was measured from the first day of documented response to disease progression or death .
Response and disease progression were evaluated by independent central review using the IWC .
The median age of treated patients was 59 . 0 years ( range 21 - 85 ) ; 68 % were male and 32 % were female .
Most patients were White ( 72 % ) and other racial origins included : Black ( 13 % ) , Hispanic ( 8 % ) , Asian ( 5 % ) , other and unknown ( < 1 % each ) .
Patients had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status at study entry of 0 ( 39 % ) , 1 ( 44 % ) , or 2 ( 17 % ) .
The median time from initial diagnosis to study entry was 15 . 6 months ( range 0 . 8 – 322 . 3 ) .
The median number of prior systemic therapies was 3 ( range 1 - 12 ) .
Approximately one - fourth of patients ( 24 % , n = 27 ) did not have evidence of response to any previous therapy .
Approximately two - thirds of patients ( 63 % , n = 70 ) did not have evidence of response to their most recent prior therapy before entering the study .
In all evaluable patients ( n = 109 ) treated with FOLOTYN , the response rate , as determined by independent central review by IWC , was 27 % ( n = 29 ) ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 Response Analysis per Independent Central Review ( IWC ) Evaluable Patients ( N = 109 ) N ( % ) 95 % CI Median Duration of Response Range of Duration of Response Overall Response CR + CRu + PR 29 ( 27 ) 19 , 36 287 days ( 9 . 4 months ) 1 - 503 days CR / CRu 9 ( 8 ) PR 20 ( 18 ) Responses ≥ 14 weeks CR + CRu + PR 13 ( 12 ) 7 , 20 Not Reached 98 - 503 days CR / CRu 7 ( 6 ) PR 6 ( 6 ) CR = Complete Response , CRu = Complete Response unconfirmed , PR = Partial Response The initial response assessment was scheduled at the end of cycle 1 .
Of the responders , 66 % responded within cycle 1 .
The median time to first response was 45 days ( range 37 - 349 days ) .
15 REFERENCES • 1 .
Preventing Occupational Exposures to Antineoplastic and Other Hazardous Drugs in Health Care Settings .
NIOSH Alert 2004 - 165 .
• 2 .
OSHA Technical Manual , TED 1 - 0 . 15 A , Section VI : Chapter 2 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA , 1999 .
http : / / www . osha . gov / dts / osta / o tm / otm _ vi / otm _ vi _ 2 .
html • 3 .
American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2006 ; 63 : 1172 - 1193 .
• 4 .
Polovich , M . , White , J . M . , & Kelleher , L . O . ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice ( 2 nd .
ed . )
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FOLOTYN is available in single - dose clear glass vials containing pralatrexate at a concentration of 20 mg / mL as a preservative - free , sterile , clear yellow solution individually packaged for intravenous use in the following presentations : NDC 48818 - 001 - 01 : 20 mg of pralatrexate in 1 mL solution in a vial ( 20 mg / 1 mL ) NDC 48818 - 001 - 02 : 40 mg of pralatrexate in 2 mL solution in a vial ( 40 mg / 2 mL ) Vials must be stored refrigerated at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Cold Temperature ) in original carton to protect from light .
Handle and dispose of FOLOTYN according to guidelines issued for cytotoxic drugs , including the use of gloves and other protective clothing to prevent skin contact [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
Each vial of FOLOTYN is intended for single use only .
Any unused drug remaining after injection must be discarded .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Patients should be instructed to read the Patient Information carefully .
17 . 1 Need for Folic Acid and Vitamin B12 Advise patients treated with FOLOTYN to take folic acid and vitamin B12 as a prophylactic measure to reduce the risk of possible side effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Low Blood Cell Counts Inform patients of the risk of low blood cell counts and to immediately contact their physician should any signs of infection develop , including fever .
Inform patients to contact their physician if bleeding or symptoms of anemia occur .
17 . 3 Mucositis Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of mucositis .
Instruct patients on ways to reduce the risk of its development , and on ways to maintain nutrition and control discomfort from mucositis if it occurs .
17 . 4 Fatal Dermatologic Reactions Advise patients about the risks for and the signs and symptoms of dermatologic reactions .
Instruct patients to immediately notify their physician if any skin reactions occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 5 Tumor Lysis Syndrome Inform patients about the risk of and the signs and symptoms of tumor lysis syndrome .
Patients should be instructed to notify their physician if they experience these symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 6 Concomitant Medications Patients should be instructed to inform their physician if they are taking any concomitant medications including prescription drugs ( such as trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole ) and nonprescription drugs ( such as nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
17 . 7 Pregnancy / Nursing Patients should be instructed to tell their physician if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant due to the risk of fetal harm .
Patients should be instructed to tell their physician if they are nursing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . and its wholly - owned subsidiary Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
Westminster , CO 80021 1 - 888 - ALLOS88 ( 1 - 888 - 255 - 6788 ) FOLOTYN , ALLOS , and the mobius triangle symbol are all registered trademarks of Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
U . S . Patents : 6 , 028 , 071 , 7 , 622 , 470 and 8 , 299 , 078 Rev . November 2016 © 2016 Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . and its wholly - owned subsidiary Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information FOLOTYN ® ( FOH - loh - tin ) ( pralatrexate injection ) Read the Patient Information that comes with FOLOTYN before you start treatment and each time you get treated with FOLOTYN .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about FOLOTYN .
What is FOLOTYN ?
FOLOTYN is a prescription anti - cancer ( chemotherapy ) medicine .
FOLOTYN is used to treat people with a type of cancer called Peripheral T - cell Lymphoma ( PTCL ) that does not go away , gets worse , or comes back after use of another cancer treatment .
What should I tell my doctor before receiving FOLOTYN ?
Before you receive FOLOTYN , tell your doctor if you : • • have liver problems .
• • have kidney problems .
• • have any other medical conditions .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
FOLOTYN can harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to prevent pregnancy while taking FOLOTYN .
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking FOLOTYN .
• • are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if FOLOTYN passes into breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take FOLOTYN or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby while you are being treated with FOLOTYN .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some medicines may affect how FOLOTYN works , and FOLOTYN may affect how other medicines work .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • • sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim ( Bactrim ® , Septra ® , Septra DS , Sulfatrim Pediatric , Sulfamethoprim , Sulfamethoprim - DS ) • • non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • • probenecid ( Probalan , Col - Probenecid ) Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor or pharmacist each time you start a new medicine .
How will I receive FOLOTYN ?
• • FOLOTYN will be given to you as directed by your doctor , as an intravenous ( IV ) injection into your vein over 3 to 5 minutes .
• • FOLOTYN is usually given in cycles , one time each week for 6 weeks , with no treatment on the 7 th week .
Treatment with FOLOTYN may be continued as long as it is helpful to you .
To lower your chances of harmful side effects , it is important that you take folic acid and vitamin B12 during your treatment with FOLOTYN .
Your doctor will give you specific instructions for vitamin supplementation .
• • You will take folic acid by mouth for 10 days before your first dose of FOLOTYN .
Do not take more or less folic acid than your doctor tells you to take .
Continue taking folic acid every day until your doctor tells you to stop .
• • Your doctor will give you a vitamin B12 injection into your muscle ( intramuscular ) before your first dose of FOLOTYN and about every 8 to 10 weeks during treatment with FOLOTYN .
You should have regular blood tests before and during your treatment with FOLOTYN .
Your doctor may change your dose of FOLOTYN or delay treatment based on the results of your blood tests and on your general condition .
What are the possible side effects of FOLOTYN ?
FOLOTYN may cause serious side effects , including : • • Low Blood Cell Counts : FOLOTYN can affect your bone marrow and cause you to have low blood cell counts .
Your doctor will do blood tests as needed to check your blood cell counts .
• • Low Platelet Count ( thrombocytopenia ) : Tell your doctor right away if you have any unusual bleeding , such as nosebleeds , or bruising under your skin .
• • Low White Blood Cell Count ( neutropenia ) : A low white blood cell count can cause you to get infections , which may be serious .
Serious illness or death can happen if an infection is not treated right away when white blood cell counts are very low .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms of an infection : • • fever • • chills • • cough • • shortness of breath • • pain or burning on urination • • Low Red Blood Cell Count ( anemia ) : Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms of anemia during treatment with FOLOTYN : • • feeling weak , tired , or you get tired easily • • you look pale • • you feel short of breath • • Redness and sores of the mucous membrane lining of the mouth , lips , throat , digestive tract , and genitals ( mucositis ) .
Discomfort or pain due to mucositis may happen as early as a few days after treatment with FOLOTYN .
Your doctor should tell you about ways to reduce your risk of getting mucositis , and how to maintain nutrition and control the discomfort from mucositis .
• • Severe skin reactions .
Severe skin reactions may happen after treatment with FOLOTYN , especially if you have lymphoma in or under your skin .
If your skin reactions are severe , they may lead to serious illness or death .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of the following skin reactions : • • rash • • peeling and loss of skin • • sores • • blisters • • Tumor Lysis Syndrome ( TLS ) .
FOLOTYN can cause the fast breakdown of certain types of cancer cells .
This can lead to TLS .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check you for TLS and treat you for TLS if needed .
• • Harm to an unborn baby .
Females should avoid becoming pregnant while being treated with FOLOTYN .
Talk to your doctor about how to avoid pregnancy while taking FOLOTYN .
• • Fever .
Fever is often one of the most common and earliest signs of infection .
Follow your doctor ' s instructions about how often to take your temperature , especially during the days after treatment with FOLOTYN .
If you have a fever , tell your doctor or nurse right away .
• • Loss of too much fluid from the body ( dehydration ) .
If you feel tired and weak this could be a sign of dehydration .
Follow your doctor ' s instructions for what to do to help prevent or treat dehydration .
• • Shortness of breath .
Tell your doctor if this is a problem for you .
Common side effects of FOLOTYN include : • • nausea • • vomiting • • tiredness • • constipation • • swelling • • cough • • nosebleed • • diarrhea Tell your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of FOLOTYN .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You can report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about FOLOTYN Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about FOLOTYN .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about FOLOTYN that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . FOLOTYN . com or call 1 - 888 - 255 - 6788 .
What are the ingredients in FOLOTYN ?
Active ingredient : pralatrexate Inactive ingredients : sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide , and hydrochloric acid What is PTCL ?
PTCL is a rare type of non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma , a cancer of the lymphatic system .
It happens when a type of T - cell ( a kind of white blood cell ) grows too much .
PTCL may be found in different parts of the body , such as the lymph nodes , skin , bone marrow , liver , or spleen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . and its wholly - owned subsidiary Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
Westminster , CO 80021 Issued : May 2010 Revised : November 2016 [ MULTIMEDIA ] FOLOTYN , ALLOS , the mobius triangle symbol , and the flower symbol are all registered trademarks of Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
© 2016 Spectrum Pharmaceuticals , Inc . and its wholly - owned subsidiary Allos Therapeutics , Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON - FOLOTYN 20 mg / 1 mL Vial NDC 48818 - 001 - 01 FOLOTYN ® ( pralatrexate injection ) 20 mg / mL For intravenous use Rx only 1 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON - FOLOTYN 40 mg / 2 mL Vial NDC 48818 - 001 - 02 FOLOTYN ® ( pralatrexate injection ) 40 mg / 2 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) For intravenous use Rx only 2 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] VIAL – FOLOTYN 20 mg / 1 ml NDC 48818 - 001 - 01 FOLOTYN ® ( pralatrexate injection ) 20 mg / mL Rx only 1 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] VIAL – FOLOTYN 40 mg / 2 ml NDC 48818 - 001 - 02 FOLOTYN ® ( pralatrexate injection ) 40 mg / 2 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) Rx only 2 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
