DESCRIPTION Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing Olopatadine , a relatively selective H 1 - receptor antagonist and inhibitor of histamine release from the mast cell for topical administration to the eyes .
Olopatadine Hydrochloride is a white , crystalline , water - soluble powder with a molecular weight of 373 . 88 .
The chemical structure is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : 11 - [ ( Z ) - 3 - ( Dimethylamino ) propylidene ] - 6 - 11 dihydrodibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - 2 - acetic acid hydrochloride Each mL of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % contains : Active : 1 . 11 mg Olopatadine Hydrochloride equivalent to 1 mg Olopatadine .
Inactives : Dibasic Sodium Phosphate ; Sodium Chloride ; Hydrochloric Acid / Sodium Hydroxide ( adjust pH ) ; and Water for Injection .
Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
It has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Olopatadine is an inhibitor of the release of histamine from the mast cell and a relatively selective histamine H 1 - antagonist that inhibits the in vivo and in vitro type 1 immediate hypersensitivity reaction including inhibition of histamine induced effects on human conjunctival epithelial cells .
Olopatadine is devoid of effects on alpha - adrenergic , dopamine and muscarinic type 1 and 2 receptors .
Following topical ocular administration in man , Olopatadine was shown to have low systemic exposure .
Two studies in normal volunteers ( totaling 24 subjects ) dosed bilaterally with olopatadine 0 . 15 % ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally below the quantitation limit of the assay ( < 0 . 5 ng / mL ) .
Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged from 0 . 5 to 1 . 3 ng / mL .
The half - life in plasma was approximately 3 hours , and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion .
Approximately 60 to 70 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as parent drug .
Two metabolites , the mono - desmethyl and the N - oxide , were detected at low concentrations in the urine .
Results from an environmental study demonstrated that Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % was effective in the treatment of the signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis when dosed twice daily for up to 6 weeks .
Results from conjunctival antigen challenge studies demonstrated that Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % , when subjects were challenged with antigen both initially and up to 8 hours after dosing , was significantly more effective than its vehicle in preventing ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity to Olopatadine Hydrochloride or any components of Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % .
WARNINGS Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is for topical use only and not for injection or oral use .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients : To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation .
The preservative in Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % before they insert their contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Olopatadine administered orally was not carcinogenic in mice and rats in doses up to 500 mg / kg / day and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Based on a 40 μL drop size , these doses were 78 , 125 and 31 , 250 times higher than the maximum recommended ocular human dose ( MROHD ) .
No mutagenic potential was observed when olopatadine was tested in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test , an in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration assay or an in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Olopatadine administered to male and female rats at oral doses of 62 , 500 times MROHD level resulted in a slight decrease in the fertility index and reduced implantation rate ; no effects on reproductive function were observed at doses of 7 , 800 times the maximum recommended ocular human use level .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Olopatadine was found not to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
However , rats treated at 600 mg / kg / day , or 93 , 750 times the MROHD and rabbits treated at 400 mg / kg / day , or 62 , 500 times the MROHD , during organogenesis showed a decrease in live fetuses .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human responses , this drug should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Olopatadine has been identified in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration .
It is not known whether topical ocular administration could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in the human breast milk .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headaches have been reported at an incidence of 7 % .
The following adverse experiences have been reported in less than 5 % of patients : asthenia , blurred vision , burning or stinging , cold syndrome , dry eye , foreign body sensation , hyperemia , hypersensitivity , keratitis , lid edema , nausea , pharyngitis , pruritus , rhinitis , sinusitis , and taste perversion .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye two times per day at an interval of 6 to 8 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 1 % is supplied in a 10 mL white , low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle with a dropper tip , and a white polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC : 60429 - 957 - 05 5 mL in 10 mL bottle STORAGE Store at 4 ° to 25 ° C ( 39 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Rx only AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 OLPA0N Rev . 01 / 17 Marketed / Packaged by : GSMS , Inc .
Camarillo , CA 93012 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 60429 - 957 - 05 Olopatadine HCl Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 1 % FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY Rx only 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 60429 - 957 - 05 Olopatadine HCl Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 1 % FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY 5 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
