Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours WarningsAsk a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Inactive Ingredient None Tamper evident Packaging : Caution : This package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
Directions for use ( fertilizer ) Or for use as a fertilizer apply at the following rates : Lawns : Apply at a rate of 1 / 2 pound per one thousand square feet of lawn .
Garden Plants and Shrubbery : Sprinkle 2 tablespoons around the base of each plant .
For use as a plant food supplement apply at the following rates : Tomatoes , roses One teaspoon per foot plant height every two weeks .
Evergreens , Azaleas , Rhododendrons .
Apply one tablespoon per nine sq .
Ft . ( 3 ' x 3 ' ) over the root zone every two to four weeks .
Trees Apply two tablespoons per nine sq ft ( 3 ' x 3 ' ) over root zone once every four months Garden startup Sprinkle approximately one cup per 100 sq . ft .
( 10 ' x 10 ' ) and mix into soil prior to planting .
Houseplants Mix one teaspoon per gallon of water and feed to plants every one to four weeks For quicker results water plants after applying this product .
Guaranteed Analysis Magnesium ( Mg ) ......................................... 9 . 8 % 9 . 8 % Soluble Magnesium ( Mg ) Sulfur ( S ) ...................................................... 12 . 9 % 12 . 9 % Combined Sulfur ( S ) Derived from : magnesium sulfate F - 1253 Information regarding the contents and levels of metals in this product is available on the Internet at : http .
/ / agr . wa . gov GUARANTEED BY : Vi - Jon , Inc 8515 Page Ave . St . Louis , MO 63114 Proudly Distributed by Western Family Foods , Inc PO Box 4507 Portland , OR 97208 principal display panel RESEALABLE Helps Keep Moisture Out WESTERN FAMILY Epsom Salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P • Soak Solution - for minor sprains and bruises • Saline Laxative • Plant Nutrient Net Wt 1 LB ( 454 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
