1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of itching associated with signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis .
BEPREVE ™ is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of BEPREVE ™ into the affected eye ( s ) twice a day ( BID ) .
Instill one drop into the affected eye ( s ) twice a day ( BID ) .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical ophthalmic solution containing bepotastine besilate 1 . 5 % .
Solution containing bepotastine besilate , 1 . 5 % .
( 3 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • To minimize the risk of contamination , do not touch dropper tip to any surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) • BEPREVE ™ should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of BEPREVE ™ .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Contamination of Tip and Solution To minimize contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Contact Lens Use Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
BEPREVE ™ should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
BEPREVE ™ should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of BEPREVE ™ .
The preservative in BEPREVE ™ , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of BEPREVE ™ .
5 . 3 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only BEPREVE ™ is for topical ophthalmic use only .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reported adverse reaction occurring in approximately 25 % of subjects was a mild taste following instillation .
Other adverse reactions occurring in 2 - 5 % of subjects were eye irritation , headache , and nasopharyngitis .
The most common adverse reaction occurring in approximately 25 % of patients was a mild taste following instillation .
Other adverse reactions which occurred in 2 - 5 % of subjects were eye irritation , headache , and nasopharyngitis .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ISTA Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 788 - 2020 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : Teratogenicity studies have been performed in animals .
Bepotastine besilate was not found to be teratogenic in rats during organogenesis and fetal development at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( representing a systemic concentration approximately 3 , 300 times that anticipated for topical ocular use in humans ) , but did show some potential for causing skeletal abnormalities at 1 , 000 mg / kg / day .
There were no teratogenic effects seen in rabbits at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day given during organogenesis and fetal development ( > 13 , 000 times the dose in humans on a mg / kg basis ) .
Evidence of infertility was seen in rats given oral bepotastine besilate 1 , 000 mg / kg / day however , no evidence of infertility was observed in rats given 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 , 300 times the topical ocular use in humans ) .
The concentration of radiolabeled bepotastine besilate was similar in fetal liver and maternal blood plasma following a single 3 mg / kg oral dose .
The concentration in other fetal tissues was one - third to one - tenth the concentration in maternal blood plasma .
An increase in stillborns and decreased growth and development were observed in pups born from rats given oral doses of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day during perinatal and lactation periods .
There were no observed effects in rats treated with 100 mg / kg / day .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of bepotastine besilate in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Following a single 3 mg / kg oral dose of radiolabeled bepotastine besilate to nursing rats 11 days after delivery , the maximum concentration of radioactivity in milk was 0 . 40 μg eq / mL 1 hour after administration ; at 48 hours after administration the concentration was below detection limits .
The milk concentration was higher than the maternal blood plasma concentration at each time of measurement .
It is not known if bepotastine besilate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % have not been established in pediatric patients under 2 years of age .
Efficacy in pediatric patients under 10 years of age was extrapolated from clinical trials conducted in pediatric patients greater than 10 years of age and from adults .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall difference in safety or effectiveness has been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % is a sterile , topically administered drug for ophthalmic use .
Each mL of BEPREVE ™ contains 15 mg bepotastine besilate .
Bepotastine besilate is designated chemically as ( + ) - 4 - [ [ ( S ) - p - chloro - alpha - 2 - pyridylbenzyl ] oxy ] - 1 - piperidine butyric acid monobenzenesulfonate .
The chemical structure for bepotastine besilate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bepotastine besilate is a white or pale yellowish crystalline powder .
The molecular weight of bepotastine besilate is 547 . 06 daltons .
BEPREVE ™ ophthalmic solution is supplied as a sterile , aqueous 1 . 5 % solution , with a pH of 6 . 8 .
The osmolality of BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % is approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
Each mL of BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % contains : Active : Bepotastine besilate 15 mg ( equivalent to 10 . 7 mg bepotastine ) Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 005 % Inactives : monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , and water for injection , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bepotastine is a topically active , direct H1 - receptor antagonist and an inhibitor of the release of histamine from mast cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : The extent of systemic exposure to bepotastine following topical ophthalmic administration of bepotastine besilate 1 % and 1 . 5 % ophthalmic solutions was evaluated in 12 healthy adults .
Following one drop of 1 % or 1 . 5 % bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution to both eyes four time daily ( QID ) for seven days , bepotastine plasma concentrations peaked at approximately one to two hours post - instillation .
Maximum plasma concentration for the 1 % and 1 . 5 % strengths were 5 . 1 ± 2 . 5 ng / mL and 7 . 3 ± 1 . 9 ng / mL , respectively .
Plasma concentration at 24 hours post - instillation were below the quantifiable limit ( 2 ng / mL ) in 11 / 12 subjects in the two dose groups .
Dtistribution : The extent of protein binding of bepotastine is approximately 55 % and independent of bepotastine concentration .
Metabolism : In vitro metabolism studies with human liver microsomes demonstrated that bepotastine is minimally metabolized by CYP450 isozymes .
In vitro studies demonstrated that bepotastine besilate does not inhibit the metabolism of various cytochrome P450 substrate via inhibition of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
The effect of bepotastine besilate on the metabolism of substrates of CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2D6 was not studied .
Bepotastine besilate has a low potential for drug interaction via inhibition of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
Excretion : The main route of elimination of bepotastine besilate is urinary excretion ( with approximately 75 - 90 % excreted unchanged in urine ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term dietary studies in mice and rats were conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bepotastine besilate .
Bepotastine besilate did not significantly induce neoplasms in mice receiving a nominal dose of up to 200 mg / kg / day for 21 months or rats receiving a nominal dose of up to 97 mg / kg / day for 24 months .
These dose levels represent systemic exposures approximating 350 and 200 times that achieved with human topical ocular use .
The no observable adverse effect levels for bepotastine besilate based on nominal dose levels in carcinogenicity tests were 18 . 7 to 19 . 9 mg / kg / day in mice and 9 . 6 to 9 . 8 mg / kg / day in rats ( representing exposure margins of approximately 60 and 20 times the systemic exposure anticipated for topical use in humans ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test , in CHO cells ( chromosome aberrations ) , in mouse hepatocytes ( unscheduled DNA synthesis ) , or in the mouse micronucleus test .
When oral bepotastine was administered to male and female rats at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day , there was a slight reduction in fertility index and surviving fetuses .
Infertility was not seen in rats given 200 mg / kg / day oral bepotastine besilate ( approximately 3 , 300 times the systemic concentration anticipated for topical ocular use in humans ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical efficacy was evaluated in 2 conjunctival allergen challenge ( CAC ) studies ( 237 patients ) .
BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % was more effective than its vehicle for relieving ocular itching induced by an ocular allergen challenge , both at a CAC 15 minutes post - dosing and a CAC 8 hours post dosing of BEPREVE ™ .
The safety of BEPREVE ™ was evaluated in a randomized clinical study of 861 subjects over a period of 6 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % is supplied in a white low density polyethylene plastic squeeze bottle with a white controlled dropper tip and a white polypropylene cap in the following size : 10 mL ( NDC 54868 - 6299 - 0 ) STORAGE Store at 15º – 25ºC ( 59º – 77ºF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only For topical ophthalmic administration only .
17 . 2 Sterility of Dropper Tip Patients should be advised to not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
17 . 3 Concomitant Use of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
Patients should be advised that BEPREVE ™ should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Patients should also be advised to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of BEPREVE ™ .
The preservative in BEPREVE ™ , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of BEPREVE ™ .
Manufactured for : ISTA Pharmaceuticals ® , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92618 By : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 Under license from : Senju Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Osaka , Japan 541 - 004 ® and ™ marks owned by ISTA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
U . S . Patents : 6 , 307 , 052 ; 6 , 780 , 877 © 2009 ISTA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Relabeling of additional barcode by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL BEPREVE ™ ( bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution ) 1 . 5 % Sterile 10 mL NDC 54868 - 6299 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] For topical application in the eye .
Store at 15 o - 25 oC ( 59 o - 77 oF ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
