Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v Use [ s ] Hair growth serum to help firming hair rootand balancing the head skin secretion , improve the scalpitching , remove the grease , clear the hair follicles topromote the hair growth , reduce the hair loss and brokenhair , give you a healthy hair looks .
Our HairGrowth Serumisdesignedtorevitalize , strenghthen , protect , andstimulate hair follicles .
Theformula strengthens thinningandweak hair resulting innoticeably thicker fuller andhealt hier hair .
Works perfect for the people who need to grow hair fast , have thinning hair , patternbaldness , brittle or weak hair , etc . This oil serum will reducehair damage and repair splitends KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children . lf swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
For adult external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away fromheat or flame .
Do not use · Pregnant women and children .
· on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , andmouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughlywith water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs . These may be signs of a serious condition .
· Put right amount of hair growth serum apply on the hairloss area or hair scalp , gentle to massage to help absorb .
· 1 - 2 times per day .
Using dropper , apply one ML ( few drops ) directiy ' onto scalpon the hairloss area . For bestresults , use twice daily on cleandry hair .
Use fingertips tomassage solution into skin / hairfor 2 - 3 minutes other information - Store between 15 - 30 ℃ ( 59 - 86 ℉ ) - Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ℃ ( 104 ℉ ) lnactive ingredients Water , Vitamin H ( Biotin ) , Pork Collagen , Panax Ginseng Berry Extract , CarthamusTinctorius ( Safflower ) Flower Extract , Frangula Alnus BarkExtract , Ligustrum Lucidum Fruit Extract , LigusticumChuanxiong Root Extract , Glycyrrhiza Uralensis ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Angelica Sinensis Root Extract , PlatycladusOrientalis , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Capsaicin .
Not lntendedfor use by pregnant , nursing women , any person under the age of 18 .
lf you are taking any medication , consult your doctor or health care professional before use .
Discontinue use immediately if you experience any adverse reactions .
Keep this product out of reach of childern .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
