Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % , Homosalate 5 . 5 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 4 . 0 % .
Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
May stain some fabrics .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal Directions • Shake well • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Isobutane , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Dimethicone , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Fragrance , Hydroxypropylcellulose , Mineral Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Panthenol , Water , Carica Papaya ( Papaya ) Fruit Extract , Mangifera Indica ( Mango ) Fruit Extract , Passiflora Incarnata Fruit Extract , Plumeria Acutifolia Flower Extract , Psidium Guajava Fruit Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - NO - UVRAY , Mon - Fri PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL HAWAIIAN Tropic Silk HYDRATION Clear Spray Sunscreen WEIGHTLESS Feels as if it ' s a barely on 30 BROAD SPECTRUM SPF30 12 HOUR Moisturization with UVA / UVB Protection Fast absorbing Water resistant ( 80 Minutes ) NET WT 60 Z .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
