Active Ingredients Purposes Camphor 1 . 2 % ................... Topical analgesic Menthol 5 . 7 % .....................
Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate 6 . 3 % .......
Topical analgesic Uses • temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • sprains • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises For external use only Allergy alert : If prone to allergic reaction from aspirin or salicylates , consult a doctor before use .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product • on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area .
When using this product • do not use otherwise than as directed • avoid contact with eyes , mucous membranes or rashes • do not bandage tightly • discontinue use at least 1 hour before a bath or shower • do not use immediately after a bath or shower Stop use and ask a doctor if • redness is present or irritation or rash develops • conditioin worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • clean and dry affected area • remove patch from film • apply to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily • do not wear patch for more than 4 hours • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor • store at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77ºF ) • avoid storing product in direct sunlight • protect product from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients glycerol rosinate , lanolin , natural latex rubber , petrolatum , polyisobutylene , zinc oxide Call 1 - 800 - 814 - 8028 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM ( PST ) Distributed By : UNITED EXCHANGE CORP .
Cypress , CA . 90630 USA Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
