Rx only WARNING Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks .
Hepatotoxicity Serious hepatotoxicity , including cases with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation has occurred with the use of oral ketoconazole .
Some patients had no obvious risk factors for liver disease .
Patients receiving this drug should be informed by the physician of the risk and should be closely monitored .
See WARNINGS section .
QT Prolongation and Drug Interactions Leading to QT Prolongation Co - administration of the following drugs with ketoconazole is contraindicated : dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , cisapride .
Ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs and may prolong QT intervals , sometimes resulting in life - threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes .
See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions sections .
DESCRIPTION Ketoconazole tablets USP is a synthetic broad - spectrum antifungal agent available in scored white tablets , each containing 200 mg ketoconazole base for oral administration .
Inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
Ketoconazole is cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 - [ 4 - [ [ 2 - ( 2 , 4 dichlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( 1 H - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxyl ] phenyl ] piperazine and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ketoconazole is a white to slightly beige , odorless powder , soluble in acids , with a molecular weight of 531 . 44 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Mean peak plasma levels of approximately 3 . 5 µg / mL are reached within 1 to 2 hours , following oral administration of a single 200 mg dose taken with a meal .
Subsequent plasma elimination is biphasic with a half - life of 2 hours during the first 10 hours and 8 hours thereafter .
Following absorption from the gastrointestinal tract , ketoconazole is converted into several inactive metabolites .
The major identified metabolic pathways are oxidation and degradation of the imidazole and piperazine rings , oxidative Odealkylation and aromatic hydroxylation .
About 13 % of the dose is excreted in the urine , of which 2 to 4 % is unchanged drug .
The major route of excretion is through the bile into the intestinal tract .
In vitro , the plasma protein binding is about 99 % mainly to the albumin fraction .
Only a negligible proportion of ketoconazole reaches the cerebrospinal fluid .
Ketoconazole is a weak dibasic agent and thus requires acidity for dissolution and absorption .
Electrocardiogram Pre - clinical electrophysiological studies have shown that ketoconazole inhibits the rapidly activating component of the cardiac delayed rectifier potassium current , prolongs the action potential duration , and may prolong the QTc interval .
Data from some clinical PK / PD studies and drug interaction studies suggest that oral dosing with ketoconazole at 200 mg twice daily for 3 to 7 days can result in an increase of the QTc interval : a mean maximum increase of about 6 to 12 msec was seen at ketoconazole peak plasma concentrations about 1 to 4 hours after ketoconazole administration .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ketoconazole blocks the synthesis of ergosterol , a key component of the fungal cell membrane , through the inhibition of cytochrome P - 450 dependent enzyme lanosterol 14α - demethylase responsible for the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol in the fungal cell membrane .
This results in an accumulation of methylated sterol precursors and a depletion of ergosterol within the cell membrane thus weakening the structure and function of the fungal cell membrane .
Activity In Vitro & In Vivo Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg are active against clinical infections with Blastomyces dermatitidis , Coccidioides immitis , Histoplasma capsulatum , Paracoccidioides brasiliensis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks .
Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg are indicated for the treatment of the following systemic fungal infections in patients who have failed or who are intolerant to other therapies : blastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , histoplasmosis , chromomycosis , and paracoccidioidomycosis .
Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg should not be used for fungal meningitis because it penetrates poorly into the cerebrospinal fluid .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Drug Interactions Coadministration of a number of CYP3A4 substrates is contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets .
Coadministration with ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs and may increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects .
For example , increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsades de pointes , a potentially fatal arrhythmia .
See WARNINGS section , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions section for specific examples .
Liver Disease The use of ketoconazole tablets is contraindicated in patients with acute or chronic liver disease .
Hypersensitivity Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg should be used only when other effective antifungal therapy is not available or tolerated and the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks .
Hepatotoxicity Serious hepatotoxicity , including cases with a fatal outcome or requiring liver transplantation , has occurred with the use of oral ketoconazole .
Some patients had no obvious risk factors for liver disease .
Serious hepatotoxicity was reported both by patients receiving high doses for short treatment durations and by patients receiving low doses for long durations .
The hepatic injury has usually , but not always , been reversible upon discontinuation of ketoconazole tablets treatment .
Cases of hepatitis have been reported in children .
At baseline , obtain laboratory tests ( such as SGGT , alkaline phosphatase , ALT , AST , total bilirubin ( TBL ) , Prothrombin Time ( PT ) , International Normalization Ratio ( INR ) , and testing for viral hepatitides ) .
Patients should be advised against alcohol consumption while on treatment .
If possible , use of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs should be avoided in patients receiving ketoconazole tablets .
Prompt recognition of liver injury is essential .
During the course of treatment , serum ALT should be monitored weekly for the duration of treatment .
If ALT values increase to a level above the upper limit of normal or 30 percent above baseline , or if the patient develops symptoms , ketoconazole treatment should be interrupted and a full set of liver tests should be obtained .
Liver tests should be repeated to ensure normalization of values .
Hepatotoxicity has been reported with restarting oral ketoconazole ( rechallenge ) .
If it is decided to restart oral ketoconazole , monitor the patient frequently to detect any recurring liver injury from the drug .
QT Prolongation and Drug Interactions Leading to QT Prolongation Ketoconazole can prolong the QT interval .
Co - administration of the following drugs with ketoconazole is contraindicated : dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , and cisapride .
Ketoconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs which may prolong the QT interval , sometimes resulting in life - threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes .
Adrenal Insufficiency Ketoconazole tablets decrease adrenal corticosteroid secretion at doses of 400 mg and higher .
This effect is not shared with other azoles .
The recommended dose of 200 mg to 400 mg daily should not be exceeded .
Adrenal function should be monitored in patients with adrenal insufficiency or with borderline adrenal function and in patients under prolonged periods of stress ( major surgery , intensive care , etc . ) .
Adverse Reactions Associated with Unapproved Uses Ketoconazole has been used in high doses for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer and for Cushing ' s syndrome when other treatment options have failed .
The safety and effectiveness of ketoconazole have not been established in these settings and the use of ketoconazole for these indications is not approved by FDA .
In a clinical trial involving 350 patients with metastatic prostatic cancer , eleven deaths were reported within two weeks of starting treatment with high doses of ketoconazole tablets ( 1200 mg / day ) .
It is not possible to ascertain from the information available whether death was related to ketoconazole therapy or adrenal insufficiency in these patients with serious underlying disease .
Hypersensitivity Anaphylaxis has been reported after the first dose .
Several cases of hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria have also been reported .
Enhanced Sedation Co - administration of ketoconazole tablets with oral midazolam , oral triazolam or alprazolam has resulted in elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs .
This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects , especially with repeated dosing or chronic administration of these agents .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with oral triazolam , oral midazolam , or alprazolam is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions sections . )
Myopathy Co - administration of CYP3A4 metabolized HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin , and lovastatin is contraindicated with ketoconazole tablets .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions sections . )
PRECAUTIONS General Ketoconazole tablets have been demonstrated to lower serum testosterone .
Once therapy with ketoconazole tablets has been discontinued , serum testosterone levels return to baseline values .
Testosterone levels are impaired with doses of 800 mg per day and abolished by 1600 mg per day .
Clinical manifestations of decreased testosterone concentrations may include gynecomastia , impotence and oligospermia .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to report any signs and symptoms which may suggest liver dysfunction so that appropriate biochemical testing can be done .
Such signs and symptoms may include unusual fatigue , anorexia , nausea and / or vomiting , abdominal pain , jaundice , dark urine or pale stools ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Drug Interactions Drugs that affect the absorption , distribution , metabolism , and excretion of ketoconazole may alter the plasma concentrations of ketoconazole .
For example , gastric acid suppressants ( e . g . , antacids , histamine H2 - blockers , proton pump inhibitors ) have been shown to reduce plasma concentrations of ketoconazole . Ketoconazole is a substrate and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 .
Therefore , the following drug interactions may occur when ketoconazole is co - administered with other drugs that interact with CYP3A4 .
( See Table 1 and Table 2 for an overview of these drug interactions ; details are provided in the text that follows these tables . )
• Ketoconazole may decrease the elimination of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 , thereby increasing their plasma concentrations .
Increased exposure to these drugs may cause an increase or prolongation of their therapeutic and / or adverse effects .
Concomitant use with ketoconazole tablets is contraindicated for drugs known to present a risk of serious side effects with increased exposure ( see BOXED WARNING , CONTRAINDICATIONS section , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Table 1 ) .
For others , monitoring of plasma concentrations is advised when possible .
Clinical signs and symptoms associated with these drugs should be monitored , with dosage adjusted as needed .
• Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the plasma concentrations of ketoconazole ( see Table 2 ) .
Ketoconazole may not be effective in patients concomitantly taking one of these drugs .
Therefore , administration of these drugs with ketoconazole is not recommended .
• Other inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of ketoconazole ( see Table 2 ) .
Patients who must take ketoconazole concomitantly with one of these drugs should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of ketoconazole .
Table 1 .
Selected Drugs That Have Been Shown To or Are Predicted To Have Their Plasma Concentrations Altered By Ketoconazole [ 1 ] Systemic exposure to these drugs is increased significantly by the addition of ketoconazole : Concomitant use with ketoconazole is contraindicated .
Alprazolam , midazolam , triazolam HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors ( lovastatin , simvastatin ) Cisapride Nisoldipine Dofetilide Pimozide Eplerenone Quinidine Ergot alkaloids ( ergotamine , dihydroergotamine ) Systemic exposure to these drugs is increased by ketoconazole : Careful monitoring , with possible adjustment in dosage , is recommended .
Alfentanil , fentanyl , sulfentanil Indinavir , saquinavir Amlodipine , felodipine , nicardipine , nifedipine Methylprednisolone Bosentan Rifabutin Buspirone Sildenafil Busulfan Sirolimus ( co - administration not recommended ) Carbamazepine Tacrolimus Cilostazol Telithromycin Cyclosporine Tolterodine Digoxin Trimetrexate Docetaxel , paclitaxel Verapamil Oral anti - coagulants Vinca alkaloids ( vincristine , - vinblastine , vinorelbine ) [ 1 ] This list is not all - inclusive .
Table 2 .
Selected Drugs That Have Been Shown To or Are Predicted To Alter The Plasma Concentration Of Ketoconazole * This list is not all - inclusive .
Systemic exposure to ketoconazole is reduced significantly by these drugs : Concomitant use with ketoconazole is not recommended .
Carbamazepine Phenytoin Gastric Acid Suppressants ( antacids , antimuscarinics , histamine H2 - blockers , proton pump inhibitors , sucralfate ) Rifampin , rifabutin , isoniazid Nevirapine Systemic exposure to ketoconazole is increased significantly by this drug : Dose reduction of ketoconazole should be considered Ritonavir 1 .
Effects of ketoconazole on other drugs 1 . 1 Systemic exposure to the following drugs is significantly increased by coadministration of ketoconazole .
Concomitant use of these drugs with ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg is contraindicated Alprazolam , midazolam , triazolam Co - administration of ketoconazole tablets with alprazolam , midazolam , or triazolam has resulted in elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs .
This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects , especially with repeated or chronic administration of these agents .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with alprazolam , oral midazolam , and oral triazolam is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections . )
Special precaution and patient monitoring are required with concomitant parenteral midazolam , because the sedative effect may be prolonged .
Cisapride Oral ketoconazole potently inhibits the metabolism of cisapride resulting in a mean eight - fold increase in AUC of cisapride , which can lead to prolongation of QT interval .
Therefore concomitant administration of ketaconazole tablets with cisapride is contraindicated .
( See BOXED WARNING , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS sections . )
Dofetilide The class III antiarrhythmic dofetilide is known to prolong the QT interval .
The potential increase in dofetilide plasma concentrations when administered concomitantly with ketoconazole could result in serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes .
Therefore , concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with dofetilide is contraindicated .
( See BOXED WARNING , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS sections . )
Eplerenone Ketoconazole increases the eplerenone AUC by roughly 5 - fold , thereby increasing the risk for hyperkalemia and hypotension .
Co - administration of ketoconazole and eplerenone is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS section . )
Ergot Alkaloids Elevated concentrations of ergot alkaloids can cause ergotism , i . e . , a risk for vasospasm potentially leading to cerebral ischemia and / or ischemia of the extremities .
Concomitant administration of ergot alkaloids such as dihydroergotamine and ergotamine with ketoconazole tablets is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS section . )
HMG - CoA Enzyme Inhibitors ( lovastatin , simvastatin ) Co - administration of ketoconazole with CYP3A4 - metabolized HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin , and lovastatin , may increase the risk of skeletal muscle toxicity , including rhabdomyolysis .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with these HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections . )
Nisoldipine Pre - treatment with and concomitant administration of ketoconazole resulted in a 24 - fold and 11 - fold increase in mean AUC and Cmax of nisoldipine , respectively , compared with treatment with nisoldipine 5 mg alone .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole with nisoldipine is contraindicated .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS section . )
Pimozide Pimozide is known to prolong the QT interval and is partially metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Co - administration of ketoconazole and pimozide could result in serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes , and is therefore contraindicated .
( See BOXED WARNING , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS sections . )
Quinidine The class IA antiarhythmic quinidine is known to prolong the QT interval .
The potential increase in quinidine plasma concentrations when administered concomitantly with ketoconazole could result in serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes .
Therefore , concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with quinidine is contraindicated .
( See BOXED WARNING , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS sections . )
1 . 2 Co - administration of ketoconazole with the following agents was shown or is expected to result in increased exposure to these drugs .
Therefore , careful monitoring of plasma concentrations or adverse events of these drugs is recommended .
Adjustment of dosage of these drugs may be needed Alfentanil , sufentanil , fentanyl In vitro data suggest that alfentanil , sufentanil and fentanyl are metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets and alfentanil , sufentanil , or fentanyl may increase plasma concentrations of the latter drugs .
Amlodipine , felodipine , nicardipine , nifedipine CYP3A4 metabolized calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine , felodipine , nicardipine , and nifedipine should be used cautiously with ketoconazole tablets as ketoconazole may cause several - fold increases in plasma concentrations of these calcium channel blockers .
Bosentan Concomitant administration of ketoconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of bosentan 2 . 1 - and 2 . 3 – fold , respectively .
No dosage adjustment of bosentan is needed but close monitoring for increased bosentan - associated adverse effects is recommended .
Buspirone Concomitant administration of buspirone with ketoconazole may result in significant increases in plasma concentrations of buspirone .
When administered with ketoconazole tablets , a low initial dose of buspirone with subsequent dosage adjustment based on clinical assessment is recommended .
Busulfan Ketoconazole tablets may decrease the clearance and thus increase the systemic exposure to busulfan .
Carbamazepine In vivo studies have demonstrated an increase in plasma carbamazepine concentrations in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole .
Close monitoring of plasma carbamazepine concentrations is recommended whenever ketoconazole is given to patients stabilized on carbamazepine therapy .
Cilostazol Ketoconazole had been shown to increase both cilostazol AUC and Cmax by about two - fold when administered concurrently .
Co - administration of ketoconazole with cilostazol resulted in increased incidences of adverse effects , such as headache .
When ketoconazole tablets is administered concomitantly with cilostazol , the prescriber should consider up to a 50 % reduction in cilostazol dosage .
Cyclosporine Ketoconazole tablets may alter the metabolism of cyclosporine , thereby resulting in elevated cyclosporine plasma concentrations .
Dosage adjustment may be required if cyclosporine or tacrolimus is given concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets .
Digoxin Rare cases of elevated plasma concentrations of digoxin have been reported .
It is not clear whether this was due to the combination of therapy .
It is , therefore , advisable to monitor digoxin concentrations in patients receiving ketoconazole .
Docetaxel In the presence of ketoconazole , the clearance of docetaxel in cancer patients was shown to decrease by 50 % .
When docetaxel and ketoconazole are administered together , dosage reduction in docetaxel may be necessary in order to minimize the incidence of toxicities associated with docetaxel .
Indinavir , saquinavir Concomitant administration of ketoconazole and protease inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4 , such as indinavir and saquinavir , may increase plasma concentrations of these protease inhibitors .
Dosage reduction of indinavir is recommended when administering ketoconazole concomitantly .
No dosage adjustments are recommended when saquinavir and ketoconazole are coadministered for a short period of time .
Methylprednisolone Ketoconazole tablets may alter the metabolism of methylprednisolone , resulting in elevated plasma concentrations of methylprednisolone .
Dose adjustments may be required if methylprednisolone is given concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets .
Oral anti - coagulants Oral imidazole compounds such as ketoconazole may enhance the anticoagulant effect of coumarin - like drugs , thus the anticoagulant effect should be carefully titrated and monitored .
Oral hypoglycemic agents Because severe hypoglycemia has been reported in patients concomitantly receiving oral miconazole ( an imidazole ) and oral hypoglycemic agents , such a potential interaction involving the latter agents when used concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets ( an imidazole ) cannot be ruled out .
Rifabutin Ketoconazole was shown to inhibit the CYP - mediated metabolism of rifabutin in vitro .
Co - administration with ketoconazole tablets may result in elevated plasma concentrations of rifabutin .
Sildenafil Ketoconazole had been shown to increase sildenafil plasma concentrations .
When used concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets , a 50 % reduction in sildenafil starting dose should be considered .
Sirolimus Multiple - dose ketoconazole had been shown to increase sirolimus Cmax and AUC by 4 . 3 - fold and 10 . 9 - fold , respectively .
The concomitant use of ketoconazole tablets and sirolimus is not recommended .
Tacrolimus Ketoconazole had been shown to decrease the oral clearance of tacrolimus thereby leading to a 2 - fold increase in tacrolimus oral bioavailability .
Adjustment in tacrolimus dosage may be required if tacrolimus is given concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets .
Telithromycin Ketoconazole increased the AUC of telithromycin by 1 . 5 to 2 - fold .
Use caution when administering telithromycin concurrently with ketoconazole tablets since this may result in an increased risk for telithromycin associated adverse events .
Tolterodine In the presence of ketoconazole , the apparent oral clearance of tolterodine decreased resulting in at least a two - fold increase in tolterodine .
For patients receiving ketoconazole , a 50 % reduction in the initial tolterodine dosage is recommended .
Trimetrexate In vitro data suggest that trimetrexate is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 .
In vitro animal models have demonstrated that ketoconazole potently inhibits the metabolism of trimetrexate .
Patients treated concomitantly with trimetrexate and ketoconazole tablets should be carefully monitored for trimetrexate - associated toxicities .
Verapamil Findings of in vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by enzymes including CYP3A4 .
Ketoconazole may increase verapamil serum concentrations .
Caution should be taken when co - administering verapamil with ketoconazole tablets .
Vinca Alkaloids ( vincristine , vinblastine , vinorelbine ) Ketoconazole may inhibit the metabolism of vinca alkaloids metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Close monitoring for toxicities associated with vincristine , vinblastine , or vinorelbine is recommended when co - administered with ketoconazole tablets .
2 .
Effects of other drugs on ketoconazole 2 . 1 Drugs affecting the absorption of ketoconazole Gastric Acid Suppressors / Neutralizers Studies have shown that absorption of ketoconazole is impaired when gastric acid production is decreased .
Reduced plasma concentrations of ketoconazole were reported when ketoconazole tablets were administered with antacids , antimuscarinics , histamine H2 - blockers , proton pump inhibitors ( omeprazole , lansoprazole ) and sucralfate .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ( General ) section . )
2 . 2 Drugs that were shown or are expected to significantly reduce the systemic exposure to ketoconazole Co - administration of ketoconazole with potent CYP3A4 enzyme inducers is not recommended .
Carbamazepine Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets with carbamazepine may alter the metabolism of one or both of the drugs .
Close monitoring for both plasma concentrations of carbamazepine and reduced ketoconazole efficacy is recommended .
Nevirapine Ketoconazole AUC and Cmax decreased by a median of 63 % and 40 % , respectively , in HIV - infected patients who were given nevirapine 200 mg once daily for two weeks along with ketoconazole 400 mg daily .
Concomitant administration of ketoconazole tablets and nevirapine is not recommended .
Phenytoin Concomitant administration of ketoconazole with phenytoin may alter the metabolism of one or both of the drugs .
Close monitoring for both plasma concentrations of phenytoin and reduced efficacy of ketoconazole tablets is recommended .
Rifampin , rifabutin , isoniazid Concomitant administration of rifampin and rifabutin with ketoconazole tablets reduces the blood concentrations of the latter .
INH ( Isoniazid ) was also reported to affect ketoconazole concentrations adversely .
These antitubercular drugs should not be given concomitantly with ketoconazole tablets .
2 . 3 Drugs that significantly increase the systemic exposure to ketoconazole Ritonavir Concomitant administration of ritonavir with ketoconazole tablets increases was shown to increase the oral bioavailability of ketoconazole .
Therefore , when ritonavir is to be given concomitantly , higher doses ( > 200 mg / day ) of ketoconazole tablets should not be used .
3 .
Other drug interactions Alcohol Rare cases of a disulfiram - like reaction to alcohol have been reported .
These experiences have been characterized by flushing , rash , peripheral edema , nausea , and headache .
Symptoms resolved within a few hours .
Loratadine After the co - administration of 200 mg oral ketoconazole twice daily and one 20 mg dose of loratadine to 11 subjects , the AUC and Cmax of loratadine averaged 302 % ( ± 142 S . D . ) and 251 % ( ± 68 S . D . ) , respectively , of those obtained after cotreatment with placebo .
The AUC and Cmax of descarboethoxyloratadine , an active metabolite , averaged 155 % ( ± 27 S . D . ) and 141 % ( ± 35 S . D . ) , respectively .
However , no related changes were noted in the QTc on ECG taken at 2 , 6 , and 24 hours after the coadministration .
Also , there were no clinically significant differences in adverse events when loratadine was administered with or without ketoconazole .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ketoconazole did not show any signs of mutagenic potential when evaluated using the dominant lethal mutation test or the Ames Salmonella microsomal activator assay .
Ketoconazole was not carcinogenic in an 18 - month , oral study in Swiss albino mice or a 24 - month oral carcinogenicity study in Wistar rats at dose levels of 5 , 20 and 80 mg / kg / day .
The high dose in these studies was approximately 1 × ( mouse ) or 2 × ( rat ) the clinical dose in humans based on a mg / m2 comparison .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Ketoconazole has been shown to be teratogenic ( syndactylia and oligodactylia ) in the rat when given in the diet at 80 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on body surface area comparisons ) .
However , these effects may be related to maternal toxicity , evidence of which also was seen at this and higher dose levels .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketoconazole tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects Ketoconazole has also been found to be embryotoxic in the rat when given in the diet at doses higher than 80 mg / kg during the first trimester of gestation .
In addition , dystocia ( difficult labor ) was noted in rats administered oral ketoconazole during the third trimester of gestation .
This occurred when ketoconazole was administered at doses higher than 10 mg / kg ( about one fourth the maximum human dose , based on body surface area comparison ) .
Nursing Mothers Ketoconazole has been shown to be excreted in the milk .
Mothers who are under treatment with ketoconazole tablets should not breast feed .
Pediatric Use Ketoconazole tablets have not been systematically studied in children of any age , and essentially no information is available on children under 2 years .
Ketoconazole tablets should not be used in pediatric patients unless the potential benefit outweighs the risks .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions were reported in clinical trials : Immune System Disorders : anaphylactoid reaction Endocrine Disorders : gynecomastia Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : alcohol intolerance , anorexia , hyperlipidemia , increased appetite Psychiatric Disorders : insomnia , nervousness Nervous System Disorders : headache , dizziness , paresthesia , somnolence Eye Disorders : photophobia Vascular Disorders : orthostatic hypotension Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : epistaxis Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting , diarrhea , nausea , constipation , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , dry mouth , dysgeusia , dyspepsia , flatulence , tongue discoloration Hepatobiliary Disorders : hepatitis , jaundice , hepatic function abnormal Skin and Subcutaneous Tissues Disorders : erythema multiforme , rash , dermatitis , erythema , urticaria , pruritus , alopecia , xeroderma Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : myalgia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : menstrual disorder General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : asthenia , fatigue , hot flush , malaise , edema peripheral , pyrexia , chills Investigations : platelet count decreased .
Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ketoconazole tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions were reported during post - marketing experience : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders : allergic conditions including anaphylactic shock , anaphylactic reaction , angioneurotic edema Endocrine Disorders : adrenocortical insufficiency Nervous System Disorders : reversible intracranial pressure increased ( e . g . papilloedema , fontanelle bulging in infants ) Hepatobiliary Disorders : serious hepatotoxicity including hepatitis cholestatic , biopsyconfirmed hepatic necrosis , cirrhosis , hepatic failure including cases resulting in transplantation or death Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , photosensitivity Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthralgia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : erectile dysfunction ; with doses higher than the recommended therapeutic dose of 200 or 400 mg daily , azoospermia .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of acute accidental overdose , treatment consists of supportive and symptomatic measures .
Within the first hour after ingestion , activated charcoal may be administered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There should be laboratory as well as clinical documentation of infection prior to starting ketoconazole therapy .
The usual duration of therapy for systemic infection is 6 months .
Treatment should be continued until active fungal infection has subsided .
Adults The recommended starting dose of ketoconazole tablets is a single daily administration of 200 mg ( one tablet ) .
If clinical responsiveness is insufficient within the expected time , the dose of ketoconazole tablets may be increased to 400 mg ( two tablets ) once daily .
Children In small numbers of children over 2 years of age , a single daily dose of 3 . 3 to 6 . 6 mg / kg has been used .
Ketoconazole tablets have not been studied in children under 2 years of age .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg are white to off - white round , flat tablets , one side scored and engraved with " T " above the score and " 57 " below the score .
The other side is plain .
They are supplied in bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 33261 - 0739 - 30 ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Keep out of reach of children .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 26110 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Revised : August , 2013 79775 - 0813 - 3 MEDICATION GUIDE Ketoconazole Tablets USP , 200 mg What is the most important information I should know about ketoconazole tablets USP ?
Ketoconazole tablets is not the only medicine available to treat fungal infections and should only be used when other medicines are not right for you .
Talk to your healthcare provider to find out if ketoconazole tablets are right for you .
Ketoconazole tablets USP can cause serious side effects , including : • liver problems ( hepatotoxicity ) .
Some people who were treated with ketoconazole the active ingredient in ketoconazole tablets , had serious liver problems that led to death or the need for a liver transplant .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • loss of appetite or start losing weight ( anorexia ) • nausea or vomiting • feel tired • stomach pain or tenderness • dark urine or light colored stools • yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes • fever or rash • changes in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation .
QT prolongation can cause irregular heart beats that can be life threatening .
This can happen when ketoconazole tablets are taken with certain medicines , such as dofetilide , quinidine , pimozide , and cisapride .
Talk to your healthcare provider about other medicines you are taking before you start taking ketoconazole tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you feel faint , lightheaded , dizzy , or feel your heart beating irregularly or fast .
These may be symptoms related to QT prolongation .
What are ketoconazole tablets USP ?
• Ketoconazole tablets are prescription medicine used to treat serious fungal infections including : blastomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , histoplasmosis , chromomycosis , and paracoccidioidomycosis .
• Ketoconazole tablets are not for people with fungal nail infections .
• Ketoconazole tablets have not been approved for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer or Cushing ' s syndrome .
The safety and efficacy have not been established .
• Ketoconazole tablets should only be used in children if prescribed by the healthcare provider who has determined that the benefits outweigh the risks .
Who should not take ketoconazole tablets USP ?
• Do not take ketoconazole tablets if you : • have liver problems • take simvastatin , and lovastatin .
Ketoconazole tablets when taken with these medicines may cause muscle problems .
• take eplerenone , dihydroergotamine , ergotamine , and nisoldipine .
• take triazolam , midazolam , or alprazolam .
Taking ketoconazole tablets with these medicines may make you very drowsy and make your drowsiness last longer .
• are allergic to ketoconazole or any of the ingredients in ketoconazole tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ketoconazole tablets .
Before you take ketoconazole tablets USP , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have had an abnormal heart rhythm tracing ( ECG ) or anyone in your family have or have had a heart problem called " congenital long QT syndrome " .
• have adrenal insufficiency .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ketoconazole tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Ketoconazole tablets can pass into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take ketoconazole tablets or breastfeed .
You should NOT do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using ketoconazole tablets with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Using ketoconazole tablets with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
How should I take ketoconazole tablets USP ?
• Take ketoconazole tablets 1 time each day .
• Do not stop taking ketoconazole tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
What should I avoid while taking ketoconazole tablets USP ?
• Do not drink alcohol while taking ketoconazole tablets .
What are the possible side effects of ketoconazole tablets USP ?
Ketoconazole tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about ketoconazole tablets USP ? "
• adrenal insufficiency .
Adrenal insufficiency is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Ketoconazole tablets may cause adrenal insufficiency if you take a high dose .
Your healthcare provider will follow you closely if you have adrenal insufficiency or if you are taking prednisone or other similar medicines for long periods of time .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as tiredness , weakness , dizziness , nausea , and vomiting .
• serious allergic reactions .
Some people can have a serious allergic reaction to ketoconazole tablets .
Stop taking ketoconazole tablets and go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you get a rash , itching , hives , fever , swelling of the lips or tongue , chest pain , or have trouble breathing .
These could be signs of a serious allergic reaction .
• muscle problems .
Taking certain medicines with ketoconazole tablets may cause muscle problems .
See " Who should not take ketoconazole tablets USP ? "
The most common side effects of ketoconazole tablets include nausea , headache , diarrhea , stomach pain , and abnormal liver function tests .
These are not all the possible side effects of ketoconazole tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ketoconazole tablets USP ?
• Store ketoconazole tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep ketoconazole tablets dry .
General information about the safe and effective use of ketoconazole tablets USP .
Medications are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ketoconazole tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ketoconazole tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about ketoconazole tablets .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ketoconazole tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ketoconazole tablets USP , 200 mg ?
Active ingredient : ketoconazole .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and povidone .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Haifa Bay , Israel 26110 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Revised : August , 2013 79775 - 0813 - 3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 33261 - 0739 - 30 30 Tablets Ketoconazole Tablets , USP 200 mg DISPENSE THE ACCOMPANYING MEDICATION GUIDE TO EACH PATIENT .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
