Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide ( stabilized ) 3 % Purpose First aid antiseptic / oral debriding agent Uses • First aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth .
Warnings • For external use only .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Do not use : In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • Longer than one week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if swelling , rash , or fever develops • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , redness persists or worsens KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Directions • For use as a first aid antiseptic : • clean affected area • apply small amount of product on affected area 1 to 3 times a day • if bandaged , let dry first • may be covered with a sterile bandage For use as an oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : • adults and children 2 years of age and over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow .
• use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor or dentist .
Other Information • Keep tightly closed and in a dark place at room temperature • Do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified water .
Topical Solution USP FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC + Treats minor cuts and abrasions + Oral debriding agent + Use as a gargle or rinse DO NOT USE IF SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING New Life Products Inc . • Chicago , IL 60629 Watford WD24 7 GN , UK • 800 - 262 - 2326 www . newlifesanitizer . com ISO 9001 , 22716 and cGMP compliant MADE IN USA Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
