DESCRIPTION ERYGEL ® Topical Gel USP , 2 % contains erythromycin ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - O - methyl - α - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 , - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - β - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione ) , for topical dermatological use .
Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced from a strain of Saccaropolyspora erythraea ( formerly Streptomyces erythreus ) .
It is a base and readily forms salts with acids .
Chemically , erythromycin is C37H67NO13 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Erythromycin has a molecular weight of 733 . 94 .
It is a white or slightly yellow , odorless or practically odorless , bitter crystalline powder .
Erythromycin is very soluble in very polar organic solvents such as alcohols , acetone , chloroform , acetonitrile and ethyl acetate .
It is moderately soluble in less polar solvents such as ether , dichloroethylene and amyl acetate .
It is slightly soluble in nonpolar solvents such as hexane .
It is very poorly soluble in water .
Each gram of ERYGEL ® Topical Gel USP , 2 % contains 20 mg of erythromycin , USP in a vehicle consisting of dehydrated alcohol and hydroxypropyl cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism by which erythromycin reduces lesions of acne vulgaris is not fully known ; however , the effect appears to be due in part to the antibacterial activity of the drug .
MICROBIOLOGY Erythromycin acts by inhibition of protein synthesis in susceptible organisms by reversibly binding to 50 S ribosomal subunits , thereby inhibiting translocation of aminoacyl transfer - RNA and inhibiting polypeptide synthesis .
Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between erythromycin , lincomycin , chloramphenicol , and clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ERYGEL ® Topical Gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ERYGEL ® Topical Gel is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including erythromycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “ antibiotic - associated colitis ” .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General For topical use only ; not for ophthalmic use .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating or abrasive agents .
Avoid contact with eyes and all mucous membranes .
The use of antibiotic agents may be associated with the overgrowth of antibiotic - resistant organisms .
If this occurs , discontinue use and take appropriate measures .
Information for Patients Patients using ERYGEL ® Topical Gel should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
Patients should not use any other topical acne medication unless otherwise directed by their physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic and mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility of topical erythromycin .
However , long - term ( 2 - year ) oral studies in rats with erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin base did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
There was no apparent effect on male or female fertility in rats fed erythromycin ( base ) at levels up to 0 . 25 % of diet .
Pregnancy There was no evidence of teratogenicity or any other adverse effect on reproduction in female rats fed erythromycin base ( up to 0 . 25 % of diet ) prior to and during mating , during gestation and through weaning of two successive litters .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Erythromycin has been reported to cross the placental barrier in humans , but fetal plasma levels are generally low .
Nursing Women It is not known whether erythromycin is excreted in human milk after topical application .
However , erythromycin is excreted in human milk following oral and parenteral erythromycin administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials , the incidence of burning associated with erythromycin topical gel USP , 2 % was approximately 25 % .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported occasionally : peeling , dryness , itching , erythema , and oiliness .
Irritation of the eyes and tenderness of the skin have also been reported with the topical use of erythromycin .
A generalized urticarial reaction , possibly related to the use of erythromycin , which required systemic steroid therapy has been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ERYGEL ® Topical Gel should be applied sparingly as a thin film to affected area ( s ) once or twice a day after the skin is thoroughly cleansed and patted dry .
If there has been no improvement after 6 to 8 weeks , or if the condition becomes worse , treatment should be discontinued , and the physician should be reconsulted .
Spread the medication lightly rather than rubbing it in .
There are no data directly comparing the safety and efficacy of b . i . d . versus q . d . dosing .
HOW SUPPLIED ERYGEL ® ( Erythromycin ) Topical Gel USP , 2 % contains 20 mg of erythromycin , USP per gram .
The clear to slightly yellow gel is available as follows : NDC 0378 - 8075 - 93 carton containing one 30 g tube NDC 0378 - 8075 - 60 carton containing one 60 g tube STORAGE NOTE : FLAMMABLE .
KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT AND FLAME .
Store and dispense in original container .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
© 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company ERYGEL is a registered trademark of Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . Revised : 6 / 2018 DPT : ERYTOP : R2 140973 - 0618 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 2 % NDC 0378 - 8075 - 93 ERYGEL ® ( Erythromycin ) Topical Gel USP , 2 % For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use Rx only Net Wt 30 g Description : ERYGEL ® Topical Gel USP , 2 % contains erythromycin , USP ( 20 mg / g ) in a vehicle consisting of dehydrated alcohol and hydroxypropyl cellulose .
Usual Dosage : ERYGEL ® Topical Gel USP , 2 % should be applied sparingly as a thin film to affected area ( s ) once or twice a day after the skin is thoroughly cleansed and patted dry .
Spread the medication lightly rather than rubbing it in .
The hands should be washed after application .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
NOTE : FLAMMABLE .
KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT AND FLAME .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
To open , reverse cap and push pointed top into neck seal .
To close , screw cap onto tube .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . Mylan . com DPT : 8075 : 93 : 1 C : R2 117506 - 0618 © 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company ERYGEL is a registered trademark of Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
