Active ingredient Hydrogen peroxide 3 % Purpose First aid antiseptic / oral debriding agent Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns • aids in the removal of phlegm , mucus , or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • longer than one week Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns Stop use and ask a docotr if • the condition persists or gets worse • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • swelling , rash , or fever develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions For use as a first aid antiseptic : • clean affected area • apply small amount of product on affected area 1 - 3 times a day • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first For use as an oral debriding agent ( oral rinse ) : • adults and children 2 years of age and over : • mix with an equal amount of water • swish around in the mouth over affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow .
• use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor or dentist Other information • keep tightly closed and in a dark place at room temperature • do not shake bottle .
Hold away from face when opening .
Inactive ingredient purified water Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Principal Display Panel 3 % USP Hydrogen Peroxide FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC / ORAL DEBRIDING AGENT • For treatment of minor cuts , scrapes and burns • For use as an antiseptic gargle or rinse FL OZ ( mL ) TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 topcare @ topco . com www . topcarebrand . com Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
