Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 3 % Octocrylene 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Centre right away .
Directions Directions for sunscreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Storage Other information - protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Prunus amygdalus dulcis ( Sweet almond ) oil , Tribehenin , Astrocaryum murumuru butter , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Sodium polyacrylate , Cetearyl alcohol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Caprylyl glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Citric acid , Xanthan gum , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Sodium benzoate , Hydrolyzed hyaluronic acid , Tocopheryl acetate , Retinyl palmitate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Orchis mascula extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , Dipropylene glycol , Glycine soja ( soyabean ) protein , Citronellol , Silica , Tocopherol Description Firms , lifts and reduces the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles .
Active plant extract , Purple Orchid contains anti - oxidants and polysaccharides to help protect and smooth the skin .
Directions : Use every morning after cleansing .
Colour may vary due to natural ingredients .
Formulated without parabens .
Information Made in the UK .
The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retain USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Jar label Boots Botanics The Power of Plants Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 3 % , Octocrylene 5 % Warnings Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Directions : Use every morning after cleansing Information The Boots Company PLC Notingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . boots . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
