[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment in single dose containers for intravenous administration .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The pH ranges from 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
Composition , osmolarity , and ionic concentration are shown below : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP contains 9 g / L Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) with an osmolarity of 308 mOsmol / L ( calc ) .
It contains 154 mEq / L sodium and 154 mEq / L chloride .
The FLEBOFLEX and FLEBOFLEX LUER plastic containers are fabricated from latex - free polyolefins or polypropylene plastic materials .
The solution contact materials do not contain PVC , DEHP , or other plasticizers .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
The suitability of the container materials has been established through biological evaluations , which have shown the containers pass Class VI U . S . Pharmacopeia ( USP ) testing for plastic containers .
These tests confirm the biological safety of the container systems .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is also indicated for use as a priming solution in hemodialysis procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions , including hypotension , pyrexia , tremor , chills , urticaria , rash , and pruritus have been reported with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction develop , such as tachycardia , chest pain , dyspnea and flushing .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
Electrolyte Imbalances Fluid Overload Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , and the patient ’ s underlying clinical condition , the intravenous administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fluid disturbances such as overhydration / hypervolemia and congested states , including pulmonary congestion and edema .
Avoid 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use .
Hyponatremia Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may cause hyponatremia .
Hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy , and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
The risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia is increased in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) treated with high volume of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , those with psychogenic polydipsia , and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as diuretics , certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) .
See Drug Interactions .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia such as hyponatremic encephalopathy , include pediatric patients , women ( in particular pre - menopausal women ) , patients with hypoxemia , and patients with underlying central nervous system disease .
Avoid Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Brain adaptations reducing risk of cerebral edema make the brain vulnerable to injury when chronic hyponatremia is too rapidly corrected , which is known as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
Hypernatremia Hypernatremia may occur with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Conditions that may increase the risk of hypernatremia , fluid overload and edema ( central and peripheral ) , include patients with : primary hyperaldosteronism ; secondary hyperaldosteronism associated with , for example , hypertension , congestive heart failure , liver disease ( including cirrhosis ) , renal disease ( including renal artery stenosis , nephrosclerosis ) ; and pre - eclampsia .
Certain medications such as corticosteroids or corticotropin , may also increase risk of sodium and fluid retention , see Drug Interactions .
Avoid Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with , or at risk for , hypernatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hypernatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Excessively rapid correction of hypernatremia is also associated with a risk for serious neurologic complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) with risk of seizures and cerebral edema .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk of severe renal impairment , may result in hypernatremia and / or fluid overload ( see Warnings ) .
Avoid Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with severe renal impairment or conditions that may cause sodium and / or potassium retention , fluid overload , or edema .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor patients with severe renal impairment for development of these adverse reactions .
Drug Interactions Other Products that Affect Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload .
Avoid use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving such products , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum electrolytes , fluid balance and acid - base balance .
Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia .
Avoid use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving products , such as diuretics , and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications .
Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Pregnancy There are no adequate and well controlled studies with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pregnant women and animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this drug .
Therefore , it is not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be given during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Lactation It is not known whether this drug is present in human milk .
Because many drugs are present in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients is based on clinical practice .
( See Dosage and Administration ) .
Closely monitor plasma electrolyte concentrations in pediatric patients who may have impaired ability to regulate fluids and electrolytes .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may result in increased serum osmolality and risk of intracerebral hemorrhage .
Children ( including neonates and older children ) are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy .
Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk of developing electrolyte imbalances .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Therefore , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Consider monitoring renal function in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Post - Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post - marketing experience during use of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP and include the following : General disorders and administration site conditions : Infusion site erythema , injection site streaking , burning sensation , and infusion site urticaria .
Hypersensitivity reactions : Hypotension , pyrexia , tremor , chills , urticaria , rash , and pruritus .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : Hypernatremia , hyponatremia , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Nervous System Disorders : Hyponatremic encephalopathy .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause hypernatremia .
Hypernatremia can lead to CNS manifestations , including seizures , coma , cerebral edema and death .
Excessive administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fluid overload ( which can lead to pulmonary and / or peripheral edema ) .
See Warnings and Adverse Reactions .
When assessing an overdose , any additives in the solution must also be considered .
The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment .
Interventions include discontinuation of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP administration , dose reduction , and other measures as indicated for the specific clinical constellation ( e . g . , monitoring of fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions • Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
• Do not connect flexible plastic containers in series in order to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container .
• Set the vent to the closed position on a vented intravenous administration set to prevent air embolism .
• Use a dedicated line without any connections to avoid air embolism .
• Do not pressurize intravenous solutions contained in flexible plastic containers to increase flow rates in order to avoid air embolism due to incomplete evacuation of residual air in the container .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , and container is undamaged .
Dosing Information The choice of product , dosage , volume , rate , and duration of administration is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient and concomitant therapy , and administration should be determined by a physician experienced in intravenous fluid therapy .
Introduction of Additives Additives may be incompatible .
Evaluate all additions to the plastic container for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation .
Consult with a pharmacist , if available .
If , in the informed judgment of the physician , it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced .
After addition , if there is a discoloration and / or the appearance of precipitates , insoluble complexes or crystals , do not use .
Do not store solutions containing additives .
Discard any unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED The available sizes of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP are shown below : Size ( mL ) NDC Catalog No .
Item No .
Fleboflex bags : 50 ( 115 units in one carton ) 81826 - 001 - 01 NS0050 26 . 9459 100 ( 70 units in one carton ) 81826 - 001 - 11 NS0100 26 . 9460 250 ( 28 units in one carton ) 81826 - 001 - 21 NS0250 26 . 9461 500 ( 20 units in one carton ) 81826 - 001 - 31 NS0500 26 . 9462 1000 ( 10 units in one carton ) 81826 - 001 - 41 NS1000 26 . 9463 Fleboflex Luer bags : Not distributed by CODAN US Corporation 50 ( 90 units in one carton ) 100 ( 50 units in one carton ) 250 ( 32 units in one carton ) 500 ( 24 units in one carton ) 1000 ( 10 units in one carton ) Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Store unit in moisture barrier overwrap .
Brief exposure up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) does not adversely affect the product .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF FLEBOFLEX AND FLEBOFLEX LUER PLASTIC CONTAINERS For Information on Risk of Air Embolism – see Dosage and Administration .
To Open Peel off the overwrap and remove solution container .
Visually inspect the container .
If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
Preparation for Administration 1 .
Suspend container from eyelet support .
2 .
Fleboflex bags : Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
Fleboflex Luer bags : Break the twist - off administration port by means of torsion .
3 .
Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Additives may be incompatible .
To add medication before solution administration 1 .
Prepare medication site .
2 .
Fleboflex bags : Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
Fleboflex Luer bags : Using syringe or vial , connect to the needle - free medication port and inject .
3 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
To add medication during solution administration 1 .
Close clamp on the set .
2 .
Prepare medication site .
3 .
Fleboflex bags : Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
Fleboflex Luer bags : Using syringe or vial , connect to the needle - free medication port and inject .
4 .
Remove container from intravenous pole and / or turn to an upright position .
5 .
Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
6 .
Return container to in - use position and continue administration .
Distributed by : CODAN US Corporation Santa Ana , CA 92704 Manufactured by : Laboratorios Grifols , S . A . 30565 Murcia - SPAIN Printed in SPAIN Rev . 08 / 2020 GRIFOLS and FLEBOFLEX are trademarks of Grifols , S . A . 3060502 ( Internal reference ) CODAN PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NS0500 Item No . 26 . 9462 NDC 81826 - 001 - 31 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 mL Fleboflex Container Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat .
CODAN Manufactured for Codan US Corporation Santa Ana , CA 92704 Product of Spain LOT EXP 1002033 Num . : IN HOUSE CONTROL NUMBER 20 x 500 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 81826 - 001 - 32 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 mL For Intravenous use Single dose container Rx Only Each 100 mL contains 900 mg Sodium Chloride USP ; pH 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 Sodium 154 mEq / L Chloride 154 mEq / L ; Osmolarity 308 mOsmol / L ( calc ) Sterile Non pyrogenic .
Dosage intravenously as directed by a physician .
See directions .
Cautions : Squeeze and inspect inner bag which maintains product sterility .
Discard if leaks are found .
Must not be used in series connections .
Do not use unless solution is clear .
Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Store unit in moisture barrier overwrap .
Brief exposure up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) does not adversely affect the product .
Avoid excessive heat .
Read package insert for full information .
Grifols and Fleboflex are trademarks of Grifols , S . A . Manufactured for Codan US Corporation Santa Ana , CA 92704 Product of Spain 4000798 DATA MATRIX Fleboflex Container ( PVC - free and DEHP - free ) The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
CODAN NS0500 Item No . 26 . 9462 LOT XXXXXX EXP MM - YYYY INTERNAL REFERENCE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
