Drug Facts Active ingredient Sulfur 3 . 3 % Purpose Acne treatment Use • For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time • avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water • apply only to areas with acne .
Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of the skin Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply a small amount to wet face and work product into a lather .
Massage onto face avoiding eye area .
Rinse thoroughly with water and pat dry .
Use morning and night .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Other information Store in dry , cool conditions .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua / Eau ) , Cocamidopropyl Hydroxysultaine , Bentonite , Sodium Laurylglucosides Hydroxypropylsulfonate , Glycerin , Disodium Cocoyl Glutamate , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate , Acacia Senegal Gum , Pyrus Malus ( Apple ) Fruit Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Glutamic Acid , Malic Acid , Glycolic Acid , Lactic Acid , Coconut Acid , Xanthan Gum , Sodium Cocoyl Glycinate , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Trisodium Ethylenediamine Disuccinate , Quartz , Citric Acid , Sodium Benzoate .
HOW TO USE ME Massage me all over your wet face until you get a good lather .
Rinse well and pat dry .
Follow with In The Clear Acne Serum to make things really clear and do n't forget your SPF .
HONEST ® GET CLARITY FOAMING ACNE CLEANSER CLEAR THE WAY Colloidal Sulfer + 4 AHAs ( Malic , Glycolic , Lactic and Citric Acid ) OILY 4 fl .
oz .
/ 118 . 2 mL 888 - 862 - 8818 © 2022 Dist .
by The Honest Company , Inc .
Los Angeles , CA 90094 Made in USA from US and imported materials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
