Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each tablet ) Potassium iodide 65 mg Purpose Thyroid blocking Uses Helps prevent radioactive iodine from getting into the thyroid gland during a nuclear radiation emergency .
Use along with other emergency measures recommended by public officials .
Warnings Allergy alert : Iodine may cause an allergic reaction with 1 or more of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or wheezing • swelling • skin rash • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • fever and joint pain Do not use if you have • ever had an allergic reaction to iodine • nodular thyroid disease with heart disease • hypocomplementemic vasculitis • dermatitis herpetiformis Stop use and ask a doctor if you have • an allergic reaction .
Get medical help right away if you have trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing ; shortness of breath ; wheezing ; swelling of the mouth , tongue or throat ; or rash .
• irregular heartbeat or chest pain .
Get medical help right away .
• swelling of the hands or feet , fever , or joint pain .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use as directed by public officials in the event of a nuclear radiation emergency • do not take more than 1 dose in 24 hours • tablets can be whole or crushed and mixed in milk , baby formula , water , orange juice , flat soda like cola , or raspberry syrup The liquid mixture should be given to infants , young children , and others who cannot swallow tablets ; see consumer package insert on how to make a liquid mixture .
Age Dose Adults over 18 years 2 tablets ( whole or crushed ) daily ( 130 mg ) Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh at least 150 pounds 2 tablets ( whole or crushed ) daily ( 130 mg ) Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh less than 150 pounds 1 tablet ( whole or crushed ) daily ( 65 mg ) Children over 3 years to 12 years 1 tablet ( whole or crushed ) daily ( 65 mg ) Children over 1 month to 3 years 1 / 2 tablet ( crushed ) 32 . 5 mg daily as directed in the consumer package insert Birth to 1 month 16 . 25 mg daily as directed in the consumer package insert • If pregnant , breastfeeding , have a baby up to 1 month of age or have thyroid disease ( except nodular thyroid disease with heart disease ) , take as directed above and contact a doctor as soon as possible .
Other Information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • keep dry and foil intact • protect from light • do not throw away consumer package insert Inactive ingredients magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , silica gel , sodium thiosulfate Questions or Comments ?
call toll free 1 - 866 - 463 - 6754 Distributed by : ANBEX INC .
1812 West Sunset Boulevard Suite 1 A - 618 St . Georges , UT 84770 www . anbex . com Consumer Package Insert IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide Tablets USP , 65 mg ) ( Abbreviated KI ) Take potassium iodide ( KI ) only when public officials tell you .
In a nuclear radiation emergency , radioactive iodine could be released into the air .
KI protects only the thyroid gland from uptake of radioactive iodine .
Therefore , KI should be used along with other emergency measures that will be recommended to you by public officials .
If you are told to take this medicine , take it 1 time every 24 hours .
Do not take it more often .
More KI will not help you .
Too much KI may increase the chances of side effects .
Do not take this medicine if you know you are allergic to iodine ( see SIDE EFFECTS below ) .
DESCRIPTION Each white , round , cross - scored — the name IOSAT stamped on one side — tablet contains 65 mg of potassium iodide .
INDICATIONS IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide tablets , USP ) is a thyroid blocking medicine that is used in a nuclear radiation emergency only .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Use only as directed by public officials if a nuclear radiation emergency happens .
Age Dose Adults over 18 years 2 tablets ( whole or crushed ) every day ( 130 mg ) Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh at least 150 pounds 2 tablets ( whole or crushed ) every day ( 130 mg ) Children over 12 years to 18 years who weigh less than 150 pounds 1 tablet ( whole or crushed ) or 8 teaspoonfuls every day ( 65 mg ) Children over 3 years to 12 years 1 tablet ( whole or crushed ) or 8 teaspoonfuls every day ( 65 mg ) Children over 1 month to 3 years 4 teaspoonfuls every day ( 32 . 5 mg ) Birth to 1 month 2 teaspoonfuls every day ( 16 . 25 mg ) Tablets can be crushed and mixed in many liquids .
To take the tablet in liquid solution , use dosing directions under Making a Potassium Iodide Liquid Mixture .
Take KI every day ( every 24 hours ) as directed by public officials .
Do not take more than 1 dose in 24 hours .
More will not help you .
Too much medicine may increase the chances of side effects .
Making a Potassium Iodide Liquid Mixture : • Put one 65 mg KI tablet into a small bowl and grind it into a fine powder using the back of a metal teaspoon against the inside of the bowl .
The powder should not have any large pieces .
• Add 4 teaspoonfuls of water to the crushed KI powder in the bowl and mix until the KI powder is dissolved in the water .
• Take the KI water mixture solution made in step 2 and mix it with 4 teaspoonfuls of low fat white or chocolate milk , orange juice , flat soda , raspberry syrup , or infant formula .
• The KI liquid mixture will keep for up to 7 days in the refrigerator .
It is recommended that the KI liquid mixture be prepared weekly .
Throw away unused portions .
The amount of KI ( 65 mg tablet ) in the drink when mixed as described above is 8 . 125 mg per teaspoonful .
The number of teaspoonfuls of the drink to give your child depends on your child ’ s age as described in the following table : Child ' s Age Give your child this amount in teaspoonfuls Over 12 years to 18 years who weigh less than 150 pounds 8 teaspoonfuls will give you a 65 mg dose Over 3 years to 12 years old 8 teaspoonfuls will give you a 65 mg dose Over 1 month to 3 years old 4 teaspoonfuls will give you a 32 . 5 mg dose Birth to 1 month 2 teaspoonful will give you a 16 . 25 mg dose Note : This is the amount to give your child for one single dose in teaspoonfuls ( not tablespoonfuls ) .
You should give your child one dose each day as recommended by the public officials .
Pregnant or breastfeeding women , or babies under 1 month of age : Take as directed above and call a doctor as soon as possible .
Repeat dosing should be avoided .
It is recommended that thyroid function be checked in babies less than 1 month of age that take KI .
Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should also be checked by a doctor if repeat dosing is necessary .
Although these precautions should be taken , the benefits of short - term use of KI to block uptake of radioactive iodine by the thyroid gland far exceed its chances of side effects .
Patients with thyroid disease : If you have both a nodular thyroid condition such as multinodular goiter with heart disease , you should not take KI .
Patients with other thyroid conditions may take KI as directed above , but call a doctor if you need to take KI for more than a few days .
WARNING People who are allergic to iodine , have dermatitis herpetiformis or hypocomplementemic vasculitis , or have nodular thyroid disease with heart disease should not take KI .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of an allergic reaction ( difficulty breathing , speaking or swallowing ; wheezing ; shortness of breath or swelling of the mouth or throat ) , call 911 or get medical care right away .
In case of overdose , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away .
HOW POTASSIUM IODIDE WORKS Certain forms of iodine help your thyroid gland work right .
Most people get the iodine they need from foods like iodized salt or fish .
The thyroid can “ store ” or hold only a certain amount of iodine .
In nuclear radiation emergency , radioactive iodine may be released in the air .
This material may be breathed or swallowed .
It may enter the thyroid gland and damage it .
The damage would probably not show itself for years .
Children are most likely to have thyroid damage .
If you take KI , it will block or reduce the chances that radioactive iodine will enter your thyroid gland .
WHO SHOULD NOT TAKE POTASSIUM IODIDE People should avoid KI if they are allergic to iodine , have dermatitis herpetiformis or hypocomplementemic vasculitis , or have nodular thyroid disease with heart disease , because these conditions may increase the chances of side effects to iodine .
HOW AND WHEN TO TAKE POTASSIUM IODIDE KI should be taken as soon as possible after public officials tell you .
If you are told to repeat the dose , you should take the second dose 24 hours after the first dose .
Do not take it sooner .
More KI will not help you because the thyroid can “ hold ” only certain amounts of iodine .
Taking more than 1 dose per day will increase the chances of side effects .
The public officials will tell you how many days to take KI .
You should take KI until the chances of major exposure to radioactive iodine by breathing or swallowing stops .
SIDE EFFECTS Short - term use of KI at the recommended dose is safe .
You should not take this drug for longer than you are told .
Possible side effects include : swelling of the salivary glands , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , stomach ache , fever , headache , metallic taste , and allergic reactions .
Allergic reaction can include • skin rashes such as hives • swelling of various parts of the body such as the face , lips , tongue , throat , hands or feet • fever with joint pain • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • wheezing or shortness of breath Get medical attention right away if you have trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing ; wheezing ; shortness of breath ; or swelling of the mouth , tongue or throat .
Taking iodide , in rare cases , may cause overactivity of the thyroid gland , underactivity of the thyroid gland , or enlargement of the thyroid gland ( goiter ) .
Symptoms of an overactive thyroid gland may include an irregular heartbeat and chest pain .
Patients with thyroid disease are more likely to get these side effects .
Babies under 1 month of age are more likely to get an underactive thyroid gland ( hypothyroidism ) .
WHAT TO DO IF SIDE EFFECTS OCCUR Stop taking KI and call a doctor if you have one of the following symptoms : • swelling of the face , hands or feet • fever and joint pain • skin rash Stop taking KI and get medical help right away if you have one or more of the following symptoms : • trouble breathing , speaking or swallowing • shortness of breath or wheezing • swelling of the lips , tongue or throat • irregular heart beat or chest pain HOW SUPPLIED IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide Tablets , USP 65 mg ) Packages of 20 tablets .
Each white , round tablet , cross - scored on one side and the IOSAT name on the other , contains 65 mg potassium iodide .
NDC 51803 - 002 - 01 : 2 X 10 Unit dose , Foil Sealed , 65 mg Tablets ( 20 Tablets ) .
IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide Tablets , USP 65 mg ) Packages of 14 tablets .
Each white , round tablet , cross - scored on one side and the IOSAT name on the other , contains 65 mg potassium iodide .
NDC 51803 - 002 - 02 : 14 Unit dose , Foil Sealed , 65 mg Tablets ( 14 Tablets ) .
Also available : IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide Tablets , USP 130 mg ) Each white , round tablet , cross - scored on one side and the IOSAT name on the other , contains 130 mg potassium iodide .
NDC 51803 - 001 - 01 : 14 Unit dose , Foil Sealed , 130 mg Tablets .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Keep dry and foil intact .
Distributed by : ANBEX INC .
1812 West Sunset Boulevard Suite 1 A - 618 St . Georges , UT 84770 ( 866 ) 463 - 6754 www . anbex . com SH905 - 2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL IOSAT ™ ( Potassium Iodide Tablets , USP 65 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
