Pyrithione Zinc 1 . 5 % Antidandruff Helps eliminate and reduces the recurrence of scalp itching , irritation , redness , flaking and scaling associated with dandruff .
For external use only .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply a tablespoon of shampoo to wet hair and gently massage the scalp with fingertips for 1 . 5 to 2 minutes and rinse well • for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Store away from direct sunlight Cosmetic Ingredients Acrylates Copolymer , Amodimethicone , Apigenin , Benzyl Alcohol , Biocomplex B11 Herbal Extract [ Achillea Millefolium Extract ] , Ceratonia Siliqua ( Carob ) Fruit Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Equisetum Arvense Extract , Urtica Dioica ( Nettle ) Root Extract , Urtica Urens Leaf Extract , Biotinoyl Tripeptide - 1 , Butylene Glycol , C11 - 15 Pareth - 7 , Citric Acid , Citronellol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Fragrance , Geraniol , Glycerin , Hydroxypropyl Guar Hydroxyproplytrimonium Chloride , Laureth - 2 , Laureth - 9 , Mel , Methylchloroisothiazolinone , Methylisothiazolinole , Oleanolic Acid , Panthenol , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , PEG / PPG - 120 / 10 Trimethylpropane Trioleate , Polysorbate 20 , PPG - 26 - Buteth - 26 , Propylene Glycol , Salicylic Acid , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Laureth Sulfate , Trideceth - 12 , Vitis Vinifera ( Grape ) Seed Extract , Water Toll Free 1 - 855 - 246 - 8291 Monday through Friday , 9 am - 5 pm B ' IOTA Botanicals Dandruff Shampoo Benefits • Dermatologist tested • For women and men • No known side effects • Safe for color - treated hair • Revitalizes the appearance of hair and provides volume , shine and vibrancy • Eliminates and reduces the recurrence of the symptoms of dandruff Distributed by : B ' IOTA Botanical Laboratories 2 Greenwich Office Park , Suite 300 Greenwich , CT 06830 Product of Turkey www . biotabotanicals . com Toll Free 855 - 246 - 8291 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
