WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR and GASTROINTESTINAL RISKS WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR and GASTROINTESTINAL RISKS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Cardiovascular Risk • NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk .
( 5 . 1 ) • Meloxicam tablet is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( 4 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events .
( 5 . 2 ) • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Meloxicam tablet is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 . 2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse reactions including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablet is a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug indicated for : • Osteoarthritis ( OA ) ( 1 . 1 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Osteoarthritis ( OA ) Meloxicam tablet is indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [ See CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Rheumatoid Arthritis ( RA ) Meloxicam tablet is indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [ See CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual treatment goals for the individual patient .
• OA ( 2 . 2 ) and RA ( 2 . 3 ) : o Starting dose : 7 . 5 mg once daily o Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily 2 . 1 General Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets , adjust the dose to suit an individual patient ' s needs .
In adults , the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablet is 15 mg regardless of formulation .
In patients with hemodialysis , a maximum daily dosage of 7 . 5 mg is recommended [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) , USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Meloxicam tablet may be taken without regard to timing of meals .
2 . 2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablet is 7 . 5 mg once daily .
Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily .
2 . 3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis , the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablet is 7 . 5 mg once daily .
Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Tablets : 7 . 5 mg , 15 mg ( 3 ) Tablets : • 7 . 5 mg : light yellow coloured , round , biconvex tablets plain on one side and debossed with ' 7 . 5 ' on other side .
• 15 mg : light yellow coloured , oval shaped , biconvex tablets plain on one side and debossed with ' 15 ' on other side .
4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions ) to meloxicam ( 4 . 1 ) • History of asthma , urticaria , or other allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 . 1 ) • Use during the peri - operative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Allergic Reactions Meloxicam is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions ) to meloxicam .
Meloxicam should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Severe , rarely fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 13 ) ] .
4 . 2 Coronary Surgery Meloxicam is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke .
Patients with known CV disease / risk factors may be at greater risk .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events which can be fatal .
The risk is greater in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding , and in patients at higher risk for GI events , especially the elderly .
( 5 . 2 ) • Elevated liver enzymes , and rarely , severe hepatic reactions .
Discontinue use immediately if abnormal liver enzymes persist or worsen .
( 5 . 3 ) • New onset or worsening of hypertension .
Blood pressure should be monitored closely during treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) • Fluid retention and edema .
Should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
( 5 . 5 ) • Renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury with long - term use .
Use with caution in the elderly , those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , and those taking diuretics , ACE - inhibitors , or angiotensin II antagonists .
The use of meloxicam tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is not recommended .
( 5 . 6 ) • Serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal and can occur without warning .
Discontinue meloxicam tablets at first appearance of rash or skin reactions .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years ’ duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Patients should be informed about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
Two large , controlled , clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious GI events [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Effects - Risk of GI Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation NSAIDs , including meloxicam , can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including inflammation , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with NSAIDs .
Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic .
Upper GI ulcers , gross bleeding , or perforation caused by NSAIDs , occur in approximately 1 % of patients treated for 3 to 6 months , and in about 2 % to 4 % of patients treated for one year .
These trends continue with longer duration of use , increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy .
However , even short - term therapy is not without risk .
Prescribe NSAIDs , including meloxicam , with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and / or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 - fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors .
Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore , special care should be taken in treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration .
Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during meloxicam therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
This should include discontinuation of meloxicam until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out .
For high - risk patients , consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs .
5 . 3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15 % of patients taking NSAIDs including meloxicam .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , may remain unchanged , or may be transient with continuing therapy .
Notable elevations of ALT or AST ( approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal ) have been reported in approximately 1 % of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs .
In addition , rare cases of severe hepatic reactions , including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis , liver necrosis and hepatic failure , some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported [ See ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
A patient with symptoms and / or signs suggesting liver dysfunction , or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred , should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with meloxicam .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) , discontinue meloxicam [ See USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypertension NSAIDs , including meloxicam , can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre - existing hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
NSAIDs , including meloxicam , should be used with caution in patients with hypertension .
Blood pressure ( BP ) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Patients taking ACE inhibitors , thiazides , or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
5 . 5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs .
Use meloxicam with caution in patients with fluid retention , hypertension , or heart failure .
5 . 6 Renal Effects Long - term administration of NSAIDs , including meloxicam , can result in renal papillary necrosis , renal insufficiency , acute renal failure , and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics , ACE - inhibitors , and angiotensin II receptor antagonists , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
A pharmacokinetic study in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment revealed that no dosage adjustments in these patient populations are required .
Patients with severe renal impairment have not been studied .
The use of meloxicam s in patients with severe renal impairment with CrCl less than 20 mL / min is not recommended .
A study performed in patients on hemodialysis revealed that although overall Cmax was diminished in this population , the proportion of free drug not bound to plasma was increased .
Therefore it is recommended that meloxicam dosage in this population not exceed 7 . 5 mg per day .
Closely monitor the renal function of patients with impaired renal function who are taking meloxicam [ See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use caution when initiating treatment with meloxicam in patients with considerable dehydration .
It is advisable to rehydrate patients first and then start therapy with meloxicam .
Caution is also recommended in patients with pre - existing kidney disease .
The extent to which metabolites may accumulate in patients with renal impairment has not been studied with meloxicam .
Because some meloxicam metabolites are excreted by the kidney , monitor patients with significant renal impairment closely .
5 . 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients without known prior exposure to meloxicam .
Meloxicam should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 . 1 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs .
5 . 8 Adverse Skin Reactions NSAIDs , including meloxicam , can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
5 . 9 Pregnancy .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , avoid the use of meloxicam because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus [ See USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 10 Corticosteroid Treatment Meloxicam cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency .
Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation .
Slowly taper patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids .
5 . 11 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of meloxicam in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious , painful conditions .
5 . 12 Hematological Effects Anemia may occur in patients receiving NSAIDs , including meloxicam .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs , including meloxicam , should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia .
NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration , and reversible .
Carefully monitor patients treated with meloxicam who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants .
5 . 13 Use in Patients with Pre - existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm , which can be fatal .
Since cross reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , meloxicam should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with pre - existing asthma .
5 . 14 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding .
Patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop , systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , meloxicam should be discontinued .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS • Most common ( ≥ 5 % and greater than placebo ) adverse events in adults are diarrhea , upper respiratory tract infections , dyspepsia , and influenza - like symptoms ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular thrombotic events [ See BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Gastrointestinal effects – risk of GI ulceration , bleeding , and perforation [ See BOXED WARNINGand WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hepatic effects [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypertension [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Congestive heart failure and edema [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Renal effects [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Anaphylactoid reactions [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Adverse skin reactions [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Adults Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The meloxicam Phase 2 / 3 clinical trial database includes 10 , 122 OA patients and 1012 RA patients treated with meloxicam 7 . 5 mg / day , 3505 OA patients and 1351 RA patients treated with meloxicam 15 mg / day .
Meloxicam at these doses was administered to 661 patients for at least 6 months and to 312 patients for at least one year .
Approximately 10 , 500 of these patients were treated in ten placebo - and / or active - controlled osteoarthritis trials and 2363 of these patients were treated in ten placebo - and / or active - controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials .
Gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events were the most frequently reported adverse events in all treatment groups across meloxicam trials .
A 12 - week multicenter , double - blind , randomized trial was conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo and with an active control .
Two 12 - week multicenter , double - blind , randomized trials were conducted in patients with rheumatoid arthritis to compare the efficacy and safety of meloxicam with placebo .
Table 1 a depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥ 2 % of the meloxicam treatment groups in a 12 - week placebo - and active - controlled osteoarthritis trial .
Table 1 b depicts adverse events that occurred in ≥ 2 % of the meloxicam treatment groups in two 12 - week placebo - controlled rheumatoid arthritis trials .
Table 1 a Adverse Events ( % ) Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Meloxicam Patients in a 12 - Week Osteoarthritis Placebo - and Active - Controlled Trial Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Diclofenac 100 mg daily No .
of Patients 157 154 156 153 Gastrointestinal 17 . 2 20 . 1 17 . 3 28 . 1 Abdominal pain 2 . 5 1 . 9 2 . 6 1 . 3 Diarrhea 3 . 8 7 . 8 3 . 2 9 . 2 Dyspepsia 4 . 5 4 . 5 4 . 5 6 . 5 Flatulence 4 . 5 3 . 2 3 . 2 3 . 9 Nausea 3 . 2 3 . 9 3 . 8 7 . 2 Body as a Whole Accident household 1 . 9 4 . 5 3 . 2 2 . 6 Edema 2 . 5 1 . 9 4 . 5 3 . 3 Fall 0 . 6 2 . 6 0 . 0 1 . 3 Influenza - like symptoms 5 . 1 4 . 5 5 . 8 2 . 6 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 3 . 2 2 . 6 3 . 8 2 . 0 Headache 10 . 2 7 . 8 8 . 3 5 . 9 Respiratory Pharyngitis 1 . 3 0 . 6 3 . 2 1 . 3 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 . 9 3 . 2 1 . 9 3 . 3 Skin Rash 2 . 5 2 . 6 0 . 6 2 . 0 Table 1 b Adverse Events ( % ) Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Meloxicam Patients in two 12 - Week Rheumatoid Arthritis Placebo - Controlled Trials Placebo Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily No .
of Patients 469 481 477 Gastrointestinal Disorders 14 . 1 18 . 9 16 . 8 Abdominal pain NOS [ 1 ] 0 . 6 2 . 9 2 . 3 Dyspeptic signs and symptoms [ 2 ] 3 . 8 5 . 8 4 . 0 Nausea null 2 . 6 3 . 3 3 . 8 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza - like illness null 2 . 1 2 . 9 2 . 3 Infection and Infestations Upper respiratory tract infections - pathogen class unspecified null 4 . 1 7 . 0 6 . 5 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Joint related signs and symptoms null 1 . 9 1 . 5 2 . 3 Nervous System Disorders Headaches NOS null 6 . 4 6 . 4 5 . 5 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash NOS null 1 . 7 1 . 0 2 . 1 [ 1 ] MedDRA preferred term : nausea , abdominal pain NOS , influenza - like illness , headaches NOS , and rash NOS [ 2 ] MedDRA high level term ( preferred terms ) : dyspeptic signs and symptoms ( dyspepsia , dyspepsia aggravated , eructation , gastrointestinal irritation ) , upper respiratory tract infections - pathogen unspecified ( laryngitis NOS , pharyngitis NOS , sinusitis NOS ) , joint related signs and symptoms ( arthralgia , arthralgia aggravated , joint crepitation , joint effusion , joint swelling ) The adverse events that occurred with meloxicam in ≥ 2 % of patients treated short - term ( 4 to 6 weeks ) and long - term ( 6 months ) in active - controlled osteoarthritis trials are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 Adverse Events ( % ) Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Meloxicam Patients in 4 to 6 Weeks and 6 Month Active - Controlled Osteoarthritis Trials 4 to 6 Weeks Controlled Trials 6 Month Controlled Trials Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily Meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily Meloxicam 15 mg daily No .
of Patients 8955 256 169 306 Gastrointestinal 11 . 8 18 . 0 26 . 6 24 . 2 Abdominal pain 2 . 7 2 . 3 4 . 7 2 . 9 Constipation 0 . 8 1 . 2 1 . 8 2 . 6 Diarrhea 1 . 9 2 . 7 5 . 9 2 . 6 Dyspepsia 3 . 8 7 . 4 8 . 9 9 . 5 Flatulence 0 . 5 0 . 4 3 . 0 2 . 6 Nausea 2 . 4 0 . 47 4 . 7 7 . 2 Vomiting 0 . 6 0 . 8 1 . 8 2 . 6 Body as a Whole Accident household 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 6 2 . 9 Edema 0 . 6 2 . 0 2 . 4 1 . 6 Pain 0 . 9 2 . 0 3 . 6 5 . 2 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 1 . 1 1 . 6 2 . 4 2 . 6 Headache 2 . 4 2 . 7 3 . 6 2 . 6 Hematologic Anemia 0 . 1 0 . 0 4 . 1 2 . 9 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 0 . 5 0 . 0 5 . 3 1 . 3 Back pain 0 . 5 0 . 4 3 . 0 0 . 7 Psychiatric Insomnia 0 . 4 0 . 0 3 . 6 1 . 6 Respiratory Coughing 0 . 2 0 . 8 2 . 4 1 . 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 0 . 2 0 . 0 8 . 3 7 . 5 Skin Pruritus 0 . 4 1 . 2 2 . 4 0 . 0 Rash 0 . 3 1 . 2 3 . 0 1 . 3 Urinary Micturition frequency 0 . 1 0 . 4 2 . 4 1 . 3 Urinary tract infection 0 . 3 0 . 4 4 . 7 6 . 9 Higher doses of meloxicam ( 22 . 5 mg and greater ) have been associated with an increased risk of serious GI events ; therefore , the daily dose of meloxicam should not exceed 15 mg .
The following is a list of adverse drug reactions occurring in < 2 % of patients receiving meloxicam in clinical trials involving approximately 16 , 200 patients .
Body as a Whole allergic reaction , face edema , fatigue , fever , hot flushes , malaise , syncope , weight decrease , weight increase Cardiovascular angina pectoris , cardiac failure , hypertension , hypotension , myocardial infarction , vasculitis Central and Peripheral Nervous System convulsions , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo Gastrointestinal colitis , dry mouth , duodenal ulcer , eructation , esophagitis , gastric ulcer , gastritis , gastroesophageal reflux , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hematemesis , hemorrhagic duodenal ulcer , hemorrhagic gastric ulcer , intestinal perforation , melena , pancreatitis , perforated duodenal ulcer , perforated gastric ulcer , stomatitis ulcerative Heart Rate and Rhythm arrhythmia , palpitation , tachycardia Hematologic leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia Liver and Biliary System ALT increased , AST increased , bilirubinemia , GGT increased , hepatitis Metabolic and Nutritional dehydration Psychiatric abnormal dreaming , anxiety , appetite increased , confusion , depression , nervousness , somnolence Respiratory asthma , bronchospasm , dyspnea Skin and Appendages alopecia , angioedema , bullous eruption , photosensitivity reaction , pruritus , sweating increased , urticaria Special Senses abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , taste perversion , tinnitus Urinary System albuminuria , BUN increased , creatinine increased , hematuria , renal failure 6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of meloxicam .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Decisions about whether to include an adverse event from spontaneous reports in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors : ( 1 ) seriousness of the event , ( 2 ) number of reports , or ( 3 ) strength of causal relationship to the drug .
Adverse reactions reported in worldwide post marketing experience or the literature include : acute urinary retention ; agranulocytosis ; alterations in mood ( such as mood elevation ) ; anaphylactoid reactions including shock ; erythema multiforme ; exfoliative dermatitis ; interstitial nephritis ; jaundice ; liver failure ; Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of meloxicam tablets and warfarin may result in increased risk of bleeding complications ( 7 . 7 ) • Concomitant use of meloxicam tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effect including increased GI bleeding ( 7 . 2 ) • Concomitant use with meloxicam tablets increases lithium plasma levels ( 7 . 4 ) • Concomitant use with NSAIDs may reduce the antihypertensive effect of ACE - inhibitors ( 7 . 1 ) See also Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) .
7 . 1 ACE - inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE - inhibitors .
This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking meloxicam concomitantly with ACE - inhibitors .
7 . 2 Aspirin When meloxicam is administered with aspirin ( 1000 mg three times daily ) to healthy volunteers , an increase the AUC ( 10 % ) and Cmax ( 24 % ) of meloxicam was noted .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs concomitant administration of meloxicam and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects .
Concomitant administration of low - dose aspirin with meloxicam may result in an increased rate of GI ulceration or other complications , compared to use of meloxicam alone .
meloxicam is not a substitute for aspirin for cardiovascular prophylaxis .
7 . 3 Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as post marketing observations , have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
However , studies with furosemide agents and meloxicam have not demonstrated a reduction in natriuretic effect .
Furosemide single and multiple dose pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are not affected by multiple doses of meloxicam .
Nevertheless , during concomitant therapy with meloxicam , patients should be observed closely for signs of renal failure [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) ] , as well as to ensure diuretic efficacy .
7 . 4 Lithium In a study conducted in healthy subjects , mean pre - dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21 % in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by meloxicam .
Closely monitor patients on lithium treatment for signs of lithium toxicity when meloxicam is introduced , adjusted , or withdrawn .
7 . 5 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
Therefore , NSAIDs may reduce the elimination of methotrexate , thereby enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate .
Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with methotrexate [ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 6 Cyclosporine Meloxicam , like other NSAIDs , may affect renal prostaglandins , thereby altering the renal toxicity of certain drugs .
Therefore , concomitant therapy with meloxicam may increase cyclosporine ' s nephrotoxicity .
Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine .
7 . 7 Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
Monitor anticoagulant activity , particularly in the first few days after initiating or changing meloxicam therapy in patients receiving warfarin or similar agents , since these patients are at an increased risk of bleeding than with the use of either drug alone .
Use caution when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [ See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , meloxicam tablets should be avoided as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur .
( 5 . 9 , 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Use with caution , as meloxicam may be excreted in human milk ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C ; Category D starting 30 weeks gestation There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Meloxicam crosses the placental barrier .
Prior to 30 weeks gestation , use meloxicam during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Starting at 30 weeks gestation , avoid meloxicam and other NSAIDs , in pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur .
If this drug is used during this time period in pregnancy , inform the patient of the potential hazard to a fetus [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 8 ) ] .
Teratogenic Effects Meloxicam was not teratogenic when administered to pregnant rats during fetal organogenesis at oral doses up to 4 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 6 - fold greater than the maximum recommended human daily dose [ MRHD ] based on body surface area [ BSA ] comparison ) .
Administration of meloxicam to pregnant rabbits throughout embryogenesis produced an increased incidence of septal defects of the heart at an oral dose of 60 mg / kg / day .
The no effect level was 20 mg / kg / day ( 26 - fold greater than the MRHD based on BSA conversion ) .
Nonteratogenic Effects In rats and rabbits , embryolethality occurred at oral meloxicam doses of 1 mg / kg / day and 5 mg / kg / day , respectively ( 0 . 65 - and 6 . 5 - fold greater , respectively , than the MRHD based on BSA comparison ) when administered throughout organogenesis .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of meloxicam on labor and delivery of pregnant women are unknown .
Oral administration of meloxicam to pregnant rats during late gestation through lactation increased the incidence of dystocia , delayed parturition , and decreased offspring survival at meloxicam doses of 0 . 125 mg / kg / day or greater ( at least 12 . 5 times lower than the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk ; however , meloxicam was excreted in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations higher than those in plasma .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from meloxicam , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use of this drug for a pediatric indication is protected by marketing exclusivity .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use As with any NSAID , caution should be exercised in treating the elderly ( 65 years and older ) .
Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies , 5157 were age 65 and over ( 4044 in OA studies and 1113 in RA studies ) .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been adequately studied .
Since meloxicam is significantly metabolized in the liver ; the use of meloxicam in these patients should be done with caution [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
Patients with severe renal impairment have not been studied .
The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended .
Following a single dose of meloxicam , the free Cmax plasma concentrations were higher in patients with renal failure on chronic hemodialysis ( 1 % free fraction ) in comparison to healthy volunteers ( 0 . 3 % free fraction ) .
Therefore , it is recommended that meloxicam dosage in this population not exceed 7 . 5 mg per day Hemodialysis did not lower the total drug concentration in plasma ; therefore , additional doses are not necessary after hemodialysis .
Meloxicam is not dialyzable [ See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE There is limited experience with meloxicam overdose .
Four cases have taken 6 to 11 times the highest recommended dose ; all recovered .
Cholestyramine is known to accelerate the clearance of meloxicam .
Symptoms following acute NSAID overdose include lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Severe poisoning may result in hypertension , acute renal failure , hepatic dysfunction , respiratory depression , coma , convulsions , cardiovascular collapse , and cardiac arrest .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs , and may occur following an overdose .
Patients should be managed with symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose .
Administration of activated charcoal is recommended for patients who present 1 to 2 hours after overdose .
For substantial overdose or severely symptomatic patients , activated charcoal may be administered repeatedly .
Accelerated removal of meloxicam by 4 gm oral doses of cholestyramine given three times a day was demonstrated in a clinical trial .
Administration of cholestyramine may be useful following an overdose .
Forced diuresis , alkalinization of urine , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
For additional information about overdose treatment , call a poison control center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Meloxicam , an oxicam derivative , is a member of the enolic acid group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Each light yellow meloxicam tablet contains 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg meloxicam for oral administration .
Meloxicam is chemically designated as 4 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - N - ( 5 - methyl - 2 - thiazolyl ) - 2 H - 1 , 2 - benzothiazine - 3 - carboxamide - 1 , 1 - dioxide .
The molecular weight is 351 . 4 .
Its empirical formula is C14H13N3O4S2 and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Meloxicam is pastel yellow solid , practically insoluble in water , with higher solubility observed in strong acids and bases .
It is very slightly soluble in methanol .
Meloxicam has an apparent partition coefficient ( log P ) app = 0 . 1 in n - octanol / buffer pH 7 . 4 .
Meloxicam has pKa values of 1 . 1 and 4 . 2 .
Meloxicam tablet is available as a tablet for oral administration containing 7 . 5 mg or 15 mg meloxicam .
The inactive ingredients in meloxicam tablets include colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone and sodium citrate dihydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of meloxicam , like that of other NSAIDs , may be related to prostaglandin synthetase ( cyclo - oxygenase ) inhibition which is involved in the initial steps of the arachidonic acid cascade , resulting in the reduced formation of prostaglandins , thromboxanes and prostacylin .
It is not completely understood how reduced synthesis of these compounds results in therapeutic efficacy .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Meloxicam exhibits anti - inflammatory , analgesic , and antipyretic activities .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absolute bioavailability of meloxicam capsules was 89 % following a single oral dose of 30 mg compared with 30 mg IV bolus injection .
Following single intravenous doses , dose - proportional pharmacokinetics were shown in the range of 5 mg to 60 mg .
After multiple oral doses the pharmacokinetics of meloxicam capsules were dose - proportional over the range of 7 . 5 mg to 15 mg .
Mean Cmax was achieved within four to five hours after a 7 . 5 mg meloxicam was taken under fasted conditions , indicating a prolonged drug absorption .
With multiple dosing , steady - state concentrations were reached by Day 5 .
A second meloxicam concentration peak occurs around 12 to 14 hours post - dose suggesting biliary recycling .
Table 3 Single Dose and Steady - State Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Oral 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg Meloxicam ( Mean and % CV ) Steady State Single Dose Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( % CV ) Healthy male adults ( Fed ) [ 1 ] Elderly males ( Fed ) null Elderly females ( Fed ) null Renal failure ( Fasted ) Hepatic insufficiency ( Fasted ) 7 . 5 mg tablets 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules 15 mg capsules N 18 5 8 12 12 Cmax [ μg / mL ] 1 . 05 ( 20 ) 2 . 3 ( 59 ) 3 . 2 ( 24 ) 0 . 59 ( 36 ) 0 . 84 ( 29 ) tmax [ h ] 4 . 9 ( 8 ) 5 ( 12 ) 6 ( 27 ) 4 ( 65 ) 10 ( 87 ) t1 / 2 [ h ] 20 . 1 ( 29 ) 21 ( 34 ) 24 ( 34 ) 18 ( 46 ) 16 ( 29 ) CL / f [ mL / min ] 8 . 8 ( 29 ) 9 . 9 ( 76 ) 5 . 1 ( 22 ) 19 ( 43 ) 11 ( 44 ) Vz / f [ L ] 14 . 7 ( 32 ) 15 ( 42 ) 10 ( 30 ) 26 ( 44 ) 14 ( 29 ) [ 1 ] not under high fat conditions Food and Antacid Effects Administration of meloxicam capsules following a high fat breakfast ( 75 g of fat ) resulted in mean peak drug levels ( i . e . , Cmax ) being increased by approximately 22 % while the extent of absorption ( AUC ) was unchanged .
The time to maximum concentration ( Tmax ) was achieved between 5 and 6 hours .
In comparison , neither the AUC nor the Cmax values for meloxicam suspension were affected following a similar high fat meal , while mean Tmax values were increased to approximately 7 hours .
No pharmacokinetic interaction was detected with concomitant administration of antacids .
Based on these results , meloxicam can be administered without regard to timing of meals or concomitant administration of antacids .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution ( Vss ) of meloxicam is approximately 10 L . Meloxicam is ~ 99 . 4 % bound to human plasma proteins ( primarily albumin ) within the therapeutic dose range .
The fraction of protein binding is independent of drug concentration , over the clinically relevant concentration range , but decreases to ~ 99 % in patients with renal disease .
Meloxicam penetration into human red blood cells , after oral dosing , is less than 10 % .
Following a radiolabeled dose , over 90 % of the radioactivity detected in the plasma was present as unchanged meloxicam .
Meloxicam concentrations in synovial fluid , after a single oral dose , range from 40 % to 50 % of those in plasma .
The free fraction in synovial fluid is 2 . 5 times higher than in plasma , due to the lower albumin content in synovial fluid as compared to plasma .
The significance of this penetration is unknown .
Metabolism Meloxicam is extensively metabolized in the liver .
Meloxicam metabolites include 5 ' - carboxy meloxicam ( 60 % of dose ) , from P - 450 mediated metabolism formed by oxidation of an intermediate metabolite 5 ' - hydroxymethyl meloxicam which is also excreted to a lesser extent ( 9 % of dose ) .
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2C9 ( cytochrome P450 metabolizing enzyme ) plays an important role in this metabolic pathway with a minor contribution of the CYP3A4 isozyme .
Patients ’ peroxidase activity is probably responsible for the other two metabolites which account for 16 % and 4 % of the administered dose , respectively .
All the four metabolites are not known to have any in vivo pharmacological activity .
Excretion Meloxicam excretion is predominantly in the form of metabolites , and occurs to equal extents in the urine and feces .
Only traces of the unchanged parent compound are excreted in the urine ( 0 . 2 % ) and feces ( 1 . 6 % ) .
The extent of the urinary excretion was confirmed for unlabeled multiple 7 . 5 mg doses : 0 . 5 % , 6 % , and 13 % of the dose were found in urine in the form of meloxicam , and the 5 ' - hydroxymethyl and 5 ' - carboxy metabolites , respectively .
There is significant biliary and / or enteral secretion of the drug .
This was demonstrated when oral administration of cholestyramine following a single IV dose of meloxicam decreased the AUC of meloxicam by 50 % .
The mean elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) ranges from 15 hours to 20 hours .
The elimination half - life is constant across dose levels indicating linear metabolism within the therapeutic dose range .
Plasma clearance ranges from 7 to 9 mL / min .
Special Populations Geriatric : Elderly males ( ≥ 65 years of age ) exhibited meloxicam plasma concentrations and steady - state pharmacokinetics similar to young males .
Elderly females ( ≥ 65 years of age ) had a 47 % higher AUCss and 32 % higher Cmax , ss as compared to younger females ( ≤ 55 years of age ) after body weight normalization .
Despite the increased total concentrations in the elderly females , the adverse event profile was comparable for both elderly patient populations .
A smaller free fraction was found in elderly female patients in comparison to elderly male patients .
Gender : Young females exhibited slightly lower plasma concentrations relative to young males .
After single doses of 7 . 5 mg meloxicam , the mean elimination half - life was 19 . 5 hours for the female group as compared to 23 . 4 hours for the male group .
At steady state , the data were similar ( 17 . 9 hours vs 21 . 4 hours ) .
This pharmacokinetic difference due to gender is likely to be of little clinical importance .
There was linearity of pharmacokinetics and no appreciable difference in the Cmax or Tmax across genders .
Hepatic Impairment : Following a single 15 mg dose of meloxicam there was no marked difference in plasma concentrations in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class I ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh Class II ) hepatic impairment compared to healthy volunteers .
Protein binding of meloxicam was not affected by hepatic impairment .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class III ) have not been adequately studied [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : Meloxicam pharmacokinetics have been investigated in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment .
Total drug plasma concentrations of meloxicam decreased and total clearance of meloxicam increased with the degree of renal impairment while free AUC values were similar in all groups .
The higher meloxicam clearance in subjects with renal impairment may be due to increased fraction of unbound meloxicam which is available for hepatic metabolism and subsequent excretion .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
Patients with severe renal impairment have not been adequately studied .
The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) and 125 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hemodialysis : Following a single dose of meloxicam , the free Cmax plasma concentrations were higher in patients with renal failure on chronic hemodialysis ( 1 % free fraction ) in comparison to healthy volunteers ( 0 . 3 % free fraction ) .
Hemodialysis did not lower the total drug concentration in plasma ; therefore , additional doses are not necessary after hemodialysis .
Meloxicam is not dialyzable [ See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 6 ) , and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Aspirin : When meloxicam is administered with aspirin ( 1000 mg three times daily ) to healthy volunteers , it tended to increase the AUC ( 10 % ) and Cmax ( 24 % ) of meloxicam .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cholestyramine : Pretreatment for four days with cholestyramine significantly increased the clearance of meloxicam by 50 % .
This resulted in a decrease in t1 / 2 , from 19 . 2 hours to 12 . 5 hours , and a 35 % reduction in AUC .
This suggests the existence of a recirculation pathway for meloxicam in the gastrointestinal tract .
The clinical relevance of this interaction has not been established .
Cimetidine : Concomitant administration of 200 mg cimetidine four times daily did not alter the single - dose pharmacokinetics of 30 mg meloxicam .
Digoxin : Meloxicam 15 mg once daily for 7 days did not alter the plasma concentration profile of digoxin after β - acetyldigoxin administration for 7 days at clinical doses .
In vitro testing found no protein binding drug interaction between digoxin and meloxicam .
Lithium : In a study conducted in healthy subjects , mean pre - dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21 % in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg QD every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Methotrexate : A study in 13 rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) patients evaluated the effects of multiple doses of meloxicam on the pharmacokinetics of methotrexate taken once weekly .
Meloxicam did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of single doses of methotrexate .
In vitro , methotrexate did not displace meloxicam from its human serum binding sites [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
Warfarin : The effect of meloxicam on the anticoagulant effect of warfarin was studied in a group of healthy subjects receiving daily doses of warfarin that produced an INR ( International Normalized Ratio ) between 1 . 2 and 1 . 8 .
In these subjects , meloxicam did not alter warfarin pharmacokinetics and the average anticoagulant effect of warfarin as determined by prothrombin time .
However , one subject showed an increase in INR from 1 . 5 to 2 . 1 .
Caution should be used when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenesis There was no increase in tumor incidence in long - term carcinogenicity studies in rats ( 104 weeks ) and mice ( 99 weeks ) administered meloxicam at oral doses up to 0 . 8 mg / kg / day in rats and up to 8 . 0 mg / kg / day in mice ( up to 0 . 5 - and 2 . 6 - fold , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
Mutagenesis Meloxicam was not mutagenic in an Ames assay , or clastogenic in a chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes and an in vivo micronucleus test in mouse bone marrow .
Impairment of Fertility Meloxicam did not impair male and female fertility in rats at oral doses up to 9 mg / kg / day in males and 5 mg / kg / day in females ( up to 5 . 8 - and 3 . 2 - fold greater , respectively , than the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee and hip was evaluated in a 12 - week , double - blind , controlled trial .
Meloxicam ( 3 . 75 mg , 7 . 5 mg , and 15 mg daily ) was compared to placebo .
The four primary endpoints were investigator ’ s global assessment , patient global assessment , patient pain assessment , and total WOMAC score ( a self - administered questionnaire addressing pain , function , and stiffness ) .
Patients on meloxicam 7 . 5 mg daily and meloxicam 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in each of these endpoints compared with placebo .
The use of meloxicam for the management of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis was evaluated in six double - blind , active - controlled trials outside the U . S . ranging from 4 weeks ’ to 6 months ’ duration .
In these trials , the efficacy of meloxicam , in doses of 7 . 5 mg / day and 15 mg / day , was comparable to piroxicam 20 mg / day and diclofenac SR 100 mg / day and consistent with the efficacy seen in the U . S . trial .
The use of meloxicam for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis was evaluated in a 12 - week , double - blind , controlled multinational trial .
Meloxicam ( 7 . 5 mg , 15 mg , and 22 . 5 mg daily ) was compared to placebo .
The primary endpoint in this study was the ACR20 response rate , a composite measure of clinical , laboratory , and functional measures of RA response .
Patients receiving meloxicam 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg daily showed significant improvement in the primary endpoint compared with placebo .
No incremental benefit was observed with the 22 . 5 mg dose compared to the 15 mg dose .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Meloxicam Tablets USP , are available as a light yellow coloured , round , biconvex tablet plain on one side and debossed with ‘ 7 . 5 ’ on other side containing meloxicam 7 . 5 mg or as a light yellow coloured , oval shaped , biconvex tablets plain on one side and debossed with ‘ 15 ’ on other side containing meloxicam 15 mg .
Meloxicam Tablets USP , 7 . 5 mg are available as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 68180 – 501 – 01 Bottles of 1000 NDC 68180 – 501 – 03 Meloxicam Tablets USP , 15 mg are available as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 68180 – 502 – 01 Bottles of 1000 NDC 68180 – 502 – 03 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep meloxicam tablets in a dry place .
Dispense tablets in a tight container .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved Medication Guide Patients should be informed of the following information before initiating therapy with an NSAID and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy .
17 . 1 Medication Guide Inform patients of the availability of a Medication Guide for NSAIDs that accompanies each prescription dispensed , and instruct them to read the Medication Guide prior to using meloxicam tablets .
17 . 2 Cardiovascular Effects NSAIDs including meloxicam tablets may cause serious CV side effects , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Gastrointestinal Effects NSAIDs including meloxicam tablet , can cause GI discomfort and , rarely , serious GI side effects , such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 4 Hepatotoxicity Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flu - like " symptoms ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to stop therapy and seek immediate medical therapy [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 5 Adverse Skin Reactions NSAIDs including meloxicam tablets , can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious skin reactions may occur without warning , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms .
Advise patients to stop the drug immediately if they develop any type of rash and contact their physicians as soon as possible [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
17 . 6 Weight Gain and Edema Advise patients to promptly report signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema to their physicians [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . , difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
Instruct patients to seek immediate emergency help [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 8 Effects During Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation , meloxicam tablet should be avoided as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 9 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa 403 722 INDIA Revised : January , 2011 ID # : 223312 Meloxicam Tablets USP 7 . 5 mg and 15 mg Rx Only Medication Guide for Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance increases : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a " coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . "
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called " corticosteroids " and " anticoagulants " • longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant .
NSAID medicines should not be used by pregnant women late in their pregnancy .
• if you are breastfeeding .
Talk to your doctor .
What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Other side effects include : • stomach pain • constipation • diarrhea • gas • heartburn • nausea • vomiting • dizziness Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • weakness in one part or side of your body • slurred speech • swelling of the face or throat Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - thecounter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
• NSAID medicines that need a prescription Generic Name Tradename Celecoxib Celebrex Diclofenac Cataflam , Voltaren , Arthrotec ( combined with misoprostol ) Diflunisal Dolobid Etodolac Lodine , Lodine XL Fenoprofen Nalfon , Nalfon 200 Flurbiprofen Ansaid Ibuprofen Motrin , Tab - Profen , Vicoprofen ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ( combined with oxycodone ) Indomethacin Indocin , Indocin SR , Indo - Lemmon , Indomethagan Ketoprofen Oruvail Ketorolac Toradol Mefenamic Acid Ponstel Meloxicam Mobic Nabumetone Relafen Naproxen Naprosyn , Anaprox , Anaprox DS , EC - Naprosyn , Naprelan , Naprapac ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaprozin Daypro Piroxicam Feldene Sulindac Clinoril Tolmetin Tolectin , Tolectin DS , Tolectin 600 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa 403 722 INDIA Revised : September , 2010 ID # : 222855 10544 - 251 - 30 Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
