Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray ( nitroglycerin lingual spray ) 400 mcg per spray , 60 or 200 Metered Sprays Before using your Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray ( nitroglycerin lingual spray ) 400 mcg per spray , 60 or 200 metered sprays , read carefully the following directions for use .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray is a metered dose spray which delivers 48 mg of solution containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin with each spray .
Nitroglycerin is absorbed from the tongue and surrounding mucosa producing a prompt therapeutic effect .
It is best to use Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray in a sitting position .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT How to Use Nitrolingual Pumpspray Before using this product for the first time , the pump must be sprayed 5 times into the air ( this is known as priming ) .
The pump should be primed every 6 weeks to remain ready for use .
If the product has not been used for 6 weeks , a prime of 1 spray is necessary .
• Remove the plastic cover .
• DO NOT SHAKE .
• Hold the container upright with forefinger on top of the grooved button .
• Open the mouth and bring the container as close to it as possible .
• Press the button firmly with the forefinger to release the spray onto or under the tongue .
DO NOT INHALE THE SPRAY .
• Release button and close mouth .
Avoid swallowing immediately after administering the spray .
The medication should not be expectorated or the mouth rinsed for 5 to 10 minutes following administration .
• If you require a second administration to obtain relief , repeat steps 4 , 5 , and 6 .
• Replace the plastic cover .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NOTE : To familiarize yourself with the product and while priming the container , actuate the spray into the air ( away from yourself and others ) .
Get the feel of your finger resting on the grooved button so that you can use the spray in the dark .
DO NOT SHAKE the container before use .
You may wish to keep additional pumpspray containers handy in convenient locations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosage During an anginal attack , one or two sprays should be administered into your mouth , preferably onto or under the tongue .
Do not inhale spray .
The medication should not be expectorated or the mouth rinsed for 5 to 10 minutes following administration .
A spray may be repeated approximately every 3 - 5 minutes as needed .
No more than three metered sprays are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If chest pain persists , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray may be used 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities which might provoke an acute attack .
There are approximately 60 or 200 metered sprays of nitroglycerin per Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray bottle .
However , the number of times the medication may be used is dependent on the number of sprays per use ( 1 or 2 sprays ) , and frequency of repriming .
Each metered spray of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray delivers 400 mcg of nitroglycerin after an initial priming of 5 sprays . The container will remain adequately primed for 6 weeks .
If the medication is not used within 6 weeks , it can be adequately reprimed with 1 spray .
Longer storage periods without use may require up to 5 repriming sprays .
Precaution Your physician has determined that this product is likely to help your personal health .
USE THIS PRODUCT AS DIRECTED , BY YOUR PHYSICIAN .
If you have any questions about alternatives , consult with your physician .
Do not share or give your medication to others , particularly those who may appear to be having chest discomfort similar to yours .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray should be used during an episode of chest pain or may be used 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities which might provoke an acute attack .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray is available in a clear glass bottle with a red plastic coating on the exterior .
This plastic coating is designed to contain the glass and medication should the bottIe be shattered .
The transparent container can be used for continuous monitoring of the consumption .
The end of the pump should be covered by the fluid level .
Once fluid falls below the level of the center tube , sprays will not be adequate and the container should be replaced .
As with all other sprays , there is a residual volume of fluid at the bottom of the bottle which cannot be used .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray contains 20 % alcohol .
Do not forcefully open or burn container .
Do not spray toward flames .
Keep in a safe place and out of the reach of chiIdren .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for FIRST HORIZON PHARMACEUTICAL ® CORPORATION , Alpharetta , GA 30005 by G . Pohl - Boskamp GmbH & Co . , D - 25551 Hohenlockstedt , Germany .
DESCRIPTION : Nitroglycerin , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilator which has effects on both arteries and veins .
The chemical name for nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate ( C3H5N3O9 ) .
The compound has a molecular weight of 227 . 09 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray ( nitroglycerin lingual spray 400 mcg ) is a metered dose spray containing nitroglycerin .
This product delivers nitroglycerin ( 400 mcg per spray , 60 or 200 metered sprays ) in the form of spray droplets onto or under the tongue .
Inactive ingredients : medium - chain triglycerides , dehydrated alcohol , medium - chain partial glycerides , peppermint oil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle , producing a vasodilator effect on both peripheral arteries and veins with more prominent effects on the latter .
Dilation of the post - capillary vessels , including large veins , promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( pre - load ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance and arterial pressure ( after - load ) .
The mechanism by which nitroglycerin relieves angina pectoris is not fully understood .
Myocardial oxygen consumption or demand ( as measured by the pressure - rate product , tension - time index , and stroke - work index ) is decreased by both the arterial and venous effects of nitroglycerin and presumably , a more favorable supply - demand ratio is achieved .
While the large epicardial coronary arteries are also dilated by nitroglycerin , the extent to which this action contributes to relief of exertional angina is unclear .
Nitroglycerin is rapidly metabolized in vivo , with a liver reductase enzyme having primary importance in the formation of glycerol nitrate metabolites and inorganic nitrate .
Two active major metabolites , 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols , the products of hydrolysis , although less potent as vasodilators , have longer plasma half - lives than the parent compound .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to mononitrates ( considered biologically inactive with respect to cardiovascular effects ) and ultimately glycerol and carbon dioxide .
Therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin may reduce systolic , diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure .
Effective coronary perfusion pressure is usually maintained , but can be compromised if blood pressure falls excessively or increased heart rate decreases diastolic filling time .
Elevated central venous and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures , pulmonary vascular resistance and systemic vascular resistance are also reduced by nitroglycerin therapy .
Heart rate is usually slightly increased , presumably a reflex response to the fall in blood pressure .
Cardiac index may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure and systemic vascular resistance values in conjunction with a depressed cardiac index are likely to experience an improvement in cardiac index .
On the other hand , when filling pressures and cardiac index are normal , cardiac index may be slightly reduced .
In a pharmacokinetic study when a single 0 . 8 mg dose of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray was administered to healthy volunteers ( n = 24 ) , the mean Cmax and tmax were 1 , 041 pg / mL • min and 7 . 5 minutes , respectively .
Additionally , in these subjects the mean area - under - the - curve ( AUC ) was 12 , 769 pg / mL • min .
In a randomized , double - blind single - dose , 5 - period cross - over study in 51 patients with exertional angina pectoris significant dose - related increases in exercise tolerance , time to onset of angina and ST - segment depression were seen following doses of 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 , 0 . 8 and 1 . 6 mg of nitroglycerin delivered by metered pumpspray as compared to placebo .
Additionally the drug was well tolerated as evidenced by a profile of generally mild to moderate adverse events .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray is indicated for acute relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Allergic reactions to organic nitrates are rare .
Nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray is contraindicated in patients taking certain drugs for erectile dysfunction ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) , as their concomitant use can cause severe hypotension .
The time course and dose - dependency of this interaction are not known .
WARNINGS : Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray by certain drugs ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) used to treat erectile dysfunction can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The use of any form of nitroglycerin during the early days of acute myocardial infarction requires particular attention to hemodynamic monitoring and clinical status .
PRECAUTIONS : General Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin .
The drug , therefore , should be used with caution in subjects who may have volume depletion from diuretic therapy or in patients who have low systolic blood pressure ( e . g . , below 90 mm Hg ) .
Paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris may accompany nitroglycerin - induced hypotension .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Tolerance to this drug and cross - tolerance to other nitrates and nitrites may occur .
Tolerance to the vascular and anti - anginal effects of nitrates has been demonstrated in clinical trials , experience through occupational exposure , and in isolated tissue experiments in the laboratory .
In industrial workers continuously exposed to nitroglycerin , tolerance clearly occurs .
Moreover , physical dependence also occurs since chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitroglycerin from the workers .
In various clinical trials in angina patients , there are reports of anginal attacks being more easily provoked and of rebound in the hemodynamic effects soon after nitrate withdrawal .
The relative importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of nitroglycerin is not known .
PRECAUTIONS : ( INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS ) Physicians should discuss with patients that Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray should not be used with certain drugs taken for erectile dysfunction ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) because of the risk of lowering their blood pressure dangerously .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Alcohol may enhance sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates .
Nitroglycerin acts directly on vascular muscle .
Therefore , any other agents that depend on vascular smooth muscle as the final common path can be expected to have decreased or increased effect depending upon the agent .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and oral controlled - release nitroglycerin were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
Concomitant use of nitric oxide donors ( like Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray ) and certain drugs for the treatment of erectile dysfunction ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) can amplify their vasodilatory effects , resulting in severe hypotension .
The concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) and alternative therapies should be used to treat acute angina episodes .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Animal carcinogenesis studies with sublingual nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs . 0 % in controls , and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs . 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , p . o . , or in in vitro cytogenic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for six months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
PREGNANCY : Pregnancy Category C – Animal teratology studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin - pumpspray .
Teratology studies in rats and rabbits , however , were conducted with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No toxic effects on dams or fetuses were seen at any dose tested .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness of nitroglycerin in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions to oral nitroglycerin dosage forms , particularly headache and hypotension , are generally dose - related .
In clinical trials at various doses of nitroglycerin , the following adverse effects have been observed : Headache , which may be severe and persistent , is the most commonly reported side effect of nitroglycerin with an incidence on the order of about 50 % in some studies .
Cutaneous vasodilation with flushing may occur .
Transient episodes of dizziness and weakness , as well as other signs of cerebral ischemia associated with postural hypotension , may occasionally develop .
Occasionally , an individual may exhibit marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates and severe responses ( nausea , vomiting , weakness , restlessness , pallor , perspiration and collapse ) may occur even with therapeutic doses .
Drug rash and / or exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy .
Nausea and vomiting appear to be uncommon .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray given to 51 chronic stable angina patients in single doses of 0 . 4 , 0 . 8 and 1 . 6 mg as part of a double - blind , 5 - period single - dose cross - over study exhibited an adverse event profile that was generally mild to moderate .
Adverse events occurring at a frequency greater than 2 % included : headache , dizziness , and paresthesia .
Less frequently reported events in this trial included ( ≤ 2 % ) : dyspnea , pharyngitis , rhinitis , vasodilation , peripheral edema , asthenia , and abdominal pain .
OVERDOSAGE : Signs and Symptoms : Nitrate overdosage may result in : severe hypotension , persistent throbbing headache , vertigo , palpitation , visual disturbance , flushing and perspiring skin ( later becoming cold and cyanotic ) , nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) , syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) , methemoglobinemia with cyanosis and anorexia , initial hyperpnea , dyspnea and slow breathing , slow pulse ( dicrotic and intermittent ) , heart block , increased intracranial pressure with cerebral symptoms of confusion and moderate fever , paralysis and coma followed by clonic convulsions , and possibly death due to circulatory collapse .
Methemoglobinemia : Case reports of clinically significant methemoglobinemia are rare at conventional doses of organic nitrates .
The formation of methemoglobin is dose - related and in the case of genetic abnormalities of hemoglobin that favor methemoglobin formation , even conventional doses of organic nitrates could produce harmful concentrations of methemoglobin .
Treatment of Overdosage : Keep the patient recumbent in a shock position and comfortably warm .
Passive movement of the extremities may aid venous return .
Administer oxygen and artificial ventilation , if necessary .
If methemoglobinemia is present , administration of methylene blue ( 1 % solution ) , 1 - 2 mg per kilogram of body weight intravenously , may be required .
If an excessive quantity of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray has been recently swallowed gastric lavage may be of use .
WARNING : Epinephrine is ineffective in reversing the severe hypotensive events associated with overdosage .
It and related compounds are contraindicated in this situation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : At the onset of an attack , one or two metered sprays should be administered onto or under the tongue .
No more than three metered sprays are recommended within a 15 - minute period .
If the chest pain persists , prompt medical attention is recommended .
Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray may be used prophylactically five to ten minutes prior to engaging in activities which might precipitate an acute attack .
Each metered spray of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray delivers 48 mg of solution containing 400 mcg of nitroglycerin after an initial priming of 5 sprays .
It will remain adequately primed for 6 weeks . If the product is not used within 6 weeks it can be adequately reprimed with 1 spray .
Longer storage periods without use may require up to 5 repriming sprays .
There are 60 or 200 metered sprays per bottle .
The total number of available doses is dependent , however , on the number of sprays per use ( 1 or 2 sprays ) , and the frequency of repriming .
The transparent container can be used for continuous monitoring of the consumption .
The end of the pump should be covered by the fluid level .
Once fluid falls below the level of the center tube , sprays will not be adequate and the container should be replaced .
As with all other sprays , there is a residual volume of fluid at the bottom of the bottle which cannot be used .
During application the patient should rest , ideally in the sitting position .
The container should be held vertically with the valve head uppermost and the spray orifice as close to the mouth as possible .
The dose should preferably be sprayed onto the tongue by pressing the button firmly and the mouth should be closed immediately after each dose .
THE SPRAY SHOULD NOT BE INHALED .
The medication should not be expectorated or the mouth rinsed for 5 to 10 minutes following administration .
Patients should be instructed to familiarize themselves with the position of the spray orifice , which can be identified by the finger rest on top of the valve , in order to facilitate orientation for administration at night .
HOW SUPPLIED : Each box of Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray , contains one clear glass bottle coated with red transparent plastic which assists in containing the glass and medication should the bottle be shattered .
Each unit contains 4 . 9 g ( NDC 59630 - 300 - 65 ) or 12 g ( NDC 59630 - 300 - 20 ) ( Net Content ) of nitroglycerin lingual spray which will deliver 60 or 200 metered sprays containing 400 mcgs of nitroglycerin per spray after priming .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Note : Nitrolingual ® Pumpspray contains 20 % alcohol .
Do not forcefully open or burn container after use .
Do not spray toward flames .
Rx Only .
Manufactured for FIRST HORIZON PHARMACEUTICAL ® CORPORATION , Alpharetta , GA 30005 by G . Pohl - Boskamp GmbH & Co . , D - 25551 Hohenlockstedt , Germany .
NLPS - PI - 2 Rev . 10 / 05
