DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid designed chemically as pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11ß ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each suppository for rectal administration contains hydrocortisone acetate , USP 25 mg in a specially blended hydrogenated vegetable base .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In normal subjects , about 26 % of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post - irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of anorectum , and pruritus ani .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients having a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate or any of the components .
PRECAUTIONS Do not use hydrocortisone acetate suppositories unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , hydrocortisone acetate should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenesis No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Staining of fabric may occur with use of the suppository .
Precautionary measures are recommended .
PREGNANCY CATEGORY C In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk of the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocortisone acetate suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories ; burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection .
To report an adverse event , please contact Rising Pharma Holdings , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 874 - 7464 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Drug abuse and dependence have not been reported in patients treated with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
OVERDOSAGE If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For rectal administration .
Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories .
Hold suppository upright .
Separate tabs at top opening and pull downward from the pointed end .
Continue pulling downward to almost the full length of the suppository .
Carefully remove the suppository from the pocket .
Avoid excessive handling of the suppository which is designed to melt at body temperature .
Insert suppository into the rectum with gentle pressure , pointed end first .
Insert one suppository in the rectum twice daily , morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times a day or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , the recommended duration of therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories 25 mg are white to off - white , smooth surfaced and bullet shaped with one pointed end .
Box of 12 suppositories , NDC 16571 - 676 - 21 Box of 24 suppositories , NDC 16571 - 676 - 42 STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Store away from heat .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid contact with eyes .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Rx Only Distributed by : Rising Pharma Holdings , Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Manufactured by : Quagen Pharmaceuticals LLC West Caldwell , NJ 07006 52030 Rev . 01 / 21 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rising ® NDC 16571 - 676 - 21 Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 25 mg For Rectal Administration 12 Adult Suppositories Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rising ® NDC 16571 - 676 - 42 Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 25 mg For Rectal Administration 24 Adult Suppositories Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
