Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 11 / 2019 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) 11 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is indicated to improve glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus .
HUMALOG ® Mix75 / 25 ™ is a mixture of insulin lispro protamine , an intermediate - acting human insulin analog , and insulin lispro , a rapid - acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : The proportions of rapid - acting and intermediate - acting insulins are fixed and do not allow for basal versus prandial dose adjustments .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : The proportions of rapid - acting and intermediate - acting insulins in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 are fixed and do not allow for basal versus prandial dose adjustments .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 1 ) • Inject subcutaneously in abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks and rotate injection sites to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 1 ) • Individualize and adjust dosage based on metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 2 ) • Inject HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 subcutaneously within 15 minutes before a meal .
( 2 . 2 ) • Do not administer HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 intravenously or by a continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump .
( 2 . 1 ) • HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is typically dosed twice daily ( with each dose intended to cover 2 meals or a meal and a snack ) .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Always check insulin labels before administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is a suspension that must be resuspended immediately before use .
Resuspension is easier when the insulin has reached room temperature .
• To resuspend vial , carefully invert the vial at least 10 times until the suspension appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Inject immediately .
• To resuspend KwikPen , gently roll the KwikPen at least 10 times and then carefully invert the Kwikpen at least 10 times until the suspension appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Inject immediately .
• Inspect HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 visually before use .
Do not use if discoloration or particulate matter is seen .
• Administer HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 by subcutaneous injection into the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks .
• Rotate the injection site within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• The HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen dials in 1 unit increments .
• Use HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen with caution in patients with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose .
• Do not administer HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 intravenously , intramuscularly or by a continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump .
• Do not mix HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 with any other insulins or diluents .
2 . 2 Dosage Information • Individualize and adjust the dosage of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 based on the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
• Inject HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 subcutaneously within 15 minutes before a meal .
• HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is typically dosed twice - daily ( with each dose intended to cover 2 meals or a meal and a snack ) • Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
2 . 3 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions • Dosage adjustment may be needed when HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is coadministered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 injectable suspension 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) is 75 % insulin lispro protamine and 25 % insulin lispro , a white and cloudy suspension available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL single - patient - use KwikPen ( prefilled ) Injectable suspension : HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) , 75 % insulin lispro protamine and 25 % insulin lispro available as : ( 3 ) • 10 mL multiple - dose vial • 3 mL single - patient - use KwikPen ® ( prefilled ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is contraindicated : • during episodes of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or to any of its excipients .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or any of its excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share a HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring with changes to insulin dosage , co - administered glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; and in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur .
Discontinue HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reductions or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Never Share a HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPens must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to an unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , dosage adjustments of concomitant anti - diabetic products may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with all insulin therapies , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may lead to unconsciousness , may be life - threatening , or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulin preparations , the glucose lowering effect time course of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and other insulin products have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or any of its excipients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulin products , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Medication Errors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Adverse reactions observed with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , weight gain , edema , pruritus , and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies or Postmarketing Reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - marketing use of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions associated with insulin initiation and glucose control intensification Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
Over the long - term , improved glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Hypersensitivity reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis .
Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Hypokalemia HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 can cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Injection site reactions HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 can cause local injection site reactions including redness , swelling , or itching at the site of injection .
These reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks , but in some occasions , may require discontinuation .
Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have been reported with the use of meta - cresol , which is an excipient in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Lipodystrophy Administration of insulin subcutaneously , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , has resulted in lipoatrophy ( depression in the skin ) or lipohypertrophy ( enlargement or thickening of tissue ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] in some patients .
Localized cutaneous amyloidosis Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
Medication Errors Medication errors in which other insulins have been accidentally substituted for HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 have been identified during postapproval use .
Peripheral Edema Insulin , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Weight gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapy , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glycosuria .
Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic peptides , insulin administration may cause anti - insulin antibodies to form .
The incidence of antibody formation with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is unknown .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 Drugs : Atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 Drugs : Alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Intervention : Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is co - administered with these drugs .
Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia Drugs : Beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
Intervention : Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is co - administered with these drugs .
• Drugs that may increase the risk of hypoglycemia : antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , salicylates , somatostatin analog ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
( 7 ) • Drugs that may decrease the blood glucose lowering effect : atypical antipsychotics , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) , and thyroid hormones .
( 7 ) • Drugs that may increase or decrease the blood glucose lowering effect : alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and pentamidine .
( 7 ) • Drugs that may blunt the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia : beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Published studies with insulin lispro used during pregnancy have not reported an association between insulin lispro and the induction of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Pregnant rats and rabbits were exposed to insulin lispro in animal reproduction studies during organogenesis .
No adverse effects on embryo / fetal viability or morphology were observed in offspring of rats exposed to insulin lispro at a dose approximately 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day .
No adverse effects on embryo / fetal development were observed in offspring of rabbits exposed to insulin lispro at doses up to approximately 0 . 2 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , still birth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from retrospective studies and meta - analyses do not report an association with insulin lispro and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when insulin lispro is used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish or exclude the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations including small sample size , selection bias , confounding by unmeasured factors , and some lacking comparator groups .
Animal Data Animal reproduction studies have not been performed with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
However , subcutaneous reproduction and teratology studies have been conducted with insulin lispro ( a component of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ) .
In a combined fertility and embryo - fetal development study , female rats were given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 1 , 5 , and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) from 2 weeks prior to cohabitation through Gestation Day 19 .
There were no adverse effects on female fertility , implantation , or fetal viability and morphology .
However , fetal growth retardation was produced at the 20 units / kg / day - dose as indicated by decreased fetal weight and an increased incidence of fetal runts / litter .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits , insulin lispro doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 75 unit / kg / day ( 0 . 03 , 0 . 08 , and 0 . 2 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) were injected subcutaneously on Gestation days 7 through 19 .
There were no adverse effects on fetal viability , weight , and morphology at any dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
One small published study reported that exogenous insulin was present in human milk .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for insulin , any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 in patients less than 18 years of age has not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Humalog Mix75 / 25 did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
In elderly patients with diabetes , the initial dosing , dose increments , and maintenance dosage should be conservative to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has not been studied .
Patients with renal impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 dose adjustment and more frequent glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has not been studied .
Patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 dose adjustment and more frequent glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ( insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension ) is a mixture of 75 % insulin lispro protamine , an intermediate - acting human insulin analog , and 25 % insulin lispro , a rapid - acting human insulin analog .
Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli .
Insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline .
Chemically , it is Lys ( B28 ) , Pro ( B29 ) human insulin analog and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 and a molecular weight of 5808 , both identical to that of human insulin .
Insulin lispro protamine suspension is a suspension of crystals produced from combining insulin lispro and protamine sulfate under appropriate conditions for crystal formation .
Insulin lispro has the following primary structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 vials and KwikPens contain a white and cloudy , sterile suspension of insulin lispro protamine suspension mixed with soluble insulin lispro for use as an injection .
Each milliliter of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 injection contains insulin lispro 100 units , 0 . 28 mg protamine sulfate , 16 mg glycerin , 3 . 78 mg dibasic sodium phosphate , 1 . 76 mg Metacresol , zinc oxide content adjusted to provide 0 . 025 mg zinc ion , 0 . 715 mg phenol , and Water for Injection .
The pH is 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
Sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid may be added during manufacture to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of insulin , including HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis , and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a glucose clamp study performed in 30 healthy subjects , the onset of action and glucose - lowering activity of HUMALOG , HUMALOG ® Mix50 / 50 ™ , HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , and insulin lispro protamine suspension ( ILPS ) were compared ( see Figure 1 ) .
Graphs of mean glucose infusion rate versus time showed a distinct insulin activity profile for each formulation .
The rapid onset of glucose - lowering activity characteristic of HUMALOG was maintained in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
The median maximum pharmacologic effect of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 after administration of a 0 . 3 unit / kg dose to healthy subjects occurred at approximately 2 hours ( range : 1 - 6 hours ) ; glucose lowering activity was detectable for a median of 22 hours ( range : 13 to 22 hours ) , which was the end of the clamp .
In separate glucose clamp studies performed in healthy subjects , pharmacodynamics of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and HUMULIN ® 70 / 30 were assessed and are presented in Figure 2 .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has a duration of activity similar to that of HUMULIN 70 / 30 .
Figures 1 and 2 should be considered only as representative examples since the time course of action of insulin and insulin analogs , may vary in different individuals or within the same individual .
Figure 1 : Mean Insulin Activity Versus Time Profiles After Injection of 0 . 3 units / kg of HUMALOG , HUMALOG Mix50 / 50 , HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , or Insulin Lispro Protamine Suspension ( ILPS ) in 30 Healthy Subjects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Mean Insulin Activity Versus Time Profiles After Injection of 0 . 3 units / kg of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or HUMULIN 70 / 30 in Healthy Subjects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption — HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has two phases of absorption .
The early phase represents insulin lispro and its distinct characteristics of rapid onset .
The late phase represents the prolonged absorption of insulin lispro protamine suspension .
In 31 healthy subjects given subcutaneous doses ( 0 . 3 unit / kg ) of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , the median peak serum concentration was 60 minutes ( range : 30 minutes to 4 hours ) after dosing .
Identical results were found in patients with type 1 diabetes .
The rapid absorption characteristics of HUMALOG are maintained with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has a more rapid absorption than HUMULIN 70 / 30 , which has been confirmed in patients with type 1 diabetes .
Metabolism — Human metabolism studies of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 have not been conducted .
However , studies in animals indicate that the metabolism of HUMALOG , the rapid - acting component of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , is identical to that of regular human insulin .
Elimination — Because of the absorption - rate limited kinetics of insulin mixtures , a true half - life cannot be accurately estimated from the terminal slope of the concentration versus time curve .
Specific Populations The effects of age , race , obesity , pregnancy , smoking , or renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 have not been studied .
Gender — Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic comparisons between men and women administered HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 showed no gender differences .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
In Fischer 344 rats , a 12 - month repeat - dose toxicity study was conducted with insulin lispro ( a component of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ) at subcutaneous doses of 20 and 200 units / kg / day ( approximately 3 and 32 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) .
Insulin lispro did not produce important target organ toxicity including mammary tumors at any dose .
Insulin lispro was not mutagenic in the following genetic toxicity assays : bacterial mutation , unscheduled DNA synthesis , mouse lymphoma , chromosomal aberration and micronucleus assays .
Male fertility was not compromised when male rats given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 5 and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 8 and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) for 6 months were mated with untreated female rats .
In a combined fertility , perinatal , and postnatal study in male and female rats given 1 , 5 , and 20 units / kg / day subcutaneously ( 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit insulin lispro / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) , mating and fertility were not adversely affected in either gender at any dose .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 injectable suspension 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) is 75 % insulin lispro protamine and 25 % insulin lispro , a white and cloudy suspension available as : 10 mL multiple - dose vial NDC 0002 - 7511 - 01 3 mL single - patient - use KwikPen ( prefilled ) NDC 0002 - 8797 - 59 HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPens must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Always use a new disposable syringe or needle for each injection to prevent contamination .
The HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen dials in 1 unit increments .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use .
Do not use after the expiration date .
Protect from direct heat and light .
Do not freeze .
See storage table below : Not In - Use ( Unopened ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° to 46 ° F [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ] ) Not In Use ( unopened ) Room Temperature ( Below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) In - Use ( Opened ) Room Temperature , ( Below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) 10 mL multiple - dose vial Until expiration date 28 days 28 days , refrigerated / room temperature 3 mL single - patient - use KwikPen Until expiration date 10 days 10 days , room temperature .
Do not refrigerate .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share a HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen or Syringe Between Patients Advise patients using Humalog Mix75 / 25 vials or Humalog Mix75 / 25 KwikPen not to share needles , syringes , or KwikPen with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction with insulin .
Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia due to Medication Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection to avoid mix - ups between insulin products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and to seek medical attention if they occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LOG7525 - 0005 - USPI - 20191115 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : November 2019 Patient Information HUMALOG ® ( HU - ma - log ) Mix75 / 25 ™ ( insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension ) for subcutaneous use Do not share your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen , needles or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
What is HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
• HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is a man - made insulin that is used to control high blood sugar in people with diabetes mellitus .
• It is not known if HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
Do not take HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 or any of the ingredients in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Humalog Mix75 / 25 .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Humalog Mix75 / 25 ?
Before taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take any other medicines , especially ones called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar if you plan to become pregnant or while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Before you start taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I take HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
• Read the Instructions for Use that comes with your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
• Take HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 to take and when to take it .
• HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 starts acting fast .
Inject HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 within 15 minutes before you eat a meal .
• Know the type , strength , and amount of insulin you take .
Do not change the type or amount of insulin you take unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take different types of insulin .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are taking the correct insulin .
• Inject HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Do not inject HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 into your vein ( intravenously ) or muscle ( intramuscularly ) or use in an insulin infusion pump .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not mix HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 with other insulins or liquids .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Your dose of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 may need to change because of a : • change in physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
While taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 affects you .
• drink alcohol or take prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • dizziness or light - headedness • sweating • confusion • headache • blurred vision • slurred speech • shakiness • fast heartbeat • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • hunger Your healthcare provider may prescribe a glucagon emergency kit so that someone else can give you glucagon if your blood sugar becomes too low ( severe hypoglycemia ) and you are unable to take sugar by mouth .
• severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body • trouble breathing • a fast heartbeat • sweating • low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath • swelling of your ankles or feet • sudden weight gain Treatment with TZDs and HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing • shortness of breath • fast heartbeat • swelling of your face , tongue , or throat • sweating • extreme drowsiness • dizziness • confusion The most common side effects of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) • reactions at your injection site • skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) • weight gain • swelling in your hands or feet • itching • rash These are not all the possible side effects of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
Active ingredients : insulin lispro Inactive ingredients : protamine sulfate , glycerin , dibasic sodium phosphate , metacresol , zinc oxide ( zinc ion ) , phenol and water for injection .
Humalog ® , Humalog ® Mix75 / 25 ™ and Humalog ® Mix75 / 25 ™ KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . humalog . com or call 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 .
LOG7525 - 0003 - PPI - 20191115 Instructions for Use HUMALOG ® ( HU - ma - log ) Mix75 / 25 ™ ( insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension ) for subcutaneous use 10 mL multiple - dose vial ( 100 units / mL ) Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and each time you get a new vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your needles or syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection • a multiple - dose HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • gauze • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See “ Disposing of used needles and syringes ” at the end of these instructions .
Vial Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preparing your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 dose • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check the HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is easier to mix when it is at room temperature .
• After mixing HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , inject your dose right away .
If you wait to inject your dose , the insulin will need to be mixed again .
• Always use a new syringe and needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : Gently roll the vial between the palms of your hands at least 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Gently move the vial up and down ( invert ) at least 10 times .
Mixing is important to make sure you get the right dose .
Humalog Mix75 / 25 should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use it if it looks clear or contains any lumps or particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : If you are using a new vial , pull off the plastic Protective Cap , but do not remove the Rubber Stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Wipe the Rubber Stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Remove the Needle Shield from the syringe by pulling the Needle Shield straight off .
Hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
Pull down on the Plunger until the Plunger Tip reaches the line for the number of units for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 6 : Push the needle through the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Push the Plunger all the way in .
This puts air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the Plunger down until the Plunger Tip is a few units past the line for your prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units Plunger Tip is shown at 24 units ) If there are air bubbles , tap the syringe gently a few times to let any air bubbles rise to the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Slowly push the Plunger up until the Plunger Tip reaches the line for your prescribed dose .
Check the syringe to make sure that you have the right dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example Dose : 20 units shown ) Step 10 : Pull the syringe out of the Rubber Stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Giving your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 Injection • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you should pinch the skin before injecting .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
Step 11 : Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area ( abdomen ) , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Insert the needle into your skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Push down on the Plunger to inject your dose .
The needle should stay in your skin for at least 5 seconds to make sure you have injected all of your insulin dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : Pull the needle out of your skin .
• If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle stick injury .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of used needles and syringes • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 ?
All unopened vials : • Store all unopened vials in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use if HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has been frozen .
• Keep away from heat and out of direct light .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label , if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 28 days , if they are stored at room temperature .
After vials have been opened : • Store opened vials in the refrigerator or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 28 days .
• Keep vials away from heat and out of direct light .
• Throw away all opened vials after 28 days of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
Keep HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 vials , syringes , needles , and all medicines out of the reach of children .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - Lilly - Rx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch the humalog . com website This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Humalog ® and Humalog ® Mix75 / 25 ™ are registered trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : 11 / 2019 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC , Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 1999 , 2019 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
LOG7525VL - 0002 - IFU - 20191115 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use HUMALOG ® ( HU - ma - log ) Mix75 / 25 ™ KwikPen ® ( insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension ) for subcutaneous use 3 mL single - patient - use pen ( 100 units / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 and each time you get another KwikPen .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen ( “ Pen ” ) is a disposable single - patient - use prefilled pen containing 300 units of HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 .
• You can give yourself more than 1 dose from the Pen .
• By turning the Dose Knob , you can dial doses from 1 to 60 units in 1 unit increments .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give yourself more than 1 injection .
• The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
The Plunger will only reach the end of the cartridge when you have used all 300 units in the Pen .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use this Pen without help from a person trained to use the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to recognize your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen • Pen color : Dark blue • Dose Knob : Dark blue • Labels : White label with yellow stripe Supplies you will need to give your injection • HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen • KwikPen compatible Needle ( Becton , Dickinson and Company Pen Needles recommended ) • Alcohol swab • Gauze Preparing your Pen • Wash your hands with soap and water .
• Check your Pen to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Always use a new needle for each injection to help prevent infections and blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : • Pull the Pen Cap straight off .
• - Do not remove the Pen Label .
• Wipe the Rubber Seal with an alcohol swab .
• - Do not attach the Needle before mixing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : • Gently roll the Pen between your hands at least 10 times .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : • Move the Pen up and down ( invert ) at least 10 times .
Mixing by rolling and inverting the Pen is important to make sure you get the right dose .
After mixing HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 , inject your dose right away .
If you wait to inject your dose , the insulin will need to be mixed again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : • Check the liquid in the Pen .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 should look white and cloudy after mixing .
Do not use if it looks clear or has any lumps or particles in it .
Step 5 : • Select a new Needle .
• Pull off the Paper Tab from the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : • Push the capped Needle straight onto the Pen and twist the Needle on until it is tight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : • Pull off the Outer Needle Shield .
Do not throw it away .
• Pull off the Inner Needle Shield and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Priming your Pen Prime your Pen before each injection .
• Priming your Pen means removing the air from the Needle and Cartridge that may collect during normal use and ensures that the Pen is working correctly .
• If you do not prime before each injection , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Step 8 : • To prime your Pen , turn the Dose Knob to select 2 units .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : • Hold your Pen with the Needle pointing up .
Tap the Cartridge Holder gently to collect air bubbles at the top .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : • Continue holding your Pen with Needle pointing up .
Push the Dose Knob in until it stops , and “ 0 ” is seen in the Dose Window .
Hold the Dose Knob in and count to 5 slowly .
• You should see insulin at the tip of the Needle .
• - If you do not see insulin , repeat priming steps 8 to 10 , no more than 4 times .
• - If you still do not see insulin , change the Needle and repeat priming steps 8 to 10 .
Small air bubbles are normal and will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Selecting your dose • You can give from 1 to 60 units in a single injection .
• If your dose is more than 60 units , you will need to give more than one injection .
• - If you need help with dividing up your dose the right way , ask your healthcare provider .
• - Use a new Needle for each injection and repeat the priming steps .
Step 11 : • Turn the Dose Knob to select the number of units you need to inject .
The Dose Indicator should line up with your dose .
• - The Pen dials 1 unit at a time .
• - The Dose Knob clicks as you turn it .
• - Do not dial your dose by counting the clicks .
You may dial the wrong dose .
This may lead to you getting too much insulin or not enough insulin .
• - The dose can be corrected by turning the Dose Knob in either direction until the correct dose lines up with the Dose Indicator .
• - The even numbers ( for example , 12 ) are printed on the dial .
• - The odd numbers , ( for example , 25 ) after the number 1 , are shown as full lines .
• Always check the number in the Dose Window to make sure you have dialed the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 12 units shown in the Dose Window ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Example : 25 units shown in the Dose Window ) • The Pen will not let you dial more than the number of units left in the Pen .
• If you need to inject more than the number of units left in the Pen , you may either : • - inject the amount left in your Pen and then use a new Pen to give the rest of your dose , or • - get a new Pen and inject the full dose .
• It is normal to see a small amount of insulin left in the Pen that you can not inject .
Giving your injection • Inject your insulin as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Do not try to change your dose while injecting .
Step 12 : • Choose your injection site .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your stomach area , buttocks , upper legs or upper arms .
• Wipe your skin with an alcohol swab , and let your skin dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : • Insert the Needle into your skin .
• Push the Dose Knob all the way in .
• Continue to hold the Dose Knob in and slowly count to 5 before removing the Needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not try to inject your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
You will not receive your insulin by turning the Dose Knob .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 14 : • Pull the Needle out of your skin .
A drop of insulin at the Needle tip is normal .
It will not affect your dose .
• Check the number in the Dose Window .
• - If you see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , you have received the full amount you dialed .
• - If you do not see “ 0 ” in the Dose Window , do not redial .
Insert the Needle into your skin and finish your injection .
• - If you still do not think you received the full amount you dialed for your injection , do not start over or repeat the injection .
Monitor your blood glucose as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• - If you normally need to give 2 injections for your full dose , be sure to give your second injection .
The Plunger only moves a little with each injection , and you may not notice that it moves .
If you see blood after you take the Needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol swab .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After your injection Step 15 : • Carefully replace the Outer Needle Shield .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 16 : • Unscrew the capped Needle and throw it away ( see Disposing of Pens and Needles section ) .
• Do not store the Pen with the Needle attached to prevent leaking , blocking the Needle , and air from entering the Pen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 17 : • Replace the Pen Cap by lining up the Cap Clip with the Dose Indicator and pushing straight on .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Disposing of Pens and Needles • Put your used needles in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • - made of a heavy - duty plastic , • - can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • - upright and stable during use , • - leak - resistant , and • - properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• The used Pen may be discarded in your household trash after you have removed the needle .
Storing your Pen Unused Pens • Store unused Pens in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze your insulin .
Do not use if HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 has been frozen .
• Unused Pens may be used until the expiration date printed on the Label , if the Pen has been kept in the refrigerator .
• Unused Pens stored at room temperature , below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) , should be thrown away after 10 days .
In - use Pen • Store the Pen you are currently using at room temperature [ up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) ] .
Keep away from heat and light .
• Throw away the HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 Pen you are using after 10 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
General information about the safe and effective use of your Pen • Keep your Pen and needles out of the reach of children .
• Do not use your Pen if any part looks broken or damaged .
• Always carry an extra Pen in case yours is lost or damaged .
Troubleshooting • If you can not remove the Pen Cap , gently twist the cap back and forth , and then pull the cap straight off .
• If the Dose Knob is hard to push : • - Pushing the Dose Knob more slowly will make it easier to inject .
• - Your Needle may be blocked .
Put on a new Needle and prime the Pen .
• - You may have dust , food , or liquid inside the Pen .
Throw the Pen away and get a new Pen .
If you have any questions or problems with your HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen , contact Lilly at 1 - 800 - LillyRx ( 1 - 800 - 545 - 5979 ) or call your healthcare provider for help .
For more information on HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen and insulin , go to www . humalog . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Scan this code to launch www . humalog . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
HUMALOG ® Mix75 / 25 ™ and HUMALOG ® Mix75 / 25 ™ KwikPen ® are trademarks of Eli Lilly and Company .
Revised : April 2020 Marketed by : Lilly USA , LLC Indianapolis , IN 46285 , USA Copyright © 2007 , 2020 , Eli Lilly and Company .
All rights reserved .
HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen meets the current dose accuracy and functional requirements of ISO 11608 - 1 .
LOG7525KP - 0005 - IFU - 20200407 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON – HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 10 mL vial 1 ct NDC 0002 - 7511 - 01 10 mL 100 units per mL Humalog ® Mix75 / 25 TM insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension For subcutaneous use only .
Rx only U - 100 www . humalog . com Lilly [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE CARTON – HUMALOG Mix75 / 25 KwikPen 5 ct NDC 0002 - 8797 - 59 Humalog ® Mix75 / 25 ™ KwikPen ® insulin lispro protamine and insulin lispro injectable suspension For Single Patient Use Only Dispense in this sealed carton .
U - 100 100 units per mL Needles not included This device is recommended for use with Becton , Dickinson and Company ' s insulin pen needles For subcutaneous use only .
prefilled insulin delivery device Rx only 5 x 3 mL Prefilled Pens Read Insulin Delivery Device Instructions for Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
