DESCRIPTION The active ingredient of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , USP is cromolyn sodium , USP .
It is an inhaled anti - inflammatory agent for the preventive management of asthma .
Cromolyn sodium , USP is chemically designated as disodium 5 , 5 ' - [ ( 2 - hydroxytrimethylene ) dioxy ] bis [ 4 - oxo - 4 H - 1 - benzopyran - 2 - carboxylate ] .
The molecular formula is C 23 H 14 Na 2 O 11 ; the molecular weight is 512 . 34 .
Cromolyn sodium , USP is a water soluble , odorless , white , hydrated crystalline powder .
It is tasteless at first , but leaves a slightly bitter after taste .
Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , USP is clear , colorless to pale yellow , sterile , and has a target pH of 5 . 5 .
The molecular structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 2 mL ampule of cromolyn sodium , USP contains 20 mg cromolyn sodium , USP in water for injection , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In vitro and in vivo animal studies have shown that cromolyn sodium inhibits sensitized mast cell degranulation which occurs after exposure to specific antigens .
Cromolyn sodium acts by inhibiting the release of mediators from mast cells .
Studies show that cromolyn sodium indirectly blocks calcium ions from entering the mast cell , thereby preventing mediator release .
Cromolyn sodium inhibits both the immediate and non - immediate bronchoconstrictive reactions to inhaled antigen .
Cromolyn sodium also attenuates bronchospasm caused by exercise , toluene diisocyanate , aspirin , cold air , sulfur dioxide , and environmental pollutants .
Cromolyn sodium has no intrinsic bronchodilator or antihistamine activity .
After administration by inhalation , approximately 8 % of the total cromolyn sodium dose administered is absorbed and rapidly excreted unchanged , approximately equally divided between urine and bile .
The remainder of the dose is either exhaled or deposited in the oropharynx , swallowed and excreted via the alimentary tract .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , USP is a prophylactic agent indicated in the management of patients with bronchial asthma .
In patients whose symptoms are sufficiently frequent to require a continuous program of medication , cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , USP is given by inhalation on a regular daily basis ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The effect of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution is usually evident after several weeks of treatment , although some patients show an almost immediate response .
In patients who develop acute bronchoconstriction in response to exposure to exercise , toluene diisocyanate , environmental pollutants , etc . , cromolyn sodium inhalation solution should be given shortly before exposure to the precipitating factor ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution is contraindicated in those patients who have shown hypersensitivity to cromolyn sodium .
WARNINGS Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution has no role in the treatment of status asthmaticus .
Anaphylactic reactions with cromolyn sodium administration have been reported rarely .
PRECAUTIONS General Occasionally , patients may experience cough and / or bronchospasm following inhalation of cromolyn sodium .
At times , patients who develop bronchospasm may not be able to continue cromolyn sodium administration despite prior bronchodilator administration .
Rarely , very severe bronchospasm has been encountered .
Symptoms of asthma may recur if cromolyn sodium is reduced below the recommended dosage or discontinued .
Information for Patients Cromolyn sodium is to be taken as directed by the physician .
Because it is preventive medication , it may take up to four weeks before the patient experiences maximum benefit .
Cromolyn sodium should be used in a power - driven nebulizer with an adequate airflow rate equipped with a suitable face mask or mouthpiece .
Drug stability and safety of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established .
For additional information , see the accompanying leaflet entitled Living a Full Life with Asthma .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies of cromolyn sodium in mice ( 12 months intraperitoneal administration at doses up to 150 mg / kg three days per week ) , hamsters ( intraperitoneal administration at doses up to 53 mg / kg three days per week for 15 weeks followed by 17 . 5 mg / kg three days per week for 37 weeks ) , and rats ( 18 months subcutaneous treatment at doses up to 75 mg / kg six days per week ) showed no neoplastic effects .
These doses correspond to approximately 1 . 0 , 0 . 3 , and 2 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
Cromolyn sodium showed no mutagenic potential in Ames Salmonella / microsome plate assays , mitotic gene conversion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in an in vitro cytogenetic study in human peripheral lymphocytes .
No evidence of impaired fertility was shown in laboratory reproduction studies conducted subcutaneously in rats at the highest doses tested , 175 mg / kg / day in males and 100 mg / kg / day in females .
These doses are approximately 18 and 10 times , respectively , the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies with cromolyn sodium administered subcutaneously to pregnant mice and rats at maximum daily doses of 540 mg / kg and 164 mg / kg , respectively , and intravenously to rabbits at a maximum daily dose of 485 mg / kg produced no evidence of fetal malformations .
These doses represent approximately 27 , 17 , and 98 times , respectively , the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
Adverse fetal effects ( increased resorptions and decreased fetal weight ) were noted only at the very high parenteral doses that produced maternal toxicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Drug Interaction During Pregnancy Cromolyn sodium and isoproterenol were studied following subcutaneous injections in pregnant mice .
Cromolyn sodium alone in doses up to 540 mg / kg ( approximately 27 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) did not cause significant increases in resorptions or major malformations .
Isoproterenol alone at a dose of 2 . 7 mg / kg ( approximately 7 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) increased both resorptions and malformations .
The addition of cromolyn sodium ( approximately 27 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) to isoproterenol ( approximately 7 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) appears to have increased the incidence of both resorptions and malformations .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when cromolyn sodium is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with the use of cromolyn sodium suggests that adverse reactions are rare events .
The following adverse reactions have been associated with cromolyn sodium : cough , nasal congestion , nausea , sneezing , and wheezing .
Other reactions have been reported in clinical trials ; however , a causal relationship could not be established : drowsiness , nasal itching , nose bleed , nose burning , serum sickness , and stomachache .
In addition , adverse reactions have been reported with cromolyn sodium for inhalation capsules .
The most common side effects are associated with inhalation of the powder and include transient cough ( 1 in 5 patients ) and mild wheezing ( 1 in 25 patients ) .
These effects rarely require treatment or discontinuation of the drug .
Information on the incidence of adverse reactions to cromolyn sodium for inhalation capsules has been derived from U . S . postmarketing surveillance experience .
The following adverse reactions attributed to cromolyn sodium , based upon recurrence following readministration , have been reported in less than 1 in 10 , 000 patients : laryngeal edema , swollen parotid gland , angioedema , bronchospasm , joint swelling and pain , dizziness , dysuria and urinary frequency , nausea , cough , wheezing , headache , nasal congestion , rash , urticaria and lacrimation .
Other adverse reactions have been reported in less than 1 in 100 , 000 patients , and it is unclear whether these are attributable to the drug : anaphylaxis , nephrosis , periarteritic vasculitis , pericarditis , peripheral neuritis , pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia , polymyositis , exfoliative dermatitis , hemoptysis , anemia , myalgia , hoarseness , photodermatitis , and vertigo .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Micro Labs USA , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 839 - 8195 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There is no clinical syndrome associated with an overdosage of cromolyn sodium .
Acute toxicity testing in a wide variety of species has demonstrated that toxicity with cromolyn sodium occurs only with very high exposure levels , regardless of whether administration was parenteral , oral or by inhalation .
Parenteral administration in mice , rats , guinea pigs , hamsters , and rabbits demonstrated a median lethal dose of approximately 4000 mg / kg .
Intravenous administration in monkeys also indicated a similar pattern of toxicity .
The highest dose administered by the oral route in rats and mice was 8000 mg / kg , ( approximately 261 and 130 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) and at this dose level no deaths occurred .
By inhalation , even in long term studies , it proved impossible to achieve toxic dose levels of cromolyn sodium in a range of mammalian species .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For management of bronchial asthma in adults and pediatric patients ( two years of age and over ) , the usual starting dosage is the contents of one ampule administered by nebulization four times a day at regular intervals .
Drug stability and safety of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established .
Patients with chronic asthma should be advised that the effect of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution therapy is dependent upon its administration at regular intervals , as directed .
Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution should be introduced into the patient ' s therapeutic regimen when the acute episode has been controlled , the airway has been cleared and the patient is able to inhale adequately .
For the prevention of acute bronchospasm which follows exercise or exposure to cold dry air , environmental agents ( e . g . , animal danders , toluene diisocyanate , pollutants ) , etc . , the usual dose is the contents of one ampule administered by nebulization shortly before exposure to the precipitating factor .
It should be emphasized to the patient that the drug is poorly absorbed when swallowed and is not effective by this route of administration .
For additional information , see the accompanying leaflet entitled “ Living a Full Life with Asthma ” .
Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution Therapy in Relation to Other Treatments for Asthma : Non - steroidal agents Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution should be added to the patient ' s existing treatment regimen ( e . g . , bronchodilators ) .
When a clinical response to cromolyn sodium inhalation solution is evident , usually within two to four weeks , and if the asthma is under good control , an attempt may be made to decrease concomitant medication usage gradually .
If concomitant medications are eliminated or required on no more than a prn basis , the frequency of administration of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution may be titrated downward to the lowest level consistent with the desired effect .
The usual decrease is from four to three ampules per day .
It is important that the dosage be reduced gradually to avoid exacerbation of asthma .
It is emphasized that in patients whose dosage has been titrated to fewer than four ampules per day , an increase in the dose of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution and the introduction of , or increase in , symptomatic medications may be needed if the patient ' s clinical condition deteriorates .
Corticosteroids In patients chronically receiving corticosteroids for the management of bronchial asthma , the dosage should be maintained following the introduction of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution .
If the patient improves , an attempt to decrease corticosteroids should be made .
Even if the corticosteroid - dependent patient fails to show symptomatic improvement following cromolyn sodium inhalation solution administration , the potential to reduce corticosteroids may nonetheless be present .
Thus , gradual tapering of corticosteroid dosage may be attempted .
It is important that the dose be reduced slowly , maintaining close supervision of the patient to avoid an exacerbation of asthma .
It should be borne in mind that prolonged corticosteroid therapy frequently causes an impairment in the activity of the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal axis and a reduction in the size of the adrenal cortex .
A potentially critical degree of impairment or insufficiency may persist asymptomatically for some time even after gradual discontinuation of adrenocortical steroids .
Therefore , if a patient is subjected to significant stress , such as a severe asthmatic attack , surgery , trauma or severe illness while being treated or within one year ( occasionally up to two years ) after corticosteroid treatment has been terminated , consideration should be given to reinstituting corticosteroid therapy .
When respiratory function is impaired , as may occur in severe exacerbation of asthma , a temporary increase in the amount of corticosteroids may be required to regain control of the patient ' s asthma .
It is particularly important that great care be exercised if , for any reason , cromolyn sodium inhalation solution is withdrawn in cases where its use has permitted a reduction in the maintenance dose of corticosteroids .
In such cases , continued close supervision of the patient is essential since there may be sudden reappearance of severe manifestations of asthma which will require immediate therapy and possible reintroduction of corticosteroids .
HOW SUPPLIED Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , USP is a clear , colorless to pale yellow solution , practically free from any visible particles supplied in 2 mL fill in 3 mL BFS ( Blow Fill Seal ) ampule with twist off cap .
Each 2 mL ampule contains 20 mg cromolyn sodium , USP , in water for injection , USP .
2 mL fill in 3 mL BFS ampule NDC 42571 - 350 - 08 Inner Carton of 12 BFS ampules in a PVC Rondo Tray NDC 42571 - 350 - 08 Outer Carton of 60 x 2 mL Single - Dose Ampules ( 5 inner cartons of twelve 2 mL BFS Ampules ) NDC 42571 - 350 - 09 Outer Carton of 120 x 2 mL Single - Dose Ampules ( 10 inner cartons of twelve 2 mL BFS Ampules ) NDC 42571 - 350 - 50 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate .
Retain in rondo tray until time of use .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Manufactured by : Micro Labs Limited Bangalore - 560 099 , INDIA .
Manufactured for : Micro Labs USA , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Rev . 03 / 2022 LIVING A FULL LIFE WITH ASTHMA PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS CROMOLYN SODIUM INHALATION SOLUTION USP You or your child may be among the millions of Americans who have asthma .
For most patients , asthma need not limit your lifestyle , if you closely follow the asthma management plan your doctor provides you .
Your doctor has given you this instruction sheet to help you learn more about asthma and ways to control it .
WHAT IS ASTHMA ?
Asthma is a disease that causes patients to have difficulty breathing .
Asthma “ attacks ” occur when the air passages ( airways ) to the lungs close up , blocking air from passing through .
The closing up is caused by two things : • The muscles around the airways tighten ( constrict ) making the airway narrower , and • The passage lining swells and produces larger amounts of mucus ( a sticky liquid normally found in airways ) .
This swelling is caused by a certain type of inflammation that can build up in the airways of patients with asthma .
Inflammation and the airway sensitivity that results from it cause further attacks to occur .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] WHAT CAUSES THESE ATTACKS ?
Asthma experts know that patients with asthma have attacks because their airways are inflamed and over reactive .
Their lungs become super - sensitive to certain irritants or “ triggers ” , such as cold dry air , pollen , smoke , or cat dander .
In the presence of such triggers , someone with asthma may have an attack , and attacks may occur more often .
Asthma triggers fall into 6 categories : • Substances that cause allergies ( pollens , animal dander , molds , house dust , some foods and medicines ) • Infections that affect breathing ( colds , flu ) • Emotional stress ( difficult situations at home , school , or work ) • Strenuous exercise • Irritating gases ( chlorine , perfume , tobacco smoke ) • Sudden changes in temperature or humidity [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW TO PREVENT ASTHMA ATTACKS No medicine or procedure will “ cure ” asthma .
The key to asthma relief , therefore , is to prevent attacks and to relieve attack symptoms if they do occur .
A successful prevention plan * will do the following : • Keep your activities , including exercise , at normal levels .
• Keep your lungs functioning normally or at a near - normal level .
• Prevent symptoms such as coughing or breathlessness that can keep you up at night , or occur in the early morning hours , or after exertion .
• Prevent asthma attacks from happening .
• Avoid unpleasant or harmful side effects that may result from using asthma medicine .
The best way to prevent asthma attacks is to avoid the triggers that bother you or your child .
Try to identify the specific things that cause problems for you - things such as certain foods , house dust , or animal dander .
Avoiding these triggers may be difficult or unpleasant .
You may need to find a new home for a family pet or remove a carpet or a favorite stuffed toy .
Even though these steps are difficult , they may be necessary in order to help prevent asthma attacks .
If house dust is a trigger , remove dust - collectors such as feather pillows , mattresses , quilts , and carpets from the bedroom .
Mattresses and pillows can be covered with allergen - free covers .
If a certain food triggers attacks , keep it out of your diet .
Irritants in the air can be reduced by air conditioning , electrostatic air filters , or small - pore ( HEPA ) filters .
Be careful of certain medicines .
Aspirin and aspirin - like pain relievers , for example , can trigger attacks in some people and should be avoided if they do .
* Adapted from the National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute : Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma .
National Asthma Education Program , Expert Panel Report , 1991 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OTHER DO ’ S AND DON ’ TS Anyone with asthma should stick to a healthy , balanced diet , get lots of rest and moderate exercise , and follow these do ’ s and don ’ ts : • Don ’ t smoke , and don ’ t stay in the same room with people that do .
• Avoid fresh paint .
• Avoid sudden changes of temperature .
Don ’ t go in and out of extremely cool air - conditioned buildings during hot weather .
• Stay home in extremely cold weather , if possible .
• Stay away from people with cold or flu .
• Try to avoid emotionally upsetting situations .
• Drink lots of liquids .
• Don ’ t overdo , but follow a regular exercise plan , including activities that help develop lung capacity .
• Don ’ t take any medicine on your own without asking your doctor first .
• Take all medicines your doctor prescribes , as much and as often as you are told .
• Avoid taking sleeping pills or sedatives , even if asthma keeps you awake .
Prop yourself up with extra pillows until your asthma medicine takes effect .
• Avoid breathing in insecticides , deodorants , cleaning fluids , chlorine , or other irritating gases .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ASTHMA MEDICINES Preventive Medicine Your doctor knows that , besides relieving an attack when it happens , it is also important to prevent attacks from occurring in the first place .
Therefore , he or she has prescribed for you cromolyn sodium , a medicine that prevents asthma attacks by making airways less sensitive to asthma triggers .
It works by stabilizing cells in the airway lining called mast cells .
During an asthma attack , these cells become unstable and give off chemicals called mediators that cause inflammation and asthma attacks .
By preventing mediator release , cromolyn sodium works to prevent asthma attacks .
Bronchodilators When someone is having an asthma attack , he or she needs a medicine called a bronchodilator to open up ( dilate ) the blocked airways in order to relieve asthma attacks .
Your doctor may have already prescribed this medicine for you to use at that time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW WILL CROMOLYN SODIUM WORK FOR YOU ?
To get the best possible results , follow your doctor ’ s instructions carefully when you first take cromolyn sodium .
Your doctor may tell you to take cromolyn sodium 10 to 15 minutes before you exercise or come into contact with a specific trigger , such as a cat .
Usually , however , you will be told to take cromolyn sodium on a regular basis , probably starting at four times a day .
It is crucial that you take cromolyn sodium , regularly , as often as your doctor recommends , even though you have no asthma symptoms at the time .
Cromolyn sodium starts working right away but when you first begin taking it , you may have a lot of inflammation in your airways .
Therefore , it may take up to two weeks ( or perhaps one month ) of regular treatment to bring your asthma under control .
Do not stop taking cromolyn sodium or skip any doses without first talking with your doctor .
When you start using cromolyn sodium for the first time , your doctor may ask you to keep a diary showing when you have any symptoms , if and when you have trouble sleeping , how often you wheeze or cough , and other notes to help determine how effective cromolyn sodium will be to help you prevent asthma attacks .
Your doctor may also recommend the use of a peak flow meter daily to help you better assess your progress .
While taking cromolyn sodium on a regular basis , you may need to take a bronchodilator - type medicine to treat occasional symptoms or attacks .
While taking cromolyn sodium , you should continue taking your other medications until your doctor advises you otherwise .
HOW TO TAKE CROMOLYN SODIUM Be sure to follow instructions carefully when you are shown how to take cromolyn sodium inhalation solution .
CARE AND STORAGE Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution should be stored at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Retain in rondo tray until time of use .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Do not use if it contains a precipitate ( particles or cloudiness ) or becomes discolored .
NOTE : In case of difficulty consult your doctor or pharmacist .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for the Use of CROMOLYN SODIUM INHALATION SOLUTION USP An aqueous solution for nebulization NOT FOR INJECTION For best results , follow these instructions exactly and observe Care and Storage directions .
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION Cromolyn sodium inhalation solution is recommended for use in a power driven nebulizer operated at an airflow rate of 6 to 8 liters per minute and equipped with a suitable face mask .
Hand - operated nebulizers are not suitable for the administration of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution .
Your doctor will advise on the choice of a suitable nebulizer and how it should be used .
Do not use any appliance without consulting your doctor .
Drug stability and safety of cromolyn sodium inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established .
DOSAGE Nebulization should be carried out four times a day at regular intervals , or as directed by your doctor .
Use the contents of a fresh ampule each time .
INHALATION Once the nebulizer has been assembled and contains cromolyn sodium inhalation solution , hold the mask close to the patient ’ s face and switch on the device .
The patient should breathe in through the mouth and out through the nose in a normal , relaxed manner .
Nebulization should take approximately five to ten minutes .
1 .
Open the carton , take out rondo tray as shown in ( Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 2 .
Remove the ampule ( s ) from rondo tray as shown in ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 3 .
Open the ampule by twisting off the tabbed top section as shown in ( Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 4 .
Squeeze the contents of the unit - dose ampule into the solution container of your nebulizer ( Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 Discard the empty unit - dose ampule .
Manufactured by : Micro Labs Limited Bangalore - 560 099 , INDIA .
Manufactured for : Micro Labs USA , Inc .
Somerset , NJ 08873 Rev . 03 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 42571 - 350 - 08 Cromolyn Sodium Inhalation Solution , USP 20 mg / 2 mL For Oral Inhalation Use Only Not For Injection Aqueous Solution for Nebulization 2 mL Single - Dose Ampule [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 42571 - 350 - 08 Cromolyn Sodium Inhalation Solution , USP 20 mg / 2 mL For Oral Inhalation Use Only Not For Injection Aqueous Solution for Nebulization 12 x 2 mL Single - Dose Ampules [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 42571 - 350 - 09 Cromolyn Sodium Inhalation Solution , USP 20 mg / 2 mL For Oral Inhalation Use Only Not For Injection Aqueous Solution for Nebulization 5 Cartons of twelve 2 mL Ampoules each ( 60 Single - Dose Ampoules ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
