Rx only THIS SOLUTION IS INTENDED FOR DENTAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Bupivacaine hydrochloride is ( ± ) - 1 - Butyl - 2 ´ , 6 ´ - pipecoloxylidide monohydrochloride , monohydrate , a white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in 95 percent ethanol , soluble in water , and slightly soluble in chloroform or acetone .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epinephrine is ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( methylamino ) - methyl ] benzyl alcohol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bupivacaine is available in a sterile isotonic solution with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 ( as bitartrate ) .
Solutions of bupivacaine containing epinephrine may not be autoclaved .
Bupivacaine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the aminoacyl local anesthetics .
It is a homologue of mepivacaine and is chemically related to lidocaine .
All three of these anesthetics contain an amide linkage between the aromatic nucleus and the amino or piperidine group .
They differ in this respect from the procaine - type local anesthetics , which have an ester linkage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Bupivacaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane and prevents the initiation and transmission of nerve impulses , thereby effecting local anesthesia .
The onset of action following dental injections is usually 2 to 10 minutes and anesthesia may last two or three times longer than lidocaine and mepivacaine for dental use , in many patients up to 7 hours .
The duration of anesthetic effect is prolonged by the addition of epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 .
It has also been noted that there is a period of analgesia that persists after the return of sensation , during which time the need for strong analgesic is reduced .
After injection of bupivacaine for caudal , epidural or peripheral nerve block in man , peak levels of bupivacaine in the blood are reached in 30 to 45 minutes , followed by a decline to insignificant levels during the next three to six hours .
Because of its amide structure , bupivacaine is not detoxified by plasma esterases but is detoxified , via conjugation with glucuronic acid , in the liver .
When administered in recommended doses and concentrations , bupivacaine does not ordinarily produce irritation or tissue damage , and does not cause methemoglobinemia .
Systemic absorption of local anesthetics produces effects on the cardiovascular and central nervous systems ( CNS ) .
At blood concentrations achieved with normal therapeutic doses , changes in cadiac conduction , excitability , refractoriness , contractility , and peripheral vascular resistance are minimal .
However , toxic blood concentrations depress cardiac conduction and excitability , which may lead to atrioventricular block , ventricular arrhythmias , and cardiac arrest , sometimes resulting in fatalities .
In addition , myocardial contractility is depressed and peripheral vasodilation occurs , leading to decreased cardiac output and arterial blood pressure .
Recent clinical reports and animal research suggest that these cardiovascular changes are more likely to occur after unintended intravascular injection of bupivacaine .
Therefore , incremental dosing is necessary .
Following systemic absorption , local anesthetics can produce central nervous system stimulation , depression , or both .
Apparent central stimulation is manifested as restlessness , tremors and shivering progressing to convulsions , followed by depression and coma progressing ultimately to respiratory arrest .
However , the local anesthetics have a primary depressant effect on the medulla and on higher centers .
The depressed stage may occur without a prior excited state .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epineprhine 1 : 200 , 000 is indicated for the production of local anesthesia for dental procedures by infiltration injection or nerve block in adults .
Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 is not recommended for children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 , is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to it or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide type or to other components of bupivacaine solutions .
WARNINGS LOCAL ANESTHETICS SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE - RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED , AND THEN ONLY AFTER INSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN , OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS , CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , AND THE PERSONNEL RESOURCES NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES .
( See also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS . )
DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE - RELATED TOXICITY , UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE , AND / OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS , CARDIAC ARREST AND , POSSIBLY , DEATH .
Small doses of local anesthetics injected into the head and neck area , as small as nine to eighteen milligrams , may produce adverse reactions similar to systemic toxicity seen with unintentional intravascular injections of larger doses .
Confusion , convulsions , respiratory depression , and / or respiratory arrest , cardiovascular stimulation or depression and cardiac arrest have been reported .
Reactions resulting in fatalities have occurred on rare occasions .
In a few cases , resuscitation has been difficult or impossible despite apparently adequate preparation and appropriate management .
These reactions may be due to intra - arterial injection of the local anesthetic with retrograde flow to the cerebral circulation .
Patients receiving these blocks should have their circulation and respiration monitored and be constantly observed .
Resuscitative equipment and personnel for treating adverse reactions should be immediately available .
Dosage recommendations should not be exceeded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
It is essential that aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid ( where applicable ) be done prior to injecting any local anesthetic , both the original dose and all subsequent doses , to avoid intravascular injection .
However , a negative aspiration does not ensure against an intravascular injection .
Reactions resulting in fatality have occurred on rare occasions with the use of local anesthetics , even in the absence of a history of hypersensitivity .
This solution , which contains a vasoconstrictor , should be used with extreme caution for patients whose medical history and physical evaluation suggest the existence of hypertension , arteriosclerotic heart disease , cerebral vascular insufficiency , heart block , thyrotoxicosis and diabetes , etc . , as well as patients receiving drugs likely to produce alterations in blood pressure .
Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection or other vasopressors should not be used concomitantly with ergot - type oxytocic drugs , because a severe persistent hypertension may occur .
Likewise , solutions of bupivacaine containing a vasoconstrictor , such as epinephrine , should be used with extreme caution in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) or antidepressants of the triptyline or imipramine types , because severe prolonged hypertension may result .
Until further experience is gained in children younger than 12 years , administration of bupivacaine in this age group is not recommended .
Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS The safety and effectiveness of local anesthetics depend upon proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions , and readiness for emergencies .
The lowest dosage that gives effective anesthesia should be used in order to avoid high plasma levels and serious systemic side effects .
Injection of repeated doses of bupivacaine may cause significant increase in blood levels with each additional dose , due to accumulation of the drug or its metabolites or due to slow metabolic degradation .
Tolerance varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients and acutely ill patients should be given reduced doses commensurate with age and physical condition .
Because of the long duration of anesthesia , when bupivacaine with epinephrine is used for dental injections , patients should be cautioned about the possibility of inadvertent trauma to tongue , lips , and buccal mucosa and advised not to chew solid foods or test the anesthetized area by biting or probing .
Changes in sensorium , such as excitation , disorientation , drowsiness , may be early indications of a high blood level of the drug and may occur following inadvertent intravascular administration or rapid absorption of bupivacaine .
Solutions containing a vasoconstrictor should be used cautiously in areas with limited blood supply , in the presence of diseases that may adversely affect the patient ' s cardiovascular system , or in patients with peripheral vascular disease .
Caution is advised in administration of repeat doses of bupivacaine to patients with severe liver disease .
Local anesthetic procedures should be used with caution when there is inflammation and / or sepsis in the region of the proposed injection .
Drug Interactions See WARNINGS concerning solutions containing a vasoconstrictor .
If sedatives are employed to reduce patient apprehension , use reduced doses , since local anesthetic agents , like sedatives , are central nervous system depressants which in combination may have an additive effect .
Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection should be used cautiously in persons with known drug allergies or sensitivities , particularly to the amide - type local anesthetics .
Serious dose - related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are employed in patients during or following the administration of chloroform , halothane , cyclopropane , trichloroethylene , or other related agents .
In deciding whether to use these products concurrently in the same patient , the combined action of both agents upon the myocardium , the concentration and volume of vasoconstrictor used , and the time since injection , when applicable , should be taken into account .
Information for Patients When appropriate , the dentist should discuss information including adverse reactions in the package insert for Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epineprhine 1 : 200 , 000 injection .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving mono - amine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe , prolonged hypertension .
Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided .
In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary , careful patient monitoring is essential .
Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and of ergot - type oxytocic drugs may cause severe , persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents .
Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bupivacaine hydrochloride have not been conducted .
The mutagenic potential and the effect on fertility of bupivacaine hydrochloride has not been determined .
Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Bupivacaine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Bupivacaine hydrochloride produced development toxicity when administered subcutaneously to pregnant rats and rabbits at clinically relevant doses .
This does not exclude the use of bupivacaine at term for obstetrical anesthesia or analgesia .
Bupivacaine hydrochloride was administered subcutaneously to rats at doses of 4 . 4 , 13 . 3 , and 40 mg / kg and to rabbits at doses of 1 . 3 , 5 . 8 , and 22 . 2 mg / kg during the period of organogenesis ( implantation to closure of the hard palate ) .
The high doses are approximately 4 - times the daily maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 90 mg / day on a mg dose / m2 body surface area ( BSA ) basis .
No embryo - fetal effects were observed in rats at the high dose which caused increased maternal lethality .
An increase in embryo - fetal deaths was observed in rabbits at the high dose in the absence of maternal toxicity with the fetal No Observed Adverse Effect Level being a comparable dose to the MRHD on a BSA basis .
In a rat pre - and post - natal development study ( dosing from implantation through weaning ) conducted at subcutaneous doses of 4 . 4 , 13 . 3 and 40 mg / kg mg / kg / day , decreased pup survival was observed at the high dose .
The high dose is approximately 4 - time the daily MRHD of 90 mg / day on a BSA basis .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether local anesthetic drugs are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when local anesthetics are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Until further experience is gained in children younger than 12 years , administration of bupivacaine in this age group is not recommended .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions to Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection are characteristic of those associated with other amide - type local anesthetics .
A major cause of adverse reactions to this group of drugs is excessive plasma levels , which may be due to overdosage , inadvertent intravascular injection or slow metabolic degradation .
Excessive plasma levels of the amide - type local anesthetics cause systemic reactions involving the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system .
The central nervous system effects are characterized by excitation or depression .
The first manifestation may be nervousness , dizziness , blurred vision , or tremors , followed by drowsiness , convulsions , unconsciousness , and possibly respiratory arrest .
Since excitement may be transient or absent , the first manifestation may be drowsiness , sometimes merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Other central nervous system effects may be nausea , vomiting , chills , constriction of the pupils , or tinnitus .
The cardiovascular manifestations of excessive plasma levels may include depression of the myocardium , blood pressure changes ( usually hypotension ) , and cardiac arrest .
Allergic reactions , which may be due to hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy , or diminished tolerance , are characterized by cutaneous lesions ( e . g . , urticaria ) , edema , and other manifestations of allergy .
Detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
Transient facial swelling and puffiness may occur near the injection site .
Treatment of Reactions Toxic effects of local anesthetics require symptomatic treatment ; there is no specific cure .
The dentist should be prepared to maintain an airway and to support ventilation with oxygen and assisted or controlled respiration as required .
Supportive treatment of the cardiovascular system includes intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , vasopressors ( preferably those that stimulate the myocardium ) .
Convulsions may be controlled with oxygen and intravenous administration , in small increments , of a barbiturate , as follows : preferably , an ultra - short - acting barbiturate such as thiopental or thiamylal ; if this is not available , a short - acting barbiturate ( e . g . , secobarbital or pentobarbital ) or diazepam .
Intravenous barbiturates or anticonvulsant agents should only be administered by those familiar with their use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As with all anesthetics , the dosage varies and depends upon the area to be anesthetized , the vascularity of the tissues , the number of neuronal segments to be blocked , individual tolerance , and the technique of anesthesia .
The lowest dosage needed to provide effective anesthesia should be administered .
For specific techniques and procedures , refer to standard textbooks .
The 0 . 5 % concentration with epinephrine is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthetic action is desired , such as for oral surgical procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain .
The average dose of 1 . 8 mL ( 9 mg ) per injection site will usually suffice ; an occasional second dose of 1 . 8 mL ( 9 mg ) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after making allowance for 2 to 10 minutes onset time ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
The lowest effective dose should be employed and time should be allowed between injections ; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites , spread out over a single dental sitting , should not ordinarily exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient ( ten 1 . 8 mL injections of bupivacaine with epinephrine ) .
Injections should be made slowly and with frequent aspirations .
Until further experience is gained , bupivacaine in dentistry is not recommended for children younger than 12 years .
Parental drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Do not permit to freeze .
Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection ( as bitartrate ) – Sterile isotonic solutions containing sodium chloride .
Each 1 mL contains 5 mg bupivacaine hydrochloride and 0 . 0091 mg epinephrine bitartrate , with 0 . 5 mg sodium metabisulfite , 7 mg sodium chloride , 0 . 001 mL monothioglycerol , and 2 mg ascorbic acid as antioxidants , 0 . 0017 mL 60 % sodium lactate buffer , and 0 . 1 mg edetate calcium disodium as stabilizer .
The pH of these solutions is adjusted with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid .
Solutions of bupivacaine that contain epinephrine should not be autoclaved and should be protected from light .
Do not use the solution if its colour is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate .
Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection ( NDC 31382 - 557 - 05 ) is available in cardboard boxes containing 5 blisters of 10 × 1 . 8 mL dental cartridges .
Manufactured for CARESTREAM DENTAL a division of Caresteam Health , Inc by NOVOCOL Pharmaceutical of Canada Inc , Cambridge , Ontario , Canada N1R6X3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 8 mL Cartridge Carton Cook - Waite NDC 31382 - 557 - 05 Marcaine ® 0 . 5 % with epinephrine 1 : 200 , 000 injection ( as bitartrate ) ( bupivacaine hydrochloride and epinephrine Injection , USP ) WARNINGS : CONTAINS SULFITES Rx Only FOR DENTAL USE Carton contains 50 cartridges .
Each cartridge contains 1 . 8 mL Marketed by Carestream Health , Inc .
Manufactured for Carestream Health , Inc . by NOVOCOL Pharmaceutical of Canada , Inc . , Cambridge , Ontario , Canada , N1R6X3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
