Active Ingredient Active ingredient Purpose Carbamide Peroxide 6 . 5 % ..........................
Earwax Removal Aid Uses Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive ear wax .
Keep Out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Indications and Usage Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive ear wax .
Warnings Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have - ear drainage or discharge - ear pain - irritation or rash in the ear - dizziness - an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear drum - recently had ear surgery Stop use and ask a doctor if - you need to use for more than four days - excessive wax remains after use of this product When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes .
If accidental contact with the eyes occurs , flush eyes with water and consult your doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Unscrew cap from bottle .
Remove foil safety seal from bottle .
Affix applicator cap to bottle .
Adults and children over 12 years of age : - tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear - tip of applicator should not enter ear canal - keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear - use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor - any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber ear syringe .
- when the ear canal is irrigated , the tip of the ear syringe should not obstruct the flow of water leaving the ear canal Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information - avoid exposing the bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight - keep cap on bottle when not in use - lot no .
& exp date : see label , bottom of container or box - retain carton for future reference on full labeling - Note : Drops foam on contact with ear wax due to release of oxygen .
There may be an associated " cracking " sound - Note : Oversize packaging for ease in reading label information .
Contains one bottle .
- Store between 20 degrees to 25 degrees C ( 68 degrees to 77 degrees F ) Inactive Ingredients Inactive ingredients anhydrous glycerin , citric acid , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium citrate , tartaric acid Questions ?
Adverse Drug Event Call toll free : ( 800 ) 616 - 2471 Principal Display Panel NDC 63187 - 187 - 15 EAR WAX REMOVER WITH IRRIGATOR Earwax Removal Aid ( carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % ) Distributed by : MAJOR PHARMACEUTICALS 31778 Enterprise Drive Livonia , MI 48150 USA Relabeled By : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
