Rx only DESCRIPTION Nystatin Cream is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin is a polyene antimycotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
It is a yellow to light tan powder with a cereal - like odor , very soluble in water , and slightly to sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Cream contains the antifungal antibiotic nystatin at a concentration of 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram in an aqueous , perfumed cream base containing purified water , propylene glycol , methylparaben , propylparaben , white petrolatum , glyceryl monostearate , polyethylene glycol 400 monostearate , ceteareth - 15 , medical antifoam AF emulsion , aluminum hydroxide gel , titanium dioxide , sorbitol solution , and , if necessary , sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is an antifungal antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
It probably acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is the first well tolerated antifungal antibiotic of dependable efficacy for the treatment of cutaneous , oral and intestinal infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
It exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria .
Nystatin provides specific therapy for all localized forms of candidiasis .
Symptomatic relief is rapid , often occurring within 24 to 72 hours after the initiation of treatment .
Cure is effected both clinically and mycologically in most cases of localized candidiasis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Cream is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Cream is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Should a reaction of hypersensitivity occur the drug should be immediately withdrawn and appropriate measures taken .
Nystatin Cream is not for ophthalmic use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants , even on prolonged administration .
If irritation on topical application should occur , discontinue medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Cream should be applied liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete .
Nystatin Cream is usually preferred to Nystatin Ointment in candidiasis involving intertriginous areas ; very moist lesions , however , are best treated with Nystatin Topical Powder .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream is a smooth yellow cream with a characteristic perfume odor .
Nystatin Cream is providing 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram in 15 gram tubes NDC 54868 - 0242 - 1 30 gram tubes NDC 54868 - 0242 - 0 Store at 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : June , 2005 PK - 1161 - 3 262 Relabeling of " Additional " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nystatin Cream [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
