[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Purpose Propylene Glycol 0 . 6 % Lubricant Uses • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • for the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun • for use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye • for use as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye Warnings For external use only Do not use • if this product changes color or becomes cloudy • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • do not reuse • once opened , discard Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following : • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before using • put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed Other Information • store at room temperature Inactive Ingredients boric acid , dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol , hydroxypropyl guar , mineral oil , polyoxyl 40 stearate , sorbitan tristearate , sorbitol and purified water .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Questions ?
In the U . S . call 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 www . systane . com alcon . medinfo @ alcon . com Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA Made in France www . alconpatents . com NDC : 0065 - 1530 - 01 437600 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SAMPLE - NOT FOR SALE Systane ® LUBRICANT EYE DROP COMPLETE PF PRESERVATIVE - FREE DRY EYE RELIEF Fast - acting hydration for sensitive eyes Tear evaporation protection Nano - droplets for better coverage * Only available at retail in a preservative - free bottle # 1 DOCTOR RECOMMENDED BRAND1 Alcon STERILE 5 Vials 0 . 5 mL ( 0 . 01 FL OZ ) each Side Panel : Exclusive Formula Not Sold in Store Brands DIRECTIONS : Make sure container is intact before use .
To open , COMPLETELY TWIST OFF TAB .
Do not pull off .
Put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed .
Throw away container .
Do not reuse .
TAMPER EVIDENT : For your protection , do not use if vial is damaged or opened .
437600 1 Based on a survey of eye care professionals .
Data on file .
* vs SYSTANE ® BALANCE LOT : EXP : 2737 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
