Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % Hydroalcoholic Base Acne Gel Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 10 % Hydroalcoholic Base Acne Gel Rx Only DESCRIPTION Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % and 10 % ( Hydroalcoholic Base Acne Gels ) are topical preparations containing benzoyl peroxide as the active ingredient .
Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % contains : 5 % benzoyl peroxide in a hydroalcoholic gel base formulated with alcohol ( 12 % , denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and denatonium benzoate ) , citric acid , disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate , hypromellose , laureth - 12 , magnesium aluminum silicate , and purified water .
Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 10 % contains : 10 % benzoyl peroxide in a hydroalcoholic gel base formulated with alcohol ( 20 % , denatured with tert - butyl alcohol and denatonium benzoate ) , citric acid , hypromellose , laureth - 12 , magnesium aluminum silicate , and purified water .
The structural formula of benzoyl peroxide is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact method of action of benzoyl peroxide in acne vulgaris is not known .
Benzoyl peroxide is an antibacterial agent with demonstrated activity against Propionibacterium acnes .
This action , combined with the mild keratolytic effect of benzoyl peroxide is believed to be responsible for its usefulness in acne .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is metabolized to benzoic acid and excreted as benzoate in the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % and 10 % are indicated for use in the topical treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris .
Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % and 10 % may be used as an adjunct in acne treatment regimens including antibiotics , retinoic acid products , and sulfur / salicylic acid containing preparations .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % and 10 % should not be used in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to benzoyl peroxide or to any of the other ingredients in the products .
PRECAUTIONS General For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
AVOID CONTACT WITH HAIR , FABRICS OR CARPETING AS BENZOYL PEROXIDE WILL CAUSE BLEACHING .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Based upon all available evidence , benzoyl peroxide is not considered to be a carcinogen .
However , data from a study using mice known to be highly susceptible to cancer suggest that benzoyl peroxide acts as a tumor promoter .
The clinical significance of the findings is not known .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
It is also not known whether benzoyl peroxide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzoyl peroxide should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzoyl peroxide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Contact sensitization reactions are associated with the use of topical benzoyl peroxide products and may be expected to occur in 10 to 25 of 1000 patients .
The most frequent adverse reactions associated with benzoyl peroxide use are excessive erythema and peeling which may be expected to occur in 5 of 100 patients .
Excessive erythema and peeling most frequently appear during the initial phase of drug use and may normally be controlled by reducing frequency of use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is recommended that therapy be initiated with Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % , applying the medication to the affected areas once a day during the first week , and twice a day thereafter as tolerated .
Frequency of use should be adjusted to obtain the desired clinical response .
Therapy with Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 10 % may be initiated in patients who demonstrate accommodation to Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % .
Gentle cleansing of the affected areas prior to application of Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % or 10 % may be beneficial .
Clinically visible improvements will normally occur by the third week of therapy .
Maximum lesion reduction may be expected after approximately eight to twelve weeks of drug use .
Continuing use of the drug is normally required to maintain a satisfactory clinical response .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % ( Hydroalcoholic Base Acne Gel ) are supplied in 60 gram tubes .
Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5 % NDC 21695 - 686 - 60 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
MANUFACTURED BY STIEFEL LABORATORIES , INC .
CORAL GABLES , FL 33134 DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO ® ALLEGAN , MI 49010 Rev . 10 / 08 302010 : 9X300 RC J2 Repackaged by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
