Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % STRONGER THICKER LONGER HAIR REDUCE HAIR LOSS RESTORE THINNING HAIR The Foam is for somepeople who have a general thinning of hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , asshown below ) .
Not intendedfor frontal baldness or areceding hairline .
The Foamhas been shown to regrowhair in some people with thefollowing degrees of thinninghair or hair loss .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] lf you have more hair loss or hair loss in a place different than shown above , Foam may not work .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] lnactive ingredients Water , Vitamin H ( Biotin ) , Pork Collagen .
Panax Ginseng Berry Extract , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Flower Extract , Frangula Alnus Bark Extract , Ligustrum Lucidum Fruit Extract , Ligusticum Chuanxiong Root Extract , Glycyrrhiza Uralensis ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Angelica Sinensis Root Extract , Platycladus Orientalis , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Capsaicin for hair loss Apply half a capful once daily to directly to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers .
then wash hands well . Using more or more often will not improve results .
Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children . lf swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
For adult external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away fromheat or flame .
Do not use · Pregnant women and children .
· on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , andmouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughlywith water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs . These may be signs of a serious condition .
USING THE PRODUCT To open container .
The foam may begin to melt right away on contact with your warm skin .
If your fingers arewarm , rinse them in cold water first .
( Be sure to dry them thoroughly before handing thefoam . )
Press nozzle to dispense the topical foam product onto your fingers .
The total amount of foam applied should not exceed half a capful .
Using your fingers , spread the foam over the hair loss area and gently massage into scalp and then wash your hands well .
After each use , dose the container to make child resistant by snapping the cap back on to the can .
other information Store at Controlled Room Temperature 20 ° C to25 ° C ( 68 ° Fto 77 ° F ) Contents under pressure . Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Do n't hold straight upside down Do not use - Pregnant women and children .
- on open skin wounds when using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
ln case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rashoccurs . These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison ControlCenter right away .
THIS PACKAGE CONTAINS .
One 60 g ( 2 . 11 fl oz ) cans of Foam ( one month supply ) Apply half a capful once daily to directly to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
