Drug Facts Active ingredient & Purpose Clotrimazole , USP 1 % Active ingredient Purpose Clotrimazole 1 % Antifungal Uses For the treatment of most : • athlete ' s foot • jock itch • ring worm For effective relief of : • itching • scaling • cracking • burning • redness • soreness • irritation • discomfort • chafing associated with jock Itch • itchy , scaly skin between the toes • itching , burning feet Warnings FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Do not use • on children under 2 years , unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes and mouth Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm : use daily for 4 weeks • for jock itch : use daily for 2 weeks .
• if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store between 15 ˚ - 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ - 85 ˚ F ) • avoid excessive heat and humidity TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use if foil seal under cap is punctured , torn , or missing .
Inactive ingredients ceteareth - 6 , ceteareth - 25 , cetearyl ethylhexanoate , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate , peg - 100 stearate , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylparaben , water , white petrolatum Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 359 - 3478 ( M - F ) 9 am - 5 pm EST or www . pharmadel . com Distributed by / Distribuido por : PHARMADEL LLC New Castle , DE 19720 • www . pharmadel . com + 1 - 866 - 359 - 3478 Made in India / Hecho en India Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
