Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 1 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn Warnings Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only Do not use ● on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product ● keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ● rash occurs or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , C12 - 20 Acid PEG - 8 Ester , Methylene Bis - Benzotriazolyl Tetramethylbutylphenol , Butylene Glycol , Ethylhexyl Stearate , Cetyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Glycerin , Decyl Glucoside , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Carbomer , Rice ( Oryza Sativa ) Starch , Titanium Dioxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Caprylyl Glycol , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Sodium Hydroxide , Disodium EDTA , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Bisabolol , Carrageenan ( Chondrus Crispus Powder ) , Aluminum Stearate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Propylene Glycol , Alumina , Limonene , Xanthan Gum , PEG - 8 , Linalool , Sodium Hyaluronate , Hydroxyisohexyl 3 - Cyclohexene Carboxaldehyde , Benzyl Salicylate , Tocopherol , Hexyl Cinnamal , Tocotrienols , Palm ( Elaeis Guineensis ) Oil , Ginkgo ( Ginkgo Biloba ) Leaf Extract , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Squalene , Phytosterols , Ascorbic Acid , Citric Acid .
Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• store in a cool dry place .
Questions ?
Call toll - free number 1 - 888 - 927 - 0498 ( USA ) Mon - Fri 9 . 00 am to 5 . 00 pm .
You may also report serious side effects to this phone number .
SPF 30 with UVA Protection Rise & Shine , Moisturise Non - allergenic Fragrance .
No Paraben , Alcohol , Mineral Oil and Sulphates .
Dermatologically and Clinically Tested .
Ready to start your day ?
After cleansing your face , all you need is a one - step skincare with Day Glower and you are ready to greet the day !
This lightweight , non - greasy moisturiser protects the skin from premature ageing and damage with its defence against UV rays and environmental pollutants .
Enriched with a luxurious blend of active ingredients , the skin receives the moisture and nourishment it needs to stay soft and supple .
Witness a fair and even skin tone with visible glow !
Be pampered with the multi - functional benefits of this all - in - one Facial Moisturiser with Sunscreen : • Reduce risk of premature ageing • Sun Protection • Hydrating • Nourishing Find out more about the goodness of the active ingredients used in this product : www . Auolive . com / shop / dayglower Swiss Formulated .
Made in Singapore .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
