To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Lincomycin and other anti - bacterial drugs , Lincomycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
WARNING Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Lincomycin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because lincomycin therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION Lincomycin Injection , USP is a sterile solution containing lincomycin hydrochloride which is the monohydrated salt of lincomycin , a lincosamide antibacterial produced by the growth of a member of the lincolnensis group of Streptomyces lincolnensis ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
The chemical name for lincomycin hydrochloride is Methyl 6 , 8 - dideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - D - erythro - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside monohydrochloride monohydrate .
The molecular formula of lincomycin hydrochloride is C 18 H 34 N 2 O 6 S • HCl • H 2 O and the molecular weight is 461 . 01 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lincomycin hydrochloride is a white or practically white , crystalline powder and is odorless or has a faint odor .
Its solutions are acid and are dextrorotatory .
Lincomycin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water ; soluble in dimethylformamide and very slightly soluble in acetone .
Lincomycin Injection contains lincomycin hydrochloride in a sterile , clear , colorless solution with benzyl alcohol used as a preservative 9 . 45 mg / mL , and water for injection .
Lincomycin Injection is a sterile solution for intramuscular and intravenous use .
Lincomycin injection is supplied in 2 mL and 10 mL multiple - dose vials containing the equivalent of 300 mg / mL of lincomycin ( equivalent to 340 mg / mL of lincomycin hydrochloride , USP ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Intramuscular administration of a single dose of 600 mg of lincomycin produces average peak serum concentrations of 11 . 6 mcg / mL at 60 minutes and maintains therapeutic concentrations for 17 to 20 hours for most susceptible gram - positive organisms .
Urinary excretion after this dose ranges from 1 . 8 to 24 . 8 percent ( mean : 17 . 3 percent ) .
A two hour intravenous infusion of 600 mg of lincomycin achieves average peak serum concentrations of 15 . 9 mcg / mL and yields therapeutic concentrations for 14 hours for most susceptible gram - positive organisms .
Urinary excretion ranges from 4 . 9 to 30 . 3 percent ( mean : 13 . 8 percent ) .
The biological half - life after intramuscular or intravenous administration is 5 . 4 ± 1 . 0 hours .
The serum half - life of lincomycin may be prolonged in patients with severe impairment of renal function compared to patients with normal renal function .
In patients with hepatic impairment , serum half - life may be twofold longer than in patients with normal hepatic function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing lincomycin from the serum .
Tissue distribution studies indicate that bile is an important route of excretion .
Significant concentrations have been demonstrated in most body tissues .
Although lincomycin appears to diffuse into cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) , concentrations of lincomycin in the CSF appear inadequate for the treatment of meningitis .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Lincomycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the bacterial ribosome .
Lincomycin is predominantly bacteriostatic in vitro .
Resistance Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Resistance is most often due to methylation of specific nucleotides in the 23 S RNA of the 50 S ribosomal subunit , which can determine cross resistance to macrolides and streptogramins B ( MLS B phenotype ) .
Macrolide - resistant isolates of these organisms should be tested for inducible resistance to lincomycin / clindamycin using the D - zone test or other appropriate method .
Antimicrobial Activity Lincomycin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following bacteria both in vitro and in clinical infections : ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus pneumoniae The following in vitro data are available ; but their clinical significance is unknown .
Lincomycin has been shown to be active in vitro against the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of Lincomycin in treating clinical infections due to these organisms have not been established in adequate and well controlled trials .
Gram - positive bacteria : Corynebacterium diphtheriae Streptococcus pyogenes Viridans group streptococci Anaerobic bacteria : Clostridium tetani Clostridium perfringens Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lincomycin Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of CDAD , as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting lincomycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of other alternatives .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibacterial therapy .
Lincomycin injection may be administered concomitantly with other antimicrobial agents when indicated .
Lincomycin is not indicated in the treatment of minor bacterial infections or viral infections .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Lincomycin and other antibacterial drugs , Lincomycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lincomycin injection is contraindicated in patients previously found to be hypersensitive to lincomycin or clindamycin .
WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING .
Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Lincomycin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactic reactions and severe cutaneous adverse reactions ( SCAR ) such as Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , and erythema multiforme ( EM ) have been reported in patients receiving Lincomycin Injection , USP therapy .
If an anaphylactic reaction or severe skin reaction occurs , Lincomycin Injection , USP should be discontinued and appropriate therapy should be initiated .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity in Pediatric Patients ( Gasping Syndrome ) Lincomycin injection contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events , including the " gasping syndrome " , and death in pediatric patients .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the " gasping syndrome " , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys ' capacity to detoxify the chemical .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Inadequate for Use in Meningitis Although lincomycin appears to diffuse into cerebrospinal fluid , concentrations of lincomycin in the CSF may be inadequate for the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When Lincomycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Lincomycin should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Lincomycin should be used with caution in patients with a history of asthma or significant allergies .
Certain infections may require incision and drainage or other indicated surgical procedures in addition to antibacterial therapy .
The use of Lincomycin may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
When patients with pre - existing Candida infections require therapy with Lincomycin , concomitant antifungal treatment should be given .
The serum half - life of lincomycin may be prolonged in patients with severe renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function .
In patients with hepatic impairment , serum half - life may be twofold longer than in patients with normal hepatic function .
Patients with severe renal impairment and / or hepatic impairment should be dosed with caution and serum lincomycin levels monitored during high - dose therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Lincomycin MUST be diluted prior to intravenous infusion .
For intravenous infusion , infuse over at least 60 minutes as directed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Section .
Do NOT administer as an intravenous bolus .
Severe cardiopulmonary reactions have occurred at greater than the recommended concentration and rate .
Prescribing Lincomycin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Lincomycin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Lincomycin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Lincomycin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with an antibacterial , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after taking the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy with Lincomycin , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Lincomycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The carcinogenic potential of lincomycin has not been evaluated .
Lincomycin was not found to be mutagenic in the Ames Salmonella reversion assay or the V79 Chinese hamster lung cells at the HGPRT locus .
It did not induce DNA strand breaks in V79 Chinese hamster lung cells as measured by alkaline elution or chromosomal abnormalities in cultured human lymphocytes .
In vivo , lincomycin was negative in both the rat and mouse micronucleus assays and it did not induce sex - linked recessive lethal mutations in the offspring of male Drosophila .
However , lincomycin did cause unscheduled DNA syntheses in freshly isolated rat hepatocytes .
Impairment of fertility was not observed in male or female rats given oral 300 mg / kg doses of lincomycin ( 0 . 36 times the highest recommended human dose based on mg / m 2 ) .
Pregnancy There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Lincomycin Injection , USP Sterile Solution contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol can cross the placenta .
See WARNINGS .
Lincomycin for Injection , USP should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Teratogenic Effects : In a study with 60 pregnant women , cord serum concentrations were approximately 25 % of the maternal serum concentrations , indicating that lincomycin crosses the placenta , and no substantial accumulation occurred in the amniotic fluid .
Experience with 345 obstetrical patients receiving Lincomycin Injection , USP revealed no ill effects related to pregnancy .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity when lincomycin was administered in diet to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats during the period of major organogenesis at doses up to 5000 mg / kg ( approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] , respectively , based on body surface area comparison ) .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies performed in rats administered oral lincomycin in diet for 2 weeks prior to mating , throughout pregnancy and lactation , revealed no adverse effects on survival of offspring from birth to weaning at doses up to 1000 mg / kg ( 1 . 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) up to 2 generations .
Nursing Mothers Lincomycin has been reported to appear in human milk in concentrations of 0 . 5 to 2 . 4 mcg / mL .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Lincomycin Injection , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing , or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Lincomycin Injection , USP contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
See WARNINGS .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of one month have not been established .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with the use of lincomycin .
Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , glossitis , stomatitis , abdominal pain , abdominal discomfort [ 1 ] , anal pruritus Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , dermatitis bullous , dermatitis exfoliative , erythema multiforme ( see WARNINGS ) , rash , urticaria , pruritus Infections and infestations Vaginal infection , pseudomembranous colitis , Clostridioides difficile colitis ( see WARNINGS ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , leukopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenic purpura Immune system disorders Anaphylactic reaction ( see WARNINGS ) , angioedema , serum sickness Hepatobiliary disorders Jaundice , liver function test abnormal , transaminases increased Renal and urinary disorders Renal impairment , oliguria , proteinuria , azotemia Cardiac disorders Cardio - respiratory arrest ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Vascular disorders Hypotension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , thrombophlebitis null Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo , tinnitus Neurologic disorders Headache , dizziness , somnolence General disorders and administration site conditions Injection site abscess sterile [ 2 ] , injection site induration null , injection site pain null , injection site irritation null To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 390 - 4411 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
[ 1 ] Event has been reported with intravenous injection .
[ 2 ] Reported with intramuscular injection .
OVERDOSAGE Serum concentrations of lincomycin are not appreciably affected by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , Lincomycin injection should be discontinued .
( See BOXED WARNING ) Intramuscular Adults : Serious infections — 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscularly every 24 hours .
More severe infections — 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscularly every 12 hours or more often .
Pediatric patients over 1 month of age : Serious infections — one intramuscular injection of 10 mg / kg ( 5 mg / lb ) every 24 hours .
More severe infections — one intramuscular injection of 10 mg / kg ( 5 mg / lb ) every 12 hours or more often .
Intravenous Adults : The intravenous dose will be determined by the severity of the infection .
For serious infections doses of 600 mg of lincomycin ( 2 mL of Lincomycin Injection ) to 1 gram are given every 8 to 12 hours .
For more severe infections these doses may have to be increased .
In life - threatening situations daily intravenous doses of as much as 8 grams have been given .
Intravenous doses are given on the basis of 1 gram of lincomycin diluted in not less than 100 mL of appropriate solution ( see PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITIES ) and infused over a period of not less than one hour .
Dose Vol .
Diluent Time 600 mg 100 mL 1 hr 1 gram 100 mL 1 hr 2 grams 200 mL 2 hr 3 grams 300 mL 3 hr 4 grams 400 mL 4 hr These doses may be repeated as often as required to the limit of the maximum recommended daily dose of 8 grams of Lincomycin .
Pediatric patients over 1 month of age : 10 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 5 to 10 mg / lb / day ) depending on the severity of the infection may be infused in divided doses as described above for adults .
NOTE : Severe cardiopulmonary reactions have occurred when Lincomycin injection has been given at greater than the recommended concentration and rate ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Subconjunctival Injection 0 . 25 mL ( 75 mg ) injected subconjunctivally will result in ocular fluid concentrations of antibacterial ( lasting for at least 5 hours ) sufficient for most susceptible pathogens .
Patients with Renal Impairment When therapy with Lincomycin is required in individuals with severe renal impairment , an appropriate dose is 25 to 30 % of that recommended for patients with normally functioning kidneys ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Lincomycin Injection , USP is available as a sterile , clear , and colorless solution in the following strength and package sizes : 300 mg / mL 2 mL Vials — NDC 39822 - 0350 - 1 NDC 39822 - 0350 - 2 ( 10 pack ) 10 mL Vials — NDC 39822 - 0353 - 5 NDC 39822 - 0353 - 6 ( 10 pack ) Each mL of Lincomycin Injection , USP contains 300 mg lincomycin ( equivalent to 340 mg lincomycin hydrochloride , USP ) ; also benzyl alcohol , 9 . 45 mg added as preservative .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY In vivo experimental animal studies demonstrated the effectiveness of Lincomycin preparations ( lincomycin ) in protecting animals infected with Streptococcus viridans , β - hemolyticStreptococcus , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae and Leptospira pomona .
It was ineffective in Klebsiella , Pasteurella , Pseudomonas , Salmonella and Shigella infections .
PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITIES Physically compatible for 24 hours at room temperature unless otherwise indicated .
Infusion Solutions 5 % Dextrose Injection 10 % Dextrose Injection 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 10 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer ' s Injection 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection Travert ® 10 % - Electrolyte No . 1 Dextran in Saline 6 % w / v Vitamins in Infusion Solutions B - Complex B - Complex with Ascorbic Acid Antibacterial in Infusion Solutions Penicillin G Sodium ( Satisfactory for 4 hours ) Cephalothin Tetracycline HCl Cephaloridine Colistimethate ( Satisfactory for 4 hours ) Ampicillin Methicillin Chloramphenicol Polymyxin B Sulfate Physically Incompatible with : Novobiocin Kanamycin IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT THE COMPATIBLE AND INCOMPATIBLE DETERMINATIONS ARE PHYSICAL OBSERVATIONS ONLY , NOT CHEMICAL DETERMINATIONS .
ADEQUATE CLINICAL EVALUATION OF THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF THESE COMBINATIONS HAS NOT BEEN PERFORMED .
Manufactured in Germany Manufactured for : XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Revised : 04 / 2022 LC - PI - 14 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Label and Carton XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
NDC 39822 - 0353 - 5 Lincomycin Injection , USP 300 mg / mL 10 mL Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
NDC 39822 - 0353 - 6 Lincomycin Injection , USP 300 mg / mL 10 mL vial multi - carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Label XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
NDC 39822 - 0350 - 1 Lincomycin Injection , USP 300 mg / mL 2 mL Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
NDC 39822 - 0350 - 2 Lincomycin Injection , USP 300 mg / mL 2 mL Vial multi - carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
