Drug Facts Active ingredient 4 % Chlorhexidine gluconate w / v Purpose Antiseptic Use preoperative cleaning of healthcare personnel arms and hands .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • as a preoperative skin preparation of the face or head • in eyes , ears and mouth • if you have a sensitivity to chlorhexidine gluconate or its components .
When using this product • avoid contact with meninges • chlorhexidine gluconate has been reported to cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated ear drums • chlorhexidine gluconate solution has been reported to cause serious and permanent eye injury when it has been permitted to enter and remain in the eye during surgical procedures • if chlorhexidine gluconate solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if adverse reactions occur .
Irritation , sensitization and generalized allergic reactions have been reported with chlorhexidine - containing products , especially in the genital areas .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , gets in eye or ear , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • wet hands and forearms to the elbows with warm water • use nail cleaner and apply scrub solution from sponge side • work up lather • scrub nails , cuticles and interdigital spaces thoroughly for 3 minutes with brush side and hands and forearms with the sponge side • rinse with warm water • repeat scrub for 3 more minutes , use the sponge side only .
Add water as necessary to produce the desired level of suds .
• rinse hands and arms thoroughly • dry thoroughly Other information • avoid excessive heat 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) • discard after single use .
Inactive ingredients FD & C red # 40 , hydrochloric acid , lauramide DEA , nonoxynol - 12 , peg - 6000 distearate , peg - 75 lanolin , purified water USP , sodium hydroxide Questions ?
1 - 800 - 453 - 4538 Monday to Friday , 8 a . m . to 5 p . m . MST Principal Display Panel – Carton Label BD BD E - Z Scrub ™ 107 Surgical Scrub Brush / Sponge and Nail Cleaner with 4 % Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % CHG CONTAINS : 30 NOTE : SEE BACK PANEL FOR EASY INSTRUCTIONS REF 371073 NDC 17271 - 107 - 03 U . S . Patent 5 , 164 , 107 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
