* Potency expressed as oxiconazole Rx only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY — NOT FOR ORAL , OPHTHALMIC OR INTRAVAGINAL USE DESCRIPTION OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % contains the antifungal active compound oxiconazole nitrate .
This formulation is for topical dermatologic use only .
Chemically , oxiconazole nitrate is 2 ' , 4 ' - dichloro - 2 - imidazol - 1 - ylacetophenone ( Z ) - [ 0 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl ) oxime ] , mononitrate .
The compound has the molecular formula C18H13ON3Cl4 · HNO3 , a molecular weight of 492 . 15 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxiconazole nitrate is a nearly white crystalline powder , soluble in methanol ; sparingly soluble in ethanol , chloroform , and acetone ; and very slightly soluble in water .
OXISTAT Lotion contains 10 mg of oxiconazole per gram of lotion in a white to off - white , opaque lotion base of purified water , white petrolatum , stearyl alcohol , propylene glycol , polysorbate 60 , cetyl alcohol , and benzoic acid 0 . 2 % as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics The penetration of oxiconazole nitrate into different layers of the skin was assessed using an in vitro permeation technique with human skin .
Five hours after application of 2 . 5 mg / cm2 of oxiconazole nitrate cream onto human skin , the concentration of oxiconazole nitrate was demonstrated to be 16 . 2 μmol in the epidermis , 3 . 64 μmol in the upper corium , and 1 . 29 μmol in the deeper corium .
Systemic absorption of oxiconazole nitrate is low .
Using radiolabeled drug , less than 0 . 3 % of the applied dose of oxiconazole nitrate was recovered in the urine of volunteer subjects up to 5 days after application of the cream formulation .
Neither in vitro nor in vivo studies have been conducted to establish relative activity between the lotion and cream formulations .
Microbiology Oxiconazole nitrate is an imidazole derivative whose antifungal activity is derived primarily from the inhibition of ergosterol biosynthesis , which is critical for cellular membrane integrity .
It has in vitro activity against a wide range of pathogenic fungi .
Oxiconazole has been shown to be active against most strains of the following organisms both in vitro and in clinical infections at indicated body sites ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) : Epidermophyton floccosum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum Malassezia furfur The following in vitro data are available ; however , their clinical significance is unknown .
Oxiconazole exhibits satisfactory in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) against most strains of the following organisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of oxiconazole in treating clinical infections due to these organisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : Candida albicans Microsporum audouini Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Trichophyton tonsurans Trichophyton violaceum INDICATIONS AND USAGE OXISTAT Lotion is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , or Epidermophyton floccosum ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS OXISTAT Lotion is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of their components .
WARNINGS OXISTAT ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % is for topical use only and not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
PRECAUTIONS General OXISTAT Lotion is for external dermal use only .
Avoid introduction of OXISTAT Lotion into the mouth , eyes , or vagina .
If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of OXISTAT Lotion , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
If signs of epidermal irritation should occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Information for Patients The patient should be instructed to : • 1 .
Use OXISTAT as directed by the physician .
The hands should be washed after applying the medication to the affected area ( s ) .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and other mucous membranes .
OXISTAT is for external use only .
• 2 .
Use the medication for the full treatment time recommended by the physician , even though symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 2 to 4 weeks , or sooner if the condition worsens ( see below ) .
• 3 .
Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing .
• 4 .
Avoid the use of occlusive dressings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• 5 .
Do not use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
Drug Interactions Potential drug interactions between OXISTAT and other drugs have not been systematically evaluated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Although no long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no evidence of mutagenic effect was found in 2 mutation assays ( Ames test and Chinese hamster V79 in vitro cell mutation assay ) or in 2 cytogenetic assays ( human peripheral blood lymphocyte in vitro chromosome aberration assay and in vivo micronucleus assay in mice ) .
Reproductive studies revealed no impairment of fertility in rats at oral doses of 3 mg / kg / day in females ( 1 time the human dose based on mg / m2 ) and 15 mg / kg / day in males ( 4 times the human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
However , at doses above this level , the following effects were observed : a reduction in the fertility parameters of males and females , a reduction in the number of sperm in vaginal smears , extended estrous cycle , and a decrease in mating frequency .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits , rats , and mice at oral doses up to 100 , 150 , and 200 mg / kg / day ( 57 , 40 , and 27 times the human dose based on mg / m2 ) , respectively , and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to oxiconazole nitrate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Because oxiconazole is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when the drug is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use A limited number of patients at or above 60 years of age ( n ~ 396 ) have been treated with oxiconazole nitrate cream in US and non - US clinical trials , and a limited number ( n = 43 ) have been treated with OXISTAT Lotion in US clinical trials .
The number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety .
No adverse events were reported with OXISTAT Lotion in geriatric patients , and the adverse reactions reported with oxiconazole nitrate cream in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of OXISTAT Lotion in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a controlled , multicenter clinical trial of 269 patients treated with oxiconazole nitrate lotion , 1 % , 7 ( 2 . 6 % ) reported adverse reactions thought to be related to drug therapy .
These reactions included burning and stinging ( 0 . 7 % each ) and pruritus , scaling , tingling , pain , and dyshidrotic eczema ( 0 . 4 % each ) .
The following additional adverse experiences have been reported with the topical use of oxiconazole nitrate : irritation and allergic contact dermatitis , folliculitis , erythema , papules , fissure , maceration , rash , and nodules .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE When 5 % oxiconazole cream ( 5 times the concentration of the marketed product ) was applied at a rate of 1 g / kg to approximately 10 % of body surface area of a group of 40 male and female rats for 35 days , 3 deaths and severe dermal inflammation were reported .
No overdoses in humans have been reported with use of oxiconazole nitrate cream or lotion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION OXISTAT Lotion should be applied to affected and immediately surrounding areas once to twice daily in patients with tinea pedis , tinea corporis , or tinea cruris .
Tinea corporis and tinea cruris should be treated for 2 weeks and tinea pedis for 1 month to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
CLINICAL STUDIES The following definitions were applied to the clinical and microbiological outcomes in patients enrolled in the clinical trial that form the basis for the approval of OXISTAT Lotion .
Definitions • 1 .
Mycological Cure : No evidence ( culture and KOH preparation ) of the baseline ( original ) pathogen in a specimen from the affected area taken at the 2 - week post - treatment visit ( for tinea [ pityriasis ] versicolor , mycological cure was limited to KOH only ) .
• 2 .
Treatment Success : Both a global evaluation of 90 % clinical improvement and a microbiologic eradication ( see above ) at the 2 - week post - treatment visit .
Tinea Pedis The clinical trial for the lotion formulation line extension involved 332 evaluable patients with clinically and microbiologically established tinea pedis .
Of these evaluable patients , 64 % were diagnosed with hyperkeratotic plantar tinea pedis and 28 % with interdigital tinea pedis .
Seventy - seven percent ( 77 % ) had disease secondary to infection with Trichophyton rubrum , 18 % had disease secondary to infection with Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and 4 % had disease secondary to infection with Epidermophyton floccosum .
The results of this clinical trial at the 2 - week post - treatment follow - up visit are shown in the following table : Patient Outcome OXISTAT Lotion Vehicle b . i . d . q . d . Mycological cure 67 % 64 % 28 % Treatment success 41 % 34 % 10 % In this study , the improvement and cure rates of the b . i . d . - and q . d . - treated groups did not differ significantly ( 95 % confidence interval ) from each other but were statistically ( 95 % confidence interval ) superior to the vehicle - treated group .
HOW SUPPLIED OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % is supplied in : 30 - mL bottle ( NDC 62559 - 285 - 30 ) 60 - mL bottle ( NDC 62559 - 285 - 60 ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Shake well before using .
OXISTAT is a registered trademark of Fougera Pharmaceuticals , Inc . and is licensed to ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] N7000 Rev 05 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62559 - 285 - 30 OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % * * Potency expressed as oxiconazole .
For Topical Dermatologic Use ONLY .
Not for Oral , Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only 30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
