Active ingredient ( in each applicator ) Tioconazole 300 mg ( 6 . 5 % ) Purpose Vaginal antifungal Use • • treats vaginal yeast infections Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS When using this product • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted disease ( STDs ) .
• • do not have vaginal intercourse • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms do not get better after 3 days • • symptoms last more than 7 days • • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • before using this product , read the enclosed brochure and instructions on printed packet for complete directions and information • • adults and children 12 years of age and over : • • open the printed packet just before use and remove purple cap • • insert entire contents of applicator into the vagina at bedtime .
Throw applicator away after use .
• • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • • this product is a 1 - dose treatment .
Most women do not experience complete relief of their symptoms in just one day .
Most women experience some relief within one day and complete relief of symptoms within 7 days .
• • if you have questions about vaginal yeast infections , consult your doctor • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • • see end flap of carton for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxyanisole , magnesium aluminum silicate , white petrolatum Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information 1 - DOSE TREATMENT Tioconazole Ointment 6 . 5 % VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL EDUCATIONAL BROCHURE Please read this educational brochure completely before using this product .
USE : treats vaginal yeast infections 1 THIS PRODUCT CURES MOST RECURRENT VAGINAL YEAST INFECTIONS IF THIS IS THE FIRST TIME YOU HAVE HAD VAGINAL ITCH AND DISCOMFORT , CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR .
IF YOU HAVE HAD A DOCTOR DIAGNOSE A VAGINAL YEAST INFECTION BEFORE AND HAVE THE SAME SYMPTOMS NOW , USE THIS OINTMENT AS DIRECTED .
THIS PRODUCT IS FOR THE TREATMENT OF RECURRENT VAGINAL YEAST INFECTIONS ONLY .
IT DOES NOT TREAT OTHER INFECTIONS AND DOES NOT PREVENT PREGNANCY .
This product , a vaginal ointment that contains an antifungal medicine , works to cure most recurrent vaginal yeast infections by killing the overgrowth of yeast .
2 WHAT IS A VAGINAL YEAST INFECTION ( CANDIDIASIS ) ?
A yeast infection is caused by an organism called Candida , which is a type of yeast .
Healthy women usually have this yeast in the vagina .
Either an overgrowth or rapid growth of this yeast can cause a vaginal yeast infection .
The symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection can include any or all of the following : • • Vaginal itching – Itching can range from mild to intense .
• • Vaginal discharge – This discharge may be thick like paste or lumpy like cottage cheese .
• • Vaginal soreness , burning or irritation – The vagina can feel sore inside or there can be a burning sensation , particularly during vaginal intercourse .
• • Rash or redness – Rash or redness may occur around the vagina ( vulvar irritation ) .
NOTE : Vaginal discharge that is different from the above , for example , a yellow / green discharge or a discharge that smells " fishy " ( foul - smelling ) , may indicate that you have something other than a yeast infection .
If this is the case , you should consult your doctor before using this product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 WHAT ARE THE REASONS YOU GET VAGINAL YEAST INFECTIONS ?
There are several conditions that can cause too much yeast to grow inside the vagina such as : • • Hormonal changes – Changes in hormonal levels can occur during pregnancy , with the use of some birth control pills , and just before a woman ' s menstrual period .
• • Antibiotics – Because antibiotics can kill the normal bacteria in the vagina , yeast may grow very quickly .
• • Diabetes – Diabetes can also make a woman more likely to get a vaginal yeast infection .
• • Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) – Various medical conditions can damage the body ' s normal defenses against infection .
One of the most serious of these conditions is infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Infection with HIV causes the body to be more susceptible to infections , including vaginal yeast infections .
Women with HIV infection may have frequent vaginal yeast infections or , especially , vaginal yeast infections that do not clear up easily with proper treatment .
If you may have been exposed to HIV and are experiencing either frequent recurring vaginal yeast infections or , especially , vaginal yeast infections that do not clear up easily with proper treatment , you should see your doctor promptly .
If you wish further information on risk factors for HIV infection or on the relationship between recurrent or persistent vaginal yeast infections and HIV infection , please contact your doctor or the CDC National AIDS HOTLINE .
The CDC phone numbers are : 1 - 800 - 232 - 4636 ( English / Spanish ) , or 1 - 888 - 232 - 6348 ( hearing impaired , TTY ) .
4 WARNINGS For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• • vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS When using this product • • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted disease ( STDs ) .
• • do not have vaginal intercourse • • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur • • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms do not get better after 3 days • • symptoms last more than 7 days • • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
5 WHEN CAN YOU EXPECT SYMPTOM RELIEF ?
While this product is a 1 - dose treatment , most women do not experience complete relief of their symptoms in just 1 day .
Most women experience some improvement within 1 day and complete relief of symptoms within 7 days .
If your symptoms do not improve in 3 days or if you still have symptoms after 7 days , consult your doctor .
Your doctor may recommend other treatment , or you may have a condition other than a yeast infection .
If your symptoms return within 2 months or if you think you have been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS , consult your doctor immediately .
Recurring yeast infections may be a sign of pregnancy or a serious condition , such as AIDS or diabetes .
6 HOW TO USE TIOCONAZOLE OINTMENT 6 . 5 % This product comes in a pre - filled , single - dose applicator .
Directions for use : • • Read the full directions printed below and on the printed packet carefully before using .
• • Bedtime is the best time to apply this product .
• • Open the printed packet just before use .
• • Remove the applicator and plunger from the printed packet .
The applicator is pre - filled with vaginal ointment .
• • While firmly holding the purple - capped end of the applicator , push the tip of the plunger into the base of applicator .
Fig . 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • REMOVE PURPLE CAPfrom the top of the applicator using a pull - twist action .
Fig . 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Lie on your back with your knees bent .
Gently insert applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
Fig . 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Push the plunger into the applicator until it will go no farther .
Withdraw the applicator and plunger and dispose of it in the wastebasket .
Do not flush .
Fig . 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] • • DO NOT USE TAMPONS while using this medicine .
Use sanitary napkins instead .
7 ADVERSE REACTIONS ( SIDE EFFECTS ) A temporary increase in vaginal burning , itching and / or irritation may be experienced upon insertion of this ointment .
These reactions , in addition to vaginal swelling or redness ; difficulty or burning on urination ; headache ; abdominal pain / cramping and upper respiratory infection have been reported with the use of this product .
If you experience any of these , consult your doctor .
8 COMMON QUESTIONS ABOUT VAGINAL YEAST INFECTIONS AND TIOCONAZOLE OINTMENT 6 . 5 % Q . Should I use this product while I have my period ?
You should use this product while menstruating but you should not use tampons following application .
Use sanitary napkins instead .
Q . Can I have sex while using this product ?
It is generally recommended not to have vaginal intercourse the first few nights after treatment with this product .
Q . Can I use a condom or diaphragm while using this product ?
No .
This product contains petrolatum which may damage the latex from which condoms and diaphragms are made and may cause them to fail .
This may reduce their effectiveness in preventing sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy .
You should wait 3 days after treatment to resume using condoms or your diaphragm .
Q . Does my partner need to be treated ?
Yeast infections occur less frequently in men than in women .
However , if your partner has any of the following symptoms : itching , redness or discomfort in the genital area , he should see a doctor and mention that you are treating a vaginal yeast infection .
Q . Can I use feminine hygiene products ( such as douche ) while I have a vaginal yeast infection ?
It is best not to use any vaginal preparations while you have a yeast infection including douches , feminine hygiene sprays , contraceptive foams , inserts , or jellies .
9 FOR BEST RESULTS • • Wear cotton underwear and loose - fitting clothes – Yeast grow in warm , moist environments .
Wearing loose - fitting , cotton clothes helps create a cooler environment , which makes it more difficult for yeast to grow .
• • Change out of a wet bathing suit quickly – Dampness is more likely to encourage the growth of yeast .
• • Use proper hygiene – Wipe from front to rear ( away from vagina ) after a bowel movement or urination .
• • Discuss with your doctor any medication you are now taking – Certain types of medication can make your vagina more prone to infection .
If you have any other questions or concerns about vaginal yeast infections or of a medical nature , do n't hesitate to consult your doctor .
If you have questions or comments about this product , call our toll - free number 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
CONTENTS Active ingredient : Tioconazole 300 mg ( 6 . 5 % per applicator ) .
Inactive ingredients : Butylated hydroxyanisole , magnesium aluminum silicate and white petrolatum .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Do not use if printed packet is torn , open , or incompletely sealed .
For expiration date and lot number , see carton end flap and applicator printed packet .
Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 : 42600 00 J4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Compare to Monistat ® 1 active ingredient 1 – Dose Treatment tioconazole 1 Tioconazole Ointment ( 6 . 5 % ) Vaginal Antifungal 1 Pre - Filled Applicator Cures Most Vaginal Yeast Infections Odorless Formula Educational Brochure Enclosed NET WT 4 . 6 g ( 0 . 16 OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
