DESCRIPTION Pentamidine Isethionate , an antifungal agent , is a nonpyrogenic lyophilized product .
After reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , Pentamidine Isethionate is administered by inhalation via the Respirgard ® II nebulizer [ Marquest , Englewood , CO ] ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pentamidine isethionate , 4 , 4 ’ - [ 1 , 5 - pentane - diylbis ( oxy ) ] bis - benzenecarboximidamid , is a white crystalline powder soluble in water and glycerin and insoluble in ether , acetone , and chloroform .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each vial contains 300 mg pentamidine isethionate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Mechanism of Action Studies suggest that the pentamidine isethionate interferes with microbial nuclear metabolism by inhibition of DNA , RNA , phospholipid and protein synthesis .
However , the mode of action is not fully understood .
Activity in vitro and in vivo Pentamidine isethionate , an aromatic diamidine , is known to have activity against Pneumocystis jiroveci .
Pharmacokinetics In 5 AIDS patients with suspected Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia ( PJP ) , the mean concentrations of pentamidine determined 18 to 24 hours after inhalation therapy were 23 . 2 ng / mL ( range 5 . 1 to 43 . 0 ng / mL ) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and 705 ng / mL ( range 140 to 1336 ng / mL ) in sediment after administration of a 300 mg single dose via the Respirgard ® II nebulizer .
In 3 AIDS patients with suspected PJP , the mean concentrations of pentamidine determined 18 to 24 hours after a 4 mg / kg intravenous dose were 2 . 6 ng / mL ( range 1 . 5 to 4 . 0 ng / mL ) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and 9 . 3 ng / mL ( range 6 . 9 to 12 . 8 ng / mL ) in sediment .
In the patients who received aerosolized pentamidine , the peak plasma levels of pentamidine were at or below the lower limit of detection of the assay ( 2 . 3 ng / mL ) .
Following a single 2 - hour intravenous infusion of 4 mg / kg of pentamidine isethionate to 6 AIDS patients , the mean plasma Cmax , T 1 / 2 and clearance were 612 ± 371 ng / mL , 6 . 4 ± 1 . 3 hr and 248 ± 91 L / hr respectively .
In another study of aerosolized pentamidine in 13 AIDS patients with acute PJP who received 4 mg / kg / day administered via the Ultra Vent ® jet nebulizer , peak plasma levels of pentamidine averaged 18 . 8 ± 11 . 9 ng / mL after the first dose .
During the next 14 days of repeated dosing , the highest observed Cmax averaged 20 . 5 ± 21 . 2 ng / mL .
In a third study , following daily administration of 600 mg of inhaled pentamidine isethionate with the Respirgard ® II nebulizer for 21 days in 11 patients with acute PJP , mean plasma levels measured shortly after the 21 st dose averaged 11 . 8 ± 10 . 0 ng / mL .
Plasma concentrations after aerosol administration are substantially lower than those observed after a comparable intravenous dose .
The extent of pentamidine accumulation and distribution following chronic inhalation therapy are not known .
In rats , intravenous administration of a 5 mg / kg dose resulted in concentrations of pentamidine in the liver and kidney that were 87 . 5 and 62 . 3 - fold higher , respectively , than levels in those organs following 5 mg / kg administered as an aerosol .
No pharmacokinetic data are available following aerosol administration of pentamidine in humans with impaired hepatic or renal function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pentamidine Isethionate is indicated for the prevention of Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia ( PJP ) in high - risk , HIV - infected patients defined by one or both of the following criteria : i . a history of one or more episodes of PJP ii .
a peripheral CD4 + ( T4 helper / inducer ) lymphocyte count less than or equal to 200 / mm3 .
These indications are based on the results of an 18 - month randomized , dose - response trial in high risk HIV - infected patients and on existing epidemiological data from natural history studies .
The patient population of the controlled trial consisted of 408 patients , 237 of whom had a history of one or more episodes of PJP .
The remaining patients without a history of PJP included 55 patients with Kaposi ’ s sarcoma and 116 patients with other AIDS diagnoses , ARC or asymptomatic HIV infection .
Patients were randomly assigned to receive Pentamidine Isethionate via the Respirgard ® II nebulizer at one of the following three doses : 30 mg every two weeks ( n = 135 ) , 150 mg every two weeks ( n = 134 ) or 300 mg every four weeks ( n = 139 ) .
The results of the trial demonstrated a significant protective effect ( p < 0 . 01 ) against PJP with the 300 mg every four week dosage regimen compared to the 30 mg every two week dosage regimen .
The 300 mg dose regimen reduced the risk of developing PJP by 50 to 70 % compared to the 30 mg regimen .
A total of 293 patients ( 72 % of all patients ) also received zidovudine at some time during the trial .
The analysis of the data demonstrated the efficacy of the 300 mg dose even after adjusting for the effect of zidovudine .
The results of the trial further demonstrate that the dose and frequency of dosing are important to the efficacy of Pentamidine Isethionate prophylaxis in that multiple analyses consistently demonstrated a trend toward greater efficacy with 300 mg every four weeks as compared to 150 mg every two weeks .
No dose - response was observed for reduction in overall mortality ; however , mortality from PJP was low in all three dosage groups .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pentamidine Isethionate is contraindicated in patients with a history of an anaphylactic reaction to inhaled or parenteral pentamidine isethionate .
WARNINGS The potential for development of acute PJP still exists in patients receiving Pentamidine Isethionate prophylaxis .
Therefore , any patient with symptoms suggestive of the presence of a pulmonary infection , including but not limited to dyspnea , fever or cough , should receive a thorough medical evaluation and appropriate diagnostic tests for possible acute PJP as well as for other opportunistic and nonopportunistic pathogens .
The use of Pentamidine Isethionate may alter the clinical and radiographic features of PJP and could result in an atypical presentation , including but not limited to mild disease or focal infection .
Prior to initiating Pentamidine Isethionate prophylaxis , symptomatic patients should be evaluated appropriately to exclude the presence of PJP .
The recommended dose of Pentamidine Isethionate for the prevention of PJP is insufficient to treat acute PJP .
PRECAUTIONS IMPORTANT : DO NOT MIX THE Pentamidine Isethionate SOLUTION WITH ANY OTHER DRUGS .
DO NOT USE THE RESPIRGARD ® II NEBULIZER TO ADMINISTER A BRONCHODILATOR .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pulmonary Inhalation of Pentamidine Isethionate may induce bronchospasm or cough .
This has been noted particularly in some patients who have a history of smoking or asthma .
In clinical trials , cough and bronchospasm were the most frequently reported adverse experiences associated with Pentamidine Isethionate administration ( 38 % and 15 % , respectively of patients receiving the 300 mg dose ) ; however less than 1 % of the doses were interrupted or terminated due to these effects .
For the majority of patients , cough and bronchospasm were controlled by administration of an aerosolized bronchodilator ( only 1 % of patients withdrew from the study due to treatment - associated cough or bronchospasm ) .
In patients who experience bronchospasm or cough , administration of an inhaled bronchodilator prior to giving each Pentamidine Isethionate dose may minimize recurrence of the symptoms .
General The extent and consequence of pentamidine accumulation following chronic inhalation therapy are not known .
As a result , patients receiving Pentamidine Isethionate should be closely monitored for the development of serious adverse reactions that have occurred in patients receiving parenteral pentamidine , including hypotension , hypoglycemia , hyperglycemia , hypocalcemia , anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , hepatic or renal dysfunction , ventricular tachycardia , pancreatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , hyperkalemia and abnormal ST segment of ECG .
Extrapulmonary infection with P . jiroveci has been reported infrequently .
Most , but not all , of the cases have been reported in patients who have a history of PJP .
The presence of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis should be considered when evaluating patients with unexplained signs and symptoms .
Cases of acute pancreatitis have been reported in patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine .
Pentamidine Isethionate should be discontinued if signs or symptoms of acute pancreatitis develop .
Drug Interactions While specific studies on drug interactions with Pentamidine Isethionate have not been conducted , the majority of patients in clinical trials received concomitant medications , including zidovudine , with no reported interactions .
Because the nephrotoxic effects may be additive , the concomitant or sequential use of Pentamidine Isethionate and other nephrotoxic drugs such as aminoglycosides , amphotericin B , cisplatin , foscarnet , or vancomycin should be closely monitored and avoided , if possible .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Literature reports indicate that pentamidine was not mutagenic in the Ames bacterial ( S . typhimurium ) test and did not induce an increase in chromosomal aberrations in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cell or in human lymphocytes in vitro .
No studies have been conducted to determine effects of pentamidine isethionate on carcinogenicity or fertility .
Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well controlled studies of Pentamidine Isethionate in pregnant women .
A literature report indicated that intravenously administered pentamidine in pregnant rats at 4 mg / kg / day was embryolethal ; teratogenicity was not observed in this study .
It is unknown whether pentamidine administered via the aerosolized route crosses the placenta at clinically significant concentrations .
It is not known whether Pentamidine Isethionate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Pentamidine Isethionate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Pentamidine Isethionate is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Pentamidine Isethionate , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , Pentamidine Isethionate should not be given to a nursing mother unless the potential benefits are judged to outweigh the unknown risks .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Pentamidine Isethionate in pediatric patients ( birth to 16 years of age ) have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported unsolicited adverse events ( 1 to 5 % ) in clinical trials , regardless of their relation to Pentamidine Isethionate therapy were as follows ( n = 931 ) : Body as a Whole : Night sweats .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea and nausea .
Hematologic : Anemia .
Infection : Bronchitis , non - specific herpes , herpes zoster , non - specific influenza , oral Candida , pharyngitis , sinusitis , and upper respiratory tract .
Nervous System : Headache .
Respiratory System : Chest pain , cough , and wheezing .
Special Senses : Bad taste .
Adverse events of less than 1 % incidence were as follows ( No causal relationship to treatment has been established for these adverse events ) : Body as a Whole : Allergic reaction , non - specific allergy , body odor , facial edema , fever , leg edema , lethargy , low body temperature , and temperature abnormality .
Cardiovascular : Cerebrovascular accident , hypotension , hypertension , palpitations , poor circulation , syncope , tachycardia , vasodilatation and vasculitis .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal cramps , abdominal pain , constipation , dry mouth , dyspepsia , gastritis , gastric ulcer , gingivitis , hiatal hernia , hypersalivation , oral ulcer / abscess , splenomegaly , and vomiting .
Hematological : Eosinophilia , neutropenia , non - specific cytopenia , pancytopenia , and thrombocytopenia .
Hepatic : Hepatitis , hepatomegaly , and hepatic dysfunction .
Infection : Bacterial pneumonia , central venous line related sepsis , cryptococcal meningitis , cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) colitis , CMV retinitis , esophageal Candida , histoplasmosis , Kaposi ’ s sarcoma , non - specific mycoplasma , oral herpes , non - specific otitis , non - specific pharyngitis , pharyngeal herpes , non - specific serious infection , tonsillitis , tuberculosis , and viral encephalitis .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia , and hypocalcemia .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , gout , and myalgia .
Neurological : Anxiety , confusion , depression , drowsiness , emotional lability , hallucination , hypesthesia , insomnia , memory loss , neuralgia , neuropathy , non - specific neuropathy , nervousness , paranoia , paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy , seizure , tremors , unsteady gait , and vertigo .
Reproductive : Miscarriage .
Respiratory system : Asthma , bronchitis , bronchospasm , chest congestion , chest tightness , coryza , cyanosis , eosinophilic or interstitial pneumonitis , gagging , hemoptysis , hyperventilation , laryngitis , laryngospasm , non - specific lung disorder , nasal congestion , pleuritis , pneumothorax , rales , rhinitis , shortness of breath , non - specific sputum , and tachypnea .
Skin : Desquamation , dry and breaking hair , dry skin , erythema , non - specific dermatitis , pruritus , rash , and urticaria .
Special senses : Blepharitis , blurred vision , conjunctivitis , contact lens discomfort , eye pain or discomfort , hemianopsia , loss of taste , non - specific odor , and smell .
Urogenital : Flank pain , incontinence , nephritis , renal failure , and renal pain .
In a clinical trial where some adverse events were solicited by investigators , the incidences were as follows : Cough ( 62 . 7 % ) Decreased appetite ( 50 . 0 % ) Dizziness or light - headedness ( 45 . 1 % ) Fatigue ( 65 . 7 % ) Fever ( 51 . 0 % ) Non - specific serious infection ( 15 . 2 % ) Shortness of breath ( 48 . 3 % ) Wheezing ( 32 . 4 % ) From post - marketing clinical experience with Pentamidine Isethionate the following spontaneous adverse events have been reported : anaphylaxis , colitis , diabetes , dyspnea , esophagitis , hematochezia , increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) and serum creatinine levels , melena , pancreatitis ( see WARNINGS ) , syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( SIADH ) , and torsade de pointes .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage has not been reported with Pentamidine Isethionate .
The symptoms and signs of overdosage are not known .
A serious overdosage , to the point of producing systemic drug levels similar to those following parenteral administration , would have the potential of producing similar types of serious systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Available clinical pharmacology data ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) suggest that a dose up to 40 times the recommended Pentamidine Isethionate dosage would be required to produce systemic levels similar to a single 4 mg / kg intravenous dose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION IMPORTANT : PENTAMIDINE ISETHIONATE MUST BE DISSOLVED ONLY IN STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION , USP .
DO NOT USE SALINE SOLUTION FOR RECONSTITUTION BECAUSE THE DRUG WILL PRECIPITATE .
DO NOT MIX THE Pentamidine Isethionate SOLUTION WITH ANY OTHER DRUGS .
DO NOT USE THE RESPIRGARD ® II NEBULIZER TO ADMINISTER A BRONCHODILATOR .
Reconstitution The contents of one vial ( 300 mg ) must be dissolved in 6 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
Place the entire reconstituted contents of the vial into the Respirgard ® II nebulizer reservoir for administration .
Dosage The recommended adult dosage of Pentamidine Isethionate for the prevention of Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia is 300 mg once every four weeks administered via the Respirgard ® II nebulizer .
The dose should be delivered until the nebulizer chamber is empty ( approximately 30 to 45 minutes ) .
The flow rate should be 5 to 7 liters per minute from a 40 to 50 pounds per square inch ( PSI ) air or oxygen source .
Alternatively , a 40 to 50 PSI air compressor can be used with flow limited by setting the flowmeter at 5 to 7 liters per minute or by setting the pressure at 22 to 25 PSI .
Low pressure ( less than 20 PSI ) compressors should not be used .
Stability Freshly prepared solutions for aerosol use are recommended .
After reconstitution with sterile water , the Pentamidine Isethionate solution is stable for 48 hours in the original vial at room temperature if protected from light .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC No .
13925 - 522 - 01 Pentamidine Isethionate 300 mg lyophilized product in a single dose vials , individually packaged .
Store dry product at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect the dry product and the reconstituted solution from light .
Store dry product at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect the dry product and the reconstituted solution from light .
Manufactured for : Seton Pharmaceuticals , LLC Wall , NJ 07719 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Revised : August 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 13925 - 522 - 01 Pentamidine Isethionate for Inhalation Solution 300 mg Per Vial Lyophilized Single - Dose Vial Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
