Active ingredient Purpose Benzocaine 20 % ................................................. Oral pain reliever Uses • for the temporary relief of pain due to : • toothache • canker sores • gum pain • denture pain • cheek bites Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have use this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy Alert : do not use this product if your child has a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • irritation , pain , or redness does not go away • swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older Remove cap and cut tip of tube .
Apply a small amount of product to the cavity and around gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 12 years of age .
Should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under 2 years of age .
Do not use .
Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • this preparation is intended for use in cases of toothaches , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist or doctor can be consulted • do not use continuously Inactive ingredients : glycerin , peppermint oil , polyethylene glycol 400 , polyethylene glycol 4000 , saccharin sodium , sorbitol Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 645 - 8204 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM ( PST ) Distributed by : Perrigo Direct , Inc .
Peachtree City , GA 30269 www . PerrigoDirect . com 1 - 888 - 645 - 8204 Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
