Rx only Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets contain the synthetic allylamine antifungal compound terbinafine hydrochloride .
Chemically , terbinafine hydrochloride is ( E ) - N - ( 6 , 6 - dimethyl - 2 - hepten - 4 - ynyl ) - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethanamine hydrochloride .
The empirical formula C21H26ClN with a molecular weight of 327 . 90 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terbinafine hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in methanol and methylene chloride , soluble in ethanol , and slightly soluble in water .
Each tablet contains : Active Ingredients : terbinafine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 250 mg base ) Inactive Ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , NF ; hypromellose 6 cps , USP ; sodium starch glycolate , NF ; colloidal silicon dioxide , NF ; magnesium stearate , NF [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Following oral administration , terbinafine is well absorbed ( > 70 % ) and the bioavailability of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets as a result of first - pass metabolism is approximately 40 % .
Peak plasma concentrations of 1 µg / mL appear within 2 h after a single 250 mg dose ; the AUC ( area under the curve ) is approximately 4 . 56 µg · h / mL .
An increase in the AUC of terbinafine of less than 20 % is observed when terbinafine hydrochloride tablets is administered with food .
No clinically relevant age - dependent changes in steady - state plasma concentrations of terbinafine have been reported .
In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 50 mL / min ) or hepatic cirrhosis , the clearance of terbinafine is decreased by approximately 50 % compared to normal volunteers .
No effect of gender on the blood levels of terbinafine was detected in clinical trials .
In plasma , terbinafine is > 99 % bound to plasma proteins and there are no specific binding sites .
At steady - state , in comparison to a single dose , the peak concentration of terbinafine is 25 % higher and plasma AUC increases by a factor of 2 . 5 ; the increase in plasma AUC is consistent with an effective half - life of ~ 36 hours .
Terbinafine is distributed to the sebum and skin .
A terminal half - life of 200 - 400 h may represent the slow elimination of terbinafine from tissues such as skin and adipose .
Prior to excretion , terbinafine is extensively metabolized .
No metabolites have been identified that have antifungal activity similar to terbinafine .
Approximately 70 % of the administered dose is eliminated in the urine .
Microbiology Terbinafine hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
Terbinafine hydrochloride is hypothesized to act by inhibiting squalene epoxidase , thus blocking the biosynthesis of ergosterol , an essential component of fungal cell membranes .
In vitro , mammalian squalene epoxidase is only inhibited at higher ( 4000 fold ) concentrations than is needed for inhibition of the dermatophyte enzyme .
Depending on the concentration of the drug and the fungal species test in vitro , terbinafine hydrochloride may be fungicidal .
However , the clinical significance of in vitro data is unknown .
Terbinafine has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
In vitro , terbinafine exhibits satisfactory MIC ' s against most strains of the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of terbinafine in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : Candida albicans Epidermophyton floccosum Scopulariopsis brevicaulis CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets in the treatment of onychomycosis is illustrated by the response of patients with toenail and / or fingernail infections who participated in three US / Canadian placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Results of the first toenail study , as assessed at week 48 ( 12 weeks of treatment with 36 weeks follow - up after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure , defined as simultaneous occurrence of negative KOH plus negative culture , in 70 % of patients .
Fifty - nine percent ( 59 % ) of patients experienced effective treatment ( mycological cure plus 0 % nail involvement or > 5 mm of new unaffected nail growth ) ; 38 % of patients demonstrated mycological cure plus clinical cure ( 0 % nail involvement ) .
In a second toenail study of dermatophytic onychomycosis , in which non - dermatophytes were also cultured , similar efficacy against the dermatophytes was demonstrated .
The pathogenic role of the non - dermatophytes cultured in the presence of dermatophytic onychomycosis has not been established .
The clinical significance of this association is unknown .
Results of the fingernail study , as assessed at week 24 ( 6 weeks of treatment with 18 weeks follow - up after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure in 79 % of patients , effective treatment in 75 % of the patients , and mycological cure plus clinical cure in 59 % of the patients .
The mean time to overall success was approximately 10 months for the first toenail study and 4 months for the fingernail study .
In the first toenail study , for patients evaluated at least six months after achieving clinical cure and at least one year after completing terbinafine hydrochloride tablets therapy , the clinical relapse rate was approximately 15 % .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes ( tinea unguium ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Prior to initiating treatment , appropriate nail specimens for laboratory testing ( KOH preparation , fungal culture , or nail biopsy ) should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis of onychomycosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in individuals with hypersensitivity to terbinafine or to any other ingredients of the formulation .
WARNINGS Rare cases of liver failure , some leading to death or liver transplant , have occurred with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets for the treatment of onychomycosis in individuals with and without pre - existing liver disease .
In the majority of liver cases reported in association with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets use , the patients had serious underlying systemic conditions and an uncertain causal association with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
The severity of hepatic events and / or their outcome may be worse in patients with active or chronic liver disease ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued if biochemical or clinical evidence of liver injury develops ( see PRECAUTIONS below ) .
There have been isolated reports of serious skin reactions ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) .
If progressive skin rash occurs , treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients with chronic or active liver disease .
Before prescribing terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , pre - existing liver disease should be assessed .
Hepatotoxicity may occur in patients with and without pre - existing liver disease .
Pretreatment serum transaminase ( ALT and AST ) tests are advised for all patients before taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Patients prescribed terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be warned to report immediately to their physician any symptoms of persistent nausea , anorexia , fatigue , vomiting , right upper abdominal pain or jaundice , dark urine or pale stools ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patients with these symptoms should discontinue taking oral terbinafine , and the patient ' s liver function should be immediately evaluated .
In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 50 mL / min ) , the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets has not been adequately studied , and therefore , is not recommended ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
During postmarketing experience , precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported infrequently in patients taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets therapy should be discontinued in patients with clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of lupus erythematosus .
Changes in the ocular lens and retina have been reported following the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets in controlled trials .
The clinical significance of these changes is unknown .
Transient decreases in absolute lymphocyte counts ( ALC ) have been observed in controlled clinical trials .
In placebo - controlled trials , 8 / 465 terbinafine hydrochloride tablets - treated patients ( 1 . 7 % ) and 3 / 137 placebo - treated patients ( 2 . 2 % ) had decreases in ALC to below 1000 / mm3 on two or more occasions .
The clinical significance of this observation is unknown .
However , in patients with known or suspected immunodeficiency , physicians should consider monitoring complete blood counts in individuals using terbinafine hydrochloride tablets therapy for greater than six weeks .
Isolated cases of severe neutropenia have been reported .
These were reversible upon discontinuation of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , with or without supportive therapy .
If clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of secondary infection occur , a complete blood count should be obtained .
If the neutrophil count is ≤ 1 , 000 cells / mm3 , terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued and supportive management started .
Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme .
Drugs predominantly metabolized by the CYP450 2D6 isozyme include the following drug classes : tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , beta - blockers , antiarrhythmics class 1 C ( e . g . , flecainide and propafenone ) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors Type B . Coadministration of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be done with careful monitoring and may require a reduction in dose of the 2D6 - metabolized drug .
In a study to assess the effects of terbinafine on desipramine in healthy volunteers characterized as normal metabolizers , the administration of terbinafine resulted in a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and a 5 - fold increase in AUC .
In this study , these effects were shown to persist at the last observation at 4 weeks after discontinuation of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
In vitro studies with human liver microsomes showed that terbinafine does not inhibit the metabolism of tolbutamide , ethinylestradiol , ethoxycoumarin , and cyclosporine .
In vivo drug - drug interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteer subjects showed that terbinafine does not affect the clearance of antipyrine or digoxin .
Terbinafine decreases the clearance of caffeine by 19 % .
Terbinafine increases the clearance of cyclosporine by 15 % .
There have been spontaneous reports of increase or decrease in prothrombin times in patients concomitantly taking oral terbinafine and warfarin , however , a causal relationship between terbinafine hydrochloride tablets and these changes has not been established .
Terbinafine clearance is increased 100 % by rifampin , a CYP450 enzyme inducer , and decreased 33 % by cimetidine , a CYP450 enzyme inhibitor .
Terbinafine clearance is unaffected by cyclosporine .
There is no information available from adequate drug - drug interaction studies with the following classes of drugs : oral contraceptives , hormone replacement therapies , hypoglycemics , theophyllines , phenytoins , thiazide diuretics , and calcium channel blockers .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 28 - month oral carcinogenicity study in rats , an increase in the incidence of liver tumors was observed in males at the highest dose tested , 69 mg / kg / day [ 2 x the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on AUC comparisons of the parent terbinafine ] ; however , even though dose - limiting toxicity was not achieved at the highest tested dose , higher doses were not tested .
The results of a variety of in vitro ( mutations in E . coli and S . typhimurium , DNA repair in rat hepatocytes , mutagenicity in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , chromosome aberration and sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster lung cells ) , and in vivo ( chromosome aberration in Chinese hamsters , micronucleus test in mice ) genotoxicity tests gave no evidence of a mutagenic or clastogenic potential .
Oral reproduction studies in rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 x the MRHD based on body surface area comparisons , BSA ) did not reveal any specific effects on fertility or other reproductive parameters .
Intravaginal application of terbinafine hydrochloride at 150 mg / day in pregnant rabbits did not increase the incidence of abortions or premature deliveries nor affect fetal parameters .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Oral reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 12 x to 23 x the MRHD , in rabbits and rats , respectively , based on BSA ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to terbinafine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , and because treatment of onychomycosis can be postponed until after pregnancy is completed , it is recommended that terbinafine hydrochloride tablets not be initiated during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers After oral administration , terbinafine is present in breast milk of nursing mothers .
The ratio of terbinafine in milk to plasma is 7 : 1 .
Treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets is not recommended in nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets have not been established in pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse events observed in the three US / Canadian placebo - controlled trials are listed in the table below .
The adverse events reported encompass gastrointestinal symptoms ( including diarrhea , dyspepsia , and abdominal pain ) , liver test abnormalities , rashes , urticaria , pruritus , and taste disturbances .
In general , the adverse events were mild , transient , and did not lead to discontinuation from study participation .
* Liver enzyme abnormalities ≥ 2 x the upper limit of the normal range .
Adverse Event Discontinuation Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets ( % ) n = 465 Placebo ( % ) n = 137 Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets ( % ) n = 465 Placebo ( % ) n = 137 Headache 12 . 9 9 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Gastrointestinal Symptoms : Diarrhea 5 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 6 0 . 0 Dyspepsia 4 . 3 2 . 9 0 . 4 0 . 0 Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 1 . 5 0 . 4 0 . 0 Nausea 2 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 2 0 . 0 Flatulence 2 . 2 2 . 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 Dermatological Symptoms : Rash 5 . 6 2 . 2 0 . 9 0 . 7 Pruritus 2 . 8 1 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Urticaria 1 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 Liver Enzyme Abnormalities * 3 . 3 1 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 0 Taste Disturbance 2 . 8 0 . 7 0 . 2 0 . 0 Visual Disturbance 1 . 1 1 . 5 0 . 9 0 . 0 Adverse events , based on worldwide experience with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets use , include : idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatic injury and more rarely , cases of liver failure , some leading to death or liver transplant , ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , serious skin reactions ( see WARNINGS ) , severe neutropenia ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , thrombocytopenia , angioedema and allergic reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) .
Psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis and precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets may cause taste disturbance ( including taste loss ) which usually recovers within several weeks after discontinuation of the drug .
There have been reports of prolonged ( greater than one year ) taste disturbance .
Taste disturbances associated with oral terbinafine have been reported to be severe enough to result in decreased food intake leading to significant and unwanted weight loss .
Other adverse reactions which have been reported include malaise , fatigue , vomiting , arthralgia , myalgia , and hair loss .
Clinical adverse effects reported spontaneously since the drug was marketed include altered prothrombin time ( prolongation and reduction ) in patients concomitantly treated with warfarin and terbinafine hydrochloride tablets and agranulocytosis ( rare ) .
OVERDOSAGE Clinical experience regarding overdose with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets is limited .
Doses up to 5 grams ( 20 times the therapeutic daily dose ) have been taken without inducing serious adverse reactions .
The symptoms of overdose included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , dizziness , rash , frequent urination , and headache .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , one 250 mg tablet , should be taken once daily for 6 weeks by patients with fingernail onychomycosis .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , one 250 mg tablet , should be taken once daily for 12 weeks by patients with toenail onychomycosis .
The optimal clinical effect is seen some months after mycological cure and cessation of treatment .
This is related to the period required for outgrowth of healthy nail .
HOW SUPPLIED Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets 250 mg , supplied as white circular , bi - convex , bevelled tablets embossed with ‘ W ’ on one side and ‘ 743 ’ on other side .
Bottles of 30 tablets ................................
NDC 64679 - 743 - 01 Bottles of 1000 tablets ............................ NDC 64679 - 743 - 02 Bottles of 100 tablets .............................. NDC 64679 - 743 - 03 Cartons of 1 blister card ( 30 tablets ) ......
NDC 64679 - 743 - 05 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; in a tight container .
Protect from light .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY A wide range of in vivo studies in mice , rats , dogs , and monkeys , and in vitro studies using rat , monkey , and human hepatocytes suggest that peroxisome proliferation in the liver is a rat - specific finding .
However , other effects , including increased liver weights and APTT , occurred in dogs and monkeys at doses giving Css trough levels of the parent terbinafine 2 - 3 x those seen in humans at the MRHD .
Higher doses were not tested .
Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited , Mumbai , India .
Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Rev . 190809 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
