1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PHEBURANE is indicated as adjunctive therapy to standard of care , which includes dietary management , for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) , involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
Limitations of Use Episodes of acute hyperammonemia may occur in patients while on PHEBURANE .
PHEBURANE is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia , which can be a life - threatening medical emergency that requires rapid acting interventions to reduce plasma ammonia levels .
PHEBURANE is a nitrogen - binding agent indicated as adjunctive therapy to standard of care , which includes dietary management , for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) , involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use PHEBURANE is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • PHEBURANE treatment should be supervised by a healthcare provider experienced in the treatment of UCDs .
For administration , see full prescribing information .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) • The recommended dosage measured as sodium phenylbutyrate is : • Patients weighing < 20 kg : 450 – 600 mg / kg / day of sodium phenylbutyrate orally .
( 2 . 1 ) • Patients weighing ≥ 20 kg : 9 . 9 – 13 . 0 g / m2 / day of sodium phenylbutyrate orally .
( 2 . 1 ) • Monitor plasma ammonia levels to determine the need for dosage adjustment .
( 2 . 2 ) • Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity .
( 2 . 2 ) • For patients with hepatic impairment , start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage PHEBURANE treatment should be supervised by a healthcare provider experienced in the treatment of urea cycle disorders .
The recommended dosage of PHEBURANE ( measured as sodium phenylbutyrate ) for patients with urea cycle disorders is : • Patients weighing less than 20 kg : 450 – 600 mg / kg / day of sodium phenylbutyrate orally .
Divide the calculated total daily dose into three to six doses .
Administer as three to six divided doses and take with food .
• Patients weighing greater than or equal to 20 kg : 9 . 9 – 13 g / m2 / day of sodium phenylbutyrate orally .
Divide the calculated total daily dose into three to six doses .
Administer as three to six divided doses and take with food .
The maximum dosage is 20 grams per day .
Combine PHEBURANE with dietary protein restriction and , in some cases , amino acid supplementation ( e . g . , essential amino acids , arginine , citrulline , and protein - free calorie supplements ) .
Measure the dose using only the calibrated spoon provided in the packaging .
This calibrated dosing spoon directly measures PHEBURANE oral pellets as sodium phenylbutyrate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
If a dose is missed , take the missed dose as soon as possible .
There should be at least 3 hours between two doses and doses should not be doubled to make up for the missed dose .
2 . 2 Dosage Adjustment and Monitoring Monitor plasma ammonia levels to determine the need for dosage adjustment .
Adjust the PHEBURANE dosage to maintain the plasma ammonia level within the normal range for the patient ’ s age , taking into consideration their clinical condition ( e . g . , nutritional requirements , protein intake , growth parameters , etc . ) .
Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity and obtain measurements of plasma phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
If neurologic symptoms ( e . g . vomiting , nausea , headache , somnolence or confusion ) are present in the absence of high ammonia levels or other intercurrent illnesses , consider reducing the dose of PHEBURANE .
2 . 3 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with hepatic impairment , start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range and maintain patients on the lowest dose necessary to control plasma ammonia levels [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
2 . 4 Administration Instructions For oral administration only .
Administration via gastrostomy or nasogastric tubes has not been evaluated .
• Schedule PHEBURANE dosages at the same time as food consumption ( meal or snack ) .
• Use the calibrated dosing spoon to measure PHEBURANE oral pellets .
The dosing spoon is directly calibrated in grams of sodium phenylbutyrate .
• Swallow the coated oral pellets with a drink ( e . g . , water , fruit juices , protein - free infant formulas ) or sprinkle onto spoonful of apple sauce or carrot puree .
Do not chew PHEBURANE oral pellets directly or mix into liquids .
• Swallow immediately to minimize dissolution of coating .
Administration of PHEBURANE oral pellets with other foods has not been studied and is not recommended .
Additionally , administration with soft food is only recommended in patients old enough to consume soft foods .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral pellets : 84 g of sodium phenylbutyrate per PHEBURANE bottle as white to off - white coated pellets .
Oral pellets : 84 g of sodium phenylbutyrate per bottle .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Neurotoxicity of Phenylacetate : Increased exposure to phenylacetate , the major metabolite of PHEBURANE , may be associated with neurotoxicity in patients with UCDs .
Consider reducing the dose if neurotoxicity symptoms are present .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypokalemia : Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine may induce urinary loss of potassium .
Monitor serum potassium during therapy and initiate appropriate treatment when necessary .
( 5 . 2 ) • Conditions Associated with Edema : Calculate the total amount of sodium patients will be exposed to based on their weight or body surface area .
If a patient develops new - onset edema or worsening edema while on treatment , discontinue administration of PHEBURANE and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Diabetes Mellitus , Hereditary Fructose Intolerance , Glucose - Galactose Malabsorption or Sucrase - Isomaltase Insufficiency : Avoid use of PHEBURANE in patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose intolerance , glucose - galactose malabsorption or sucrase - isomaltase insufficiency .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Neurotoxicity of Phenylacetate Increased exposure to phenylacetate , the major metabolite of PHEBURANE , may be associated with neurotoxicity in patients with UCDs .
In a study of adult cancer patients receiving intravenous phenylacetate , 250 - 300 mg / kg / day for 14 days , repeated at 4 - week intervals , signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity , which were reversible upon discontinuation , were seen at plasma concentrations ≥ 3 . 5 mmol / L , and included somnolence , fatigue , and light headedness [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
PHEBURANE is not approved for intravenous use or for treatment of patients with cancer .
If symptoms of vomiting , nausea , headache , somnolence or confusion are present in the absence of high ammonia levels or other intercurrent illnesses , consider reducing the dose of PHEBURANE [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Phenylacetate caused neurotoxicity when given subcutaneously in rat pups [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypokalemia Renal excretion of phenylacetylglutamine may induce urinary loss of potassium .
Monitor serum potassium during therapy and initiate appropriate treatment when necessary .
5 . 3 Conditions Associated with Edema PHEBURANE contains 124 mg ( 5 . 4 mmol ) of sodium per gram of sodium phenylbutyrate , corresponding to 2 . 5 g ( 108 mmol ) of sodium in the maximum daily dose of 20 g of sodium phenylbutyrate .
In order to decide if administration of PHEBURANE is appropriate in patients with diseases that involve edema such as heart failure , cirrhosis , or nephrosis , calculate the total amount of sodium patients will be exposed to based on their weight or body surface area ( BSA ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
If a patient develops new - onset edema or worsening edema while on treatment , discontinue administration of PHEBURANE and initiate appropriate therapy .
5 . 4 Diabetes Mellitus , Hereditary Fructose Intolerance , Glucose - Galactose Malabsorption or Sucrase - Isomaltase Insufficiency PHEBURANE contains 768 mg of sucrose per gram of sodium phenylbutyrate , corresponding to 15 . 4 g of sucrose in the maximum daily dose of 20 g of sodium phenylbutyrate .
This should be considered in patients with diabetes mellitus .
Avoid use of PHEBURANE in patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose intolerance , glucose - galactose malabsorption or sucrase - isomaltase insufficiency .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions associated with the use of sodium phenylbutyrate were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily and from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction ( irregular menstrual cycles ) , decreased appetite , body odor and bad taste or taste aversion .
Less Common Clinical Adverse Reactions Blood and lymphatic system disorders : aplastic anemia , ecchymoses Cardiac disorders : arrhythmia Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain , decreased appetite , gastritis , nausea and vomiting , constipation , rectal bleeding , peptic ulcer disease , pancreatitis Metabolism and nutrition disorders : increased weight , edema Nervous system disorders : syncope , headache Psychiatric disorders : depression Renal and urinary disorders : renal tubular acidosis Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash Laboratory Adverse Reactions Blood and lymphatic system disorders : anemia , leukopenia and leukocytosis , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytosis Hepatobiliary disorders : hyperbilirubinemia , increased blood alkaline phosphatase , increased transaminases Metabolism and nutrition disorders : acidosis , alkalosis , hyperchloraemia , hypophosphataemia , hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypernatremia , hypokalemia , hypoalbuminemia , decreased total protein Clinical Adverse Reactions with Use of Phenylacetate Nervous system disorders : Neurotoxicity was reported in cancer patients receiving intravenous phenylacetate , the major metabolite of PHEBURANE ( PHEBURANE is not approved for intravenous use or for treatment of patients with cancer ) .
Signs and symptoms were predominately somnolence , fatigue , and dizziness ( lightheadedness ) ; less frequently reported were headache , dysgeusia , hypoacusis , disorientation , memory impairment , and exacerbation of a pre - existing neuropathy .
Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are menstrual dysfunction , decreased appetite , body odor and bad taste or taste aversion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Medunik USA , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 884 - 5520 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Valproic Acid , Haloperidol , or Corticosteroids : May increase plasma ammonia level ; monitor ammonia levels closely .
( 7 . 1 ) • Probenecid : May inhibit renal excretion of metabolites of PHEBURANE including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine ; monitor for potential neurotoxicity .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Ammonia Corticosteroids Use of corticosteroids may cause the breakdown of body protein and increase plasma ammonia levels .
Valproic Acid and Haloperidol Hyperammonemia may be induced by haloperidol and by valproic acid .
Monitor plasma ammonia levels closely when corticosteroids , valproic acid , or haloperidol is used concomitantly with PHEBURANE .
7 . 2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PHEBURANE Probenecid Probenecid may inhibit renal excretion of the metabolites of PHEBURANE including phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine .
Monitor patients for potential neurotoxicity and measure plasma phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine levels when probenecid is used concomitantly with PHEBURANE [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with sodium phenylbutyrate use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium phenylbutyrate .
Based on published animal data , phenylacetate may be neurotoxic to the developing brain ( see Data ) .
There are serious risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated urea cycle disorders during pregnancy which can result in serious morbidity and mortality to the mother and fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Pregnancy is a time of increased metabolic demand which increases the risk for hyperammonemic episodes when metabolic demands are not met .
Hyperammonemic episodes in pregnancy are associated with impaired cognition in the mother and an increased risk of maternal and fetal death .
Data In rats , intrauterine exposure to phenylacetate produced lesions in the neonatal brain in layer 5 of the cortical pyramidal cells ; dendritic spines were longer and thinner than normal and reduced in number .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of sodium phenylbutyrate and its metabolite in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for PHEBURANE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from PHEBURANE or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PHEBURANE have been established as adjunctive therapy to the standard of care , which includes dietary management , in the chronic management of pediatric patients with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) , involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) or argininosuccinic acid synthetase ( AS ) .
PHEBURANE is not indicated for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia , which can be a life - threatening medical emergency that requires rapid acting interventions to reduce plasma ammonia levels .
The sodium content of PHEBURANE has the potential to cause new - onset edema or worsening edema from salt and water retention , particularly in patients with underlying predisposing conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Neurotoxicity has been observed in juvenile animals with phenylacetate exposure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data When given subcutaneously to rat pups , 190 – 474 mg / kg phenylacetate caused decreased proliferation and increased loss of neurons , and it reduced CNS myelin .
Cerebral synapse maturation was retarded , and the number of functioning nerve terminals in the cerebrum was reduced , which resulted in impaired brain growth .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of PHEBURANE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No studies with PHEBURANE were conducted in subjects with renal impairment .
Monitor plasma ammonia levels when starting patients with impaired renal function on PHEBURANE [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies with PHEBURANE were conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment .
Start at the lower end of the recommended dosing range and maintain patients with hepatic impairment on the lowest dose necessary to control plasma ammonia levels [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdoses of PHEBURANE exceeding ten - fold the maximum recommended dosage may produce emesis , CNS depression , metabolic acidosis with or without respiratory alkalosis , hypernatremia , hypokalemia , and hypophosphatemia .
Symptoms of overdose overlap with those of acute hyperammonemia .
If overdose occurs , discontinue PHEBURANE , monitor plasma phenylacetate and ammonia levels closely , and institute appropriate emergency management , which may include hemodialysis , continuous veno - venous hemofiltration ( CVVH ) or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ECMO ) .
11 DESCRIPTION PHEBURANE ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets is a nitrogen binding agent .
Sodium phenylbutyrate is a white or yellowish - white powder , freely soluble in water and in methanol , and practically insoluble in methylene chloride .
It is known chemically as sodium 4 - phenylbutanoate with a molecular weight of 186 . 19 and the molecular formula C10H11NaO2 .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each bottle of PHEBURANE contains 84 g of sodium phenylbutyrate ( equivalent to 74 g of phenylbutyrate ) in 174 g of oral pellets .
Each gram of pellets contains 483 mg of sodium phenylbutyrate ( equivalent to 423 mg of phenylbutyrate ) .
PHEBURANE contains the following inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol 1500 , povidone K25 , and sugar spheres .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sodium phenylbutyrate is a pro - drug and is metabolized to phenylacetate .
Phenylacetate is a metabolically - active compound that conjugates with glutamine via acetylation to form phenylacetylglutamine .
Phenylacetylglutamine is excreted by the kidneys , hence providing an alternate vehicle for waste nitrogen excretion .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In patients with urea cycle disorders , sodium phenylbutyrate decreased elevated plasma ammonia and glutamine levels .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of phenylbutyrate and its metabolite phenylacetate were characterized in healthy adult subjects following a single oral administration of PHEBURANE ( 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate ) under fasted and fed conditions .
Absorption Under fasted condition , the mean ( SD ) maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of phenylbutyrate ranged from 146 ( 30 ) to 169 ( 33 ) μg / mL , which was achieved at approximately 0 . 6 hour after PHEBURANE administration .
The mean ( SD ) area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of phenylbutyrate ranged from 272 ( 78 ) to 283 ( 68 ) h * μg / mL .
Effect of Food Compared to fasted condition , AUC of phenylbutyrate decreased by 40 - 45 % and Cmax of phenylbutyrate decreased by 55 % , when PHEBURANE was administered with a high - fat , high - calorie meal ( total 800 to 1000 calories with approximately 150 , 250 , and 500 - 600 calories from protein , carbohydrate , and fat , respectively ) .
When PHEBURANE was administered with a normal - fat , normal - calorie , low - protein meal ( total 600 to 700 calories with approximately 60 , 200 , and 400 calories from protein , fat , and carbohydrate , respectively ) , AUC of phenylbutyrate decreased by 56 - 63 % and Cmax decreased by 43 - 45 % compared to fasted condition .
Elimination The mean half - life of phenylbutyrate ranged from 0 . 5 to 0 . 8 hour .
Metabolism Following oral administration , sodium phenylbutyrate is metabolized by β - oxidation into phenylacetate , which is converted to its coenzyme A ester , phenylacetyl - coenzyme A and further conjugated with glutamine to form phenylacetylglutamine .
Phenylacetylglutamine is excreted by the kidneys .
The major sites for metabolism of sodium phenylbutyrate are the liver and kidneys .
Phenylacetate is also hydrolysed by esterases in liver and blood .
Excretion Approximately 80 – 100 % of sodium phenylbutyrate is excreted by the kidneys within 24 hours as phenylacetylglutamine .
For each gram of sodium phenylbutyrate administered , it is estimated that between 0 . 12 – 0 . 15 grams of phenylacetylglutamine nitrogen are produced .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment or Hepatic Impairment PHEBURANE has not been studied in patients with renal impairment or in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro or clinical studies with PHEBURANE for determination of potential drug - drug interaction have not been conducted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and fertility studies of sodium phenylbutyrate have not been conducted .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PHEBURANE ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets consists of white to off - white pellets and is available in a child - resistant high - density polyethylene ( HDPE ) bottle with a desiccant in the cap .
Each bottle contains 84 g of sodium phenylbutyrate ( equivalent to 74 g of phenylbutyrate ) in 174 g of oral pellets ( NDC 71770 - 200 - 10 ) .
Each gram of pellets contains 483 mg of sodium phenylbutyrate ( equivalent to 423 mg of phenylbutyrate ) .
A calibrated measuring spoon that dispenses up to 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate in increments of 0 . 25 g is provided in the packaging .
Store PHEBURANE at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Discard any remaining PHEBURANE 45 days after first opening of the bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Neurotoxicity Advise the patient or caregiver that neurotoxicity may occur during PHEBURANE treatment .
Inform the patient or caregiver of the signs and symptoms of this risk and to contact the healthcare provider immediately if signs and symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Instruct the patient or caregiver to only use the calibrated dosing spoon supplied with PHEBURANE to measure the oral pellets .
Inform the patient or caregiver that the dosing spoon is directly calibrated in grams of sodium phenylbutyrate .
Inform the patient or caregiver to consume the pellets immediately after preparation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Inform the patient or caregiver that if a dose is missed , take the missed dose as soon as possible .
Instruct the patient or caregiver that there should be at least 3 hours between two doses and doses should not be doubled to make up for the missed dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Storage and Handling Advise the patient or caregiver to discard any remaining PHEBURANE 45 days after first opening of the bottle .
Distributed by : Medunik USA , Inc . 919 Conestoga Road Bryn Mawr , PA 19010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PHEBURANE ® is a registered trademark of Lucane Pharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information PHEBURANE ( FE bue rayne ) ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets What is PHEBURANE ?
• PHEBURANE is a prescription medicine , used along with a specific diet , for the long - term management of adults and children with urea cycle disorders ( UCDs ) , involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase ( CPS ) , ornithine transcarbamylase ( OTC ) or argininosuccinate synthetase ( AS ) .
• Episodes of sudden , rapid increase of ammonia in the blood ( acute hyperammonemia ) may happen in people during treatment with PHEBURANE .
PHEBURANE is not used for the treatment of acute hyperammonemia , which can be life - threatening and requires emergency medical treatment .
Before taking PHEBURANE , tell your or your child ’ s healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have heart problems .
• have kidney or liver problems .
• have diabetes ( PHEBURANE contains sucrose ) , or have a history of fructose intolerance , glucose - galactose malabsorption , or sucrase - isomaltase insufficiency .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PHEBURANE will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PHEBURANE passes into your breastmilk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with PHEBURANE .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Certain medicines may increase the level of ammonia in your blood or cause serious side effects when taken during treatment with PHEBURANE .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child take : • corticosteroids • valproic acid • haloperidol • probenecid Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your or your child ’ s healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take PHEBURANE ?
Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with PHEBURANE for information about the right way to prepare and take a dose of PHEBURANE .
• Take PHEBURANE exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
Do not change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe PHEBURANE based on your or your child ’ s weight .
• Schedule your PHEBURANE dose at the same time you eat a meal or snack .
• Use the calibrated dosing spoon to measure PHEBURANE oral pellets .
• PHEBURANE oral pellets should be taken with a drink such as water , fruit juices or protein - free infant formulas , or soft food , such as apple sauce or carrot puree .
It is not recommended to use other foods to take your dose of PHEBURANE oral pellets .
• Do not chew PHEBURANE oral pellets directly or mix PHEBURANE oral pellets into liquids .
• If you miss a dose of PHEBURANE , take it as soon as possible .
Each dose of PHEBURANE should be taken at least 3 hours apart .
If you have missed a dose within 3 hours of the next dose , take only one dose the next time it is scheduled .
• Do not give or take PHEBURANE through a gastrotomy or nasogastric tube .
• If you take too much PHEBURANE , call your healthcare provider or Poison Help line at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of PHEBURANE ?
PHEBURANE can cause serious side effects , including : Nervous system problems ( neurotoxicity ) .
Call your healthcare provider right away if get any of the following symptoms during treatment with PHEBURANE : • sleepiness • tiredness • lightheadedness • vomiting • nausea • headache • confusion Low potassium levels in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood potassium levels during treatment with PHEBURANE and treat if needed .
Conditions related to swelling ( edema ) .
PHEBURANE contains salt ( sodium ) , which can cause swelling from salt and water retention .
Your healthcare provider will decide if PHEBURANE is right for you if you have certain medical conditions that can cause swelling , such as heart failure , liver problems or kidney problems .
The most common side effects of PHEBURANE include : • absent or irregular menstrual periods • decreased appetite • body odor • bad taste or avoiding foods that you ate prior to getting sick ( taste aversion ) Your healthcare provider may do certain blood tests to check you or your child for side effects during treatment with PHEBURANE .
These are not all of the possible side effects of PHEBURANE .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PHEBURANE ?
• Store PHEBURANE at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• PHEBURANE comes in a child - resistant bottle .
The bottle cap contains a desiccant to help keep PHEBURANE dry .
• Throw away ( discard ) any remaining PHEBURANE 45 days after first opening of the bottle .
Keep PHEBURANE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of PHEBURANE .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use PHEBURANE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PHEBURANE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about PHEBURANE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in PHEBURANE ?
Active ingredient : sodium phenylbutyrate Inactive Ingredients : ethylcellulose , hypromellose , polyethylene glycol 1500 , povidone K25 , and sugar spheres .
Distributed by : Medunik USA , Inc . , 919 Conestoga Road , Bryn Mawr , PA , 19010 For more information , go to www . medunikusa . com This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : June 2022 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE PHEBURANE ® ( FE bue rayne ) ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets Read this Instructions for Use before taking PHEBURANE oral pellets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Instructions for Use does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to take a dose of PHEBURANE .
This Instructions for Use contains information on how to measure and take PHEBURANE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A : Calibrated dosing spoon provided with PHEBURANE Important information you need to know before taking PHEBURANE • The total daily dose of PHEBURANE must be given in divided doses and taken with food ( meal or snack ) .
Your healthcare provider will tell you when to take PHEBURANE and the dose to take .
• Schedule PHEBURANE doses at the same time as eating a meal or snack .
• Only use the calibrated dosing spoon provided with PHEBURANE to measure the dose ( See Figure A ) .
Supplies needed for measuring and taking PHEBURANE • Bottle of PHEBURANE oral pellets .
• Calibrated dosing spoon provided with PHEBURANE .
• A drink such as water , fruit juices or protein - free infant formulas , or soft food , such as apple sauce or carrot puree .
It is not recommended to use other foods to take your dose of PHEBURANE oral pellets .
Measuring PHEBURANE Repeat Steps 1 through 3 throughout the day as prescribed by your healthcare provider to get the total daily dose .
Step 1 • Use the calibrated dosing spoon to measure the prescribed divided dose of PHEBURANE oral pellets ( See Figure A ) .
The calibrated dosing spoon measures PHEBURANE oral pellets as grams ( g ) of sodium phenylbutyrate .
The calibrated dosing spoon dispenses up to 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate , in increments of 0 . 25 g . • Pour the oral pellets directly into the calibrated dosing spoon until it reaches the black line for the prescribed dose of sodium phenylbutyrate in grams ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B : Pour the PHEBURANE oral pellets directly into the calibrated dosing spoon .
Taking PHEBURANE Step 2 • Tap the bottom of the calibrated dosing spoon 1 time on a hard surface to give a flat level of oral pellets and continue filling until you reach the prescribed dose .
Step 3 • Swallow PHEBURANE oral pellets with a drink such as water , fruit juices , or protein - free infant formulas .
or • Sprinkle PHEBURANE oral pellets onto a spoonful of apple sauce or carrot puree and swallow right away .
It is important to swallow right away to prevent coating from dissolving .
Do not chew PHEBURANE oral pellets directly or mix PHEBURANE oral pellets into liquids .
If the prescribed divided dose is more than 3 grams , repeat Steps 1 through 3 to get the prescribed divided dose of sodium phenylbutyrate .
Storing PHEBURANE • Store PHEBURANE at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• PHEBURANE comes in a child - resistant bottle .
The bottle cap contains a desiccant to help keep PHEBURANE dry .
• Throw away ( discard ) any remaining PHEBURANE 45 days after first opening of the bottle .
• Keep PHEBURANE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Disposing of PHEBURANE • Throw away ( dispose of ) the bottle of PHEBURANE 45 days after first opening by dropping off the medicine at a drug take back site or following the steps below .
• Mix medicine with an unappealing substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds • Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag • Throw away the container in your trash at home , and • Delete all personal information on the prescription label of the empty medicine bottle , then throw away or recycle the empty bottle .
• Throw away ( dispose of ) used calibrated dosing spoon in the household trash .
• Do not use the calibrated dosing spoon to measure any other medicine .
If cleaning is necessary , rinse the calibrated dosing spoon with water and dry it completely .
To replace the calibrated dosing spoon , contact Medunik USA at 1 - 844 - 884 - 5520 .
Distributed by : Medunik USA , Inc , 919 Conestoga Road , Bryn Mawr , PA 19010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PHEBURANE ® is a registered trademark of Lucane Pharma .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : June 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 71770 - 200 - 10 Pheburane ® ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets 84 g per bottle * Rx only Pharmacist : Dispense the enclosed instructions per use with each prescription Use only the enclosed measuring spoon designed for use with this product .
Medunik USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Container NDC 71770 - 210 - 10 Pheburane ® ( sodium phenylbutyrate ) oral pellets 84 g per bottle * For oral use only Rx only Use only the enclosed measuring spoon designed for use with this product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
