Drug Facts Active ingredient Camphor ( Synthetic ) 6 . 2 % Purpose Cough suppressant Use temporarily relieves cough associated with a cold Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
For steam inhalation only .
Do not take by mouth .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face • add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of eye exposure ( flush eyes with water ) ; or if swallowed , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults & children 2 years & over : • add 1 tablespoon of solution to each quart of water or 1 ½ teaspoons of solution to each pint of water • add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer • follow manufacturer ' s directions for using vaporizer • breathe in the medicated vapors • use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • children under 2 years : do not use Other information • close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat • contains 78 % alcohol Inactive ingredients alcohol , cedarleaf oil , eucalyptus oil , laureth - 7 , menthol , nutmeg oil , poloxamer 124 , silicone Questions ?
1 - 800 - VAPOR - 1 - 2 ( 1 - 800 - 827 - 6712 ) Dist .
by Kaz USA , Inc . , A Helen of Troy Company , Marlborough , MA 01752 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 mL Bottle Carton VICKS ® Vapo Steam ® Camphor COUGH SUPPRESSANT FOR USE IN HOT STEAM VAPORIZERS • Produces Medicated Steam that Helps to Relieve Coughs !
DO NOT TAKE BY MOUTH 8 FL OZ ( 236 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
