SILVER ION FEMININE ANTIBACTERIAL GEL Active Ingredient ( s ) SILVER ION 0 . 05 mg / g Purpose BACTERIOSTATIC Use Uses for female daily intimate internal & external cleaning and hygiene care .
Warnings Disposable product .
Please do not use if the package is broken .
This product is for external use only , not edible .
Avoid contact with eyes This product cannot be used for STD prevention in sexual activity .
People allergic to silver cannot use this product ; Avoid using this product with products containing vaseline , chlorine , iodine , and hydrogen peroxide .
Women who are in menstrual , gestational or perinatal periods should be used with extreme caution .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions 1 .
Take a supine position , and support the hip with a cushion .
Remove the socket at the top of the injector and use it as the plunger rod .
Slowly insert the gel injector containing antibacterial gel into the deep area of vagina .
Deliver the gel into the vagina by pushing the plunger .
2 .
If there is discomfort in the intimate area , squeeze a little of the gel and apply onto the area , then gently rub for a while .
3 .
While in use , it ’ s normal to see vaginal discharge , so it ’ s recommended to use panty liners meanwhile .
4 .
Better effect can be obtained if FUYANJIE WASH is used before applying this product .
Other information This product can sterilize staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Candida albicans .
Keep in sealed container , and place in a cool dry place .
Inactive ingredients SOPHORA FLAVESCENS STEMONA TUBEROSA FRUCTUS CNIDII CORTEX PHELLODENDRI CARBOMER PURIFIED WATER Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
