Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 15 % , Octinoxate 2 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 10 % , Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product ■ keep away from face to avoid breathing it ■ keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
■ do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ˚ F .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other information ■ protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun ■ avoid long - term storage above 40 ˚ C ( 104 ˚ F ) ■ may stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients SD alcohol 40 - B ( 53 . 2 % v / v ) , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , ethylhexyl methoxycrylene , isohexadecane , isododecane , glycerin , C13 - 15 alkane , PEG - 2 cocamine , diethylhexyl syringylidenemalonate , tocopherol ( vitamin E ) , fragrance Questions 1 - 866 - 288 - 3330 Principal Display Panel # 1 Pediatrician Recommended Brand Coppertone ® Sunscreen Spray kids Sport High Performance for Active Play 100 Free of PABA , parabens and dyes Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Broad Specturm SPF 100 Net Wt 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
