1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE STRATAGRAFT is an allogeneic cellularized scaffold product indicated for the treatment of adults with thermal burns containing intact dermal elements for which surgical intervention is clinically indicated ( deep partial - thickness burns ) .
STRATAGRAFT ( allogeneic cultured keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts in murine collagen - dsat ) is an allogeneic cellularized scaffold product indicated for the treatment of adults with thermal burns containing intact dermal elements for which surgical intervention is clinically indicated ( deep partial - thickness burns ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical application only .
STRATAGRAFT is applied to a surgically prepared wound bed .
The number of STRATAGRAFT constructs applied will vary depending on the size of the wound bed .
STRATAGRAFT constructs may be trimmed to accommodate the size and shape of the wound bed .
Each STRATAGRAFT construct is for application to a single patient only .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage STRATAGRAFT is for topical application to a prepared wound bed ( excision / debridement ) .
A STRATAGRAFT construct is an approximately 100 cm2 ( approximately 8 cm by 12 . 5 cm ) off - white rectangle .
A STRATAGRAFT construct may be trimmed to fit the shape and size of the wound area .
The surface area of STRATAGRAFT to be applied should be equal to the surface area of the wound to be treated .
Multiple constructs may be applied to cover large wound areas .
If multiple constructs are required to cover the wound area , abut the STRATAGRAFT constructs , and it is not necessary to overlap the edges .
Each construct is for application to a single patient only .
2 . 2 Preparation STRATAGRAFT is to be prepared in an appropriate surgical environment .
STRATAGRAFT is supplied as follows : The STRATAGRAFT carton contains a laminated foil pouch ( Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : STRATAGRAFT carton and foil pouch Within the pouch is the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish that contains STRATAGRAFT on a polystyrene insert tray ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : STRATAGRAFT Product Dish containing the STRATAGRAFT construct Inside the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish is the polystyrene insert tray that contains the STRATAGRAFT construct ( Figure 3 ) .
STRATAGRAFT is loosely adhered to a polycarbonate membrane contained within a polystyrene insert tray frame .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : STRATAGRAFT Product Dish and Insert Tray containing STRATAGRAFT Hold Solution is provided in a plastic bottle contained within a laminated , foil pouch [ see Description ( 11 ) ] ( Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Hold Solution within a laminated foil pouch The Hold Dish is contained in a clear pouch ( Figure 5 ) and consists of identical top and bottom portions ( Figure 6 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Hold Dish contained within a clear pouch [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 : Hold Dish handled in sterile field [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Supplies : The following supplies are not included but are needed for the preparation : • - Mesher : STRATAGRAFT is compatible with autograft meshing devices ( crushing or noncrushing ) and can be meshed at ratios up to 1 : 1 • - Warming oven / cabinet or water bath Preparation Instructions : Following wound bed preparation ( excision / debridement ) , determine the number of STRATAGRAFT constructs that need to be thawed .
The following instructions are for preparing one STRATAGRAFT construct .
Two operators ( one sterile operator and one non - sterile operator ) are required .
If two or more STRATAGRAFT constructs are required , prepare them in one or more batches .
STRATAGRAFT construct preparation should take approximately 20 minutes for a single construct or group of constructs .
• Remove the Hold Solution bottle from the laminated , foil pouch .
The Hold Solution is a clear liquid .
Do not use the Hold Solution if the contents of the bottle appear cloudy or turbid .
Use one bottle of Hold Solution for one construct being prepared for placement .
• Warm the Hold Solution in a warming oven / cabinet or a water bath .
Option 1 : Place Hold Solution bottle in a warming oven / cabinet operating at 35ºC to 39ºC ( 95ºF to 102ºF ) for AT LEAST 45 minutes prior to use .
Option 2 : Place Hold Solution bottle in a water bath at 35ºC to 39ºC ( 95ºF to 102ºF ) for AT LEAST 15 minutes prior to use .
Do not submerge the cap or threads of the bottle .
• The nonsterile operator peels open the seal of the Hold Dish pouch and aseptically presents the Hold Dish to the sterile operator for placement in the sterile field ( Figure 7 ) .
The sterile operator aseptically removes the Hold Dish presented by the nonsterile operator ( Figure 7 ) and places it in the sterile field ( Figure 8 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 : Sterile operator ( gray gloves ) removes the sterile Hold Dish presented by the nonsterile operator ( white gloves ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 : Sterile operator places the Hold Dish in the sterile field ( gray rectangle ) • 4 .
Remove STRATAGRAFT carton from the freezer or dry ice .
Note : Steps 4 - 11 must be completed within 10 minutes of removal of STRATAGRAFT from the freezer or dry ice .
• 5 .
Open the STRATAGRAFT carton and remove the foil pouch ( Figure 9 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 9 : Remove foil pouch • 6 .
Peel the foil pouch open and carefully remove the closed STRATAGRAFT Product Dish ( Figure 10 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 10 : Remove closed STRATAGRAFT Product Dish from foil pouch • 7 .
The unopened STRATAGRAFT Product Dish containing the construct may be placed on a flat surface outside of the sterile field ( Figure 11 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 11 : Placement of STRATAGRAFT Product Dish in a nonsterile area • 8 .
The nonsterile operator pours one entire bottle of warmed Hold Solution into one sterile Hold Dish using aseptic technique per institutional procedures , immediately after removing the warmed Hold Solution from the warming device ( Figure 12 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 12 : Nonsterile operator aseptically pours Hold Solution into the Hold Dish • 9 .
The nonsterile operator removes the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish lid and holds the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish without contacting the insert tray ( Figure 13 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 13 : Nonsterile operator ( white gloves ) opens the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish • 10 .
The sterile operator aseptically removes the STRATAGRAFT insert tray from the STRATAGRAFT Product Dish using either sterile forceps or sterile , gloved fingers ( Figure 14 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 14 : Sterile operator ( gray gloves ) removes the STRATAGRAFT insert tray • 11 .
The sterile operator uses sterile , gloved fingers to place the insert tray into the Hold Dish beginning with one edge and lowering it to the opposite edge to minimize trapping bubbles beneath the insert tray ( Figure 15 ) .
If bubbles become trapped beneath the insert tray , gently lift the insert tray and place it slowly back down into the Hold Solution .
• 12 .
Maintain the STRATAGRAFT construct in the Hold Solution for a minimum of 15 minutes to a maximum of 4 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 15 : Sterile operator places Insert Tray into the Hold Dish • 13 .
Remove STRATAGRAFT from the polycarbonate membrane of the insert tray with sterile , gloved fingers or a pair of atraumatic forceps and mesh the STRATAGRAFT up to a 1 : 1 ratio .
Do not allow STRATAGRAFT to dry .
Moisten the mesher / tissue board as needed to prevent adhesion and maintain STRATAGRAFT moisture using Hold Solution , sterile 0 . 9 % normal saline , or lactated Ringer ' s solution .
STRATAGRAFT is packaged with the dermal ( shiny ) side in contact with the polycarbonate membrane .
The construct may be meshed ( Figure 16 ) with either side up ; note which side is the dermis ( shiny ) and which side is the epidermis ( matte ) prior to meshing and placement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 16 : Meshing STRATAGRAFT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Administration STRATAGRAFT is applied in appropriate aseptic conditions by a trained healthcare provider .
Follow the steps below for topical application of STRATAGRAFT : • If utilizing fibrin glue to anchor STRATAGRAFT , apply prior to placing the meshed STRATAGRAFT on the prepared wound bed .
If utilizing anchoring methods other than fibrin glue , start with step 2 .
• Place the meshed STRATAGRAFT with the dermal ( shiny ) side down in contact with the patient ' s prepared wound bed .
Ensure the epidermal ( matte ) side is facing up .
Abut the constructs when placing multiple STRATAGRAFT constructs .
Overlapping the STRATAGRAFT construct edges is not required .
Note : If the area to be treated is smaller than one construct , trim excess STRATAGRAFT before or after anchoring to the wound bed .
Ensure that STRATAGRAFT has contact across the entire surface of the wound bed .
Do not stretch or expand STRATAGRAFT , as doing so may degrade the structural integrity of STRATAGRAFT .
• Anchor STRATAGRAFT with staples , tissue adhesive such as cyanoacrylate , or sutures to keep STRATAGRAFT from dislodging .
Place a porous , nonadherent contact dressing over STRATAGRAFT and leave the dressing in place for one week before changing .
• Place a second layer of dressing that does not contain silver [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Placement of an outer bolster or wrap that keeps STRATAGRAFT from moving as clinically appropriate is at the discretion of the physician .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS STRATAGRAFT is an off - white , rectangular sheet of approximately 100 cm2 ( approximately 8 cm by 12 . 5 cm ) consisting of a viable , bioengineered , allogeneic cellularized scaffold product derived from keratinocytes grown on gelled collagen containing dermal fibroblasts .
STRATAGRAFT is an off - white rectangular sheet of approximately 100 cm2 ( approximately 8 cm by 12 . 5 cm ) , consisting of a viable , bioengineered , allogeneic cellularized scaffold product derived from keratinocytes grown on gelled collagen containing dermal fibroblasts .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with known allergies to murine collagen or products containing ingredients of bovine or porcine origin [ See Description ( 11 ) ] .
Do not use in patients with known allergies to murine collagen or products containing ingredients of bovine or porcine origin .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Potential Sensitivity ( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions ( 5 . 2 ) • Transmission of Infectious Diseases ( 5 . 3 ) • Donation of Blood , Organs , Tissues , or Cells ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Potential Sensitivity STRATAGRAFT contains glycerin .
Avoid glycerin in patients with known sensitivity ( irritant reaction ) to glycerin .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe hypersensitivity reactions may occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Monitor for both early and late symptoms and signs of hypersensitivity reaction following STRATAGRAFT application , and treat according to standard medical practice .
5 . 3 Transmission of Infectious Diseases STRATAGRAFT contains cells from human donors and may transmit infectious diseases or infectious agents , e . g . , viruses , bacteria , or other pathogens , including the agent that causes transmissible spongiform encephalopathy ( TSE , also known as Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) or variant CJD ) .
STRATAGRAFT is a xenotransplantation product because of an historic exposure of the keratinocyte cells to well - characterized mouse cells .
The cell banks have been tested and found to be free of detectable adventitious agents and mouse cells are no longer used in the manufacture of STRATAGRAFT [ see Description ( 11 ) ] ; however these measures do not entirely eliminate the risk of transmitting infectious diseases and disease agents .
Transmission of infectious diseases or agents by STRATAGRAFT has not been reported .
5 . 4 Donation of Blood , Organs , Tissues , or Cells Because STRATAGRAFT is a xenotransplantation product , STRATAGRAFT recipients should not donate whole blood , blood components , plasma , leukocytes , tissues , breast milk , ova , sperm , or other body parts for use in humans .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) were itching ( pruritus ) , blisters , hypertrophic scar and impaired healing .
( Table 1 ) .
The most common ( ≥ 2 % ) adverse reactions were itching ( pruritus ) , blisters , hypertrophic scar , and impaired healing .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Customer Care at 1 - 877 - 647 - 2239 or http : / / www . mallinckrodt . com / stratatech or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described in this section reflect exposure to STRATAGRAFT in four randomized , within - subject - controlled studies conducted in the United States , including two clinical studies in patients with deep partial - thickness thermal burns ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) and two clinical studies in patients with full - thickness complex skin defects due to thermal burns or other causes .
A total of 119 adult patients ( 101 patients with deep partial - thickness thermal burn , and 18 patients with full - thickness complex skin defects ) received topical application of STRATAGRAFT .
The patient population ranged in age from 19 to 79 years ( mean age 43 years ) .
Each patient received topical application of STRATAGRAFT at one wound site and either autografting ( 104 patients ) or cadaver allografts ( 15 patients ) as intrapatient comparators at another wound site .
The most frequent adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 2 % ) observed in the 4 studies are summarized in Table 1 .
No patients discontinued study participation due to adverse reactions .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of ≥ 2 % Following Treatment with STRATAGRAFT ( N = 119 ) Adverse Reaction Patients n ( % ) [ 1 ] Pruritus ( Itching ) 13 ( 11 ) Blisters 5 ( 4 ) Hypertrophic Scar 3 ( 3 ) Impaired Healing 3 ( 3 ) [ 1 ] If a patient had more than one incidence of an adverse reaction , the patient was counted only once .
Overall , the safety profile of STRATAGRAFT with regard to wound - related events , including erythema , swelling , local warmth and wound site infections , was similar to that of autografting in these studies .
There were no reports of rejection of STRATAGRAFT in the clinical studies .
The safety of STRATAGRAFT beyond 12 months was not evaluated in the clinical studies .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Mafenide Acetate The use of mafenide acetate is not recommended following application of STRATAGRAFT .
This topical antimicrobial has been shown to reduce keratinocyte viability and disrupt the integrity of tissue - engineered human skin substitutes composed of NIKS ® keratinocytes or primary keratinocytes . 1 7 . 2 Silver - Containing Antimicrobials and Dressings The use of silver - containing antimicrobials or dressings is not recommended because in vitro data suggest silver may decrease the viability of keratinocytes and human dermal fibroblasts . 2 7 . 3 Chlorhexidine The use of antimicrobial chlorhexidine solution on the wound following application of STRATAGRAFT is not recommended .
This material has been shown to be toxic to keratinocytes and human dermal fibroblasts . 3 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data regarding STRATAGRAFT use in pregnant women .
No animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have been conducted with STRATAGRAFT to assess whether it can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In the United States general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of STRATAGRAFT in human milk , the effect on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for STRATAGRAFT and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed infant from STRATAGRAFT , especially considering the xenotransplant nature of STRATAGRAFT , or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of STRATAGRAFT in pediatric patients ( < 18 years ) have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Eight patients aged 65 years and older were enrolled in Study 1 .
Although no differences in safety or efficacy were observed between patients aged 65 years and older and younger patients , the number of patients aged 65 years and older was not sufficient to determine whether they responded differently from younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION STRATAGRAFT is a viable , bioengineered , allogeneic , cellularized scaffold product that contains a fully - stratified epithelial layer comprised of differentiated , multilayered , epidermal keratinocytes from a single human donor .
The keratinocytes are grown on a purified murine Type I collagen matrix embedded with fibroblasts from a second human donor .
STRATAGRAFT is produced from well - characterized human keratinocyte and fibroblast cell banks that contain no detectable pathogens .
The cells are metabolically active allogeneic NIKS keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts .
STRATAGRAFT is a xenotransplantation product because the keratinocyte component of STRATAGRAFT was originally derived in the presence of a mouse cell line .
However , mouse cells are no longer used to manufacture STRATAGRAFT .
No mouse cells or mouse - derived infectious agents are detectable in STRATAGRAFT .
STRATAGRAFT product manufacture includes reagents derived from animal materials , including murine collagen , calf serum , porcine trypsin and purified bovine serum albumin .
STRATAGRAFT construct is loosely adherent to a supportive polycarbonate membrane insert and treated in glycerin - containing media .
Each cryopreserved STRATAGRAFT construct is supplied with Hold Solution and Hold Dish , which are used for preparing STRATAGRAFT [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
The Hold Solution is a cell - culture medium that is not supplemented with growth factors .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action STRATAGRAFT is an allogeneic cellularized scaffold product containing metabolically active cells that produce and secrete a variety of growth factors and cytokines .
In vitro studies have shown that STRATAGRAFT secretes human growth factors and cytokines , and contains human extracellular matrix proteins .
Growth factors , cytokines , and extracellular matrix proteins are known to be involved in wound repair and regeneration .
STRATAGRAFT does not remain permanently engrafted , but is replaced by the patient ' s own cells over time , eliminating or reducing the need for autografting to attain definitive closure of the majority of treated wounds .
A total of 85 patients in Study 1 and Study 2 were evaluated at 3 months for persistence of allogeneic STRATAGRAFT DNA at the treatment site .
STRATAGRAFT - associated DNA was not detected in these patients .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamic effects of STRATAGRAFT are not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic effects of STRATAGRAFT are not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies were conducted to evaluate the effects of STRATAGRAFT on carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Evaluation of tumorigenic potential consisted of the following studies : Karyotype Stability The NIKS keratinocytes and human dermal fibroblasts contained in STRATAGRAFT are karyotypically stable .
In Vitro Studies The NIKS keratinocytes and human dermal fibroblasts cultured for 43 and 6 passages , respectively , did not exhibit anchorage - independent growth ( a standard assay that evaluates the potential for cellular transformation ) .
STRATAGRAFT contains NIKS keratinocytes and human dermal fibroblasts that are at passage 40 and 7 , respectively .
In Vivo Studies A single subcutaneous injection of NIKS keratinocytes into immunodeficient mice did not result in tumor formation by 23 weeks post - injection .
Topical application of STRATAGRAFT on full - thickness excisional wounds in immunodeficient mice did not result in tumor formation by 20 weeks post - dose .
Toxicity No evidence of local or systemic toxicity was observed in immunocompromised athymic nude mice exposed to STRATAGRAFT .
Administration of 14 cm2 ( approximately 25 % Total Body Surface Area ) of STRATAGRAFT was applied to full - thickness excisional wounds , followed by assessment for local or systemic toxicity from 90 to 140 days ( 13 to 20 weeks ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of STRATAGRAFT in adult patients with thermal burns containing intact dermal elements for which surgical excision and autografting were clinically indicated was evaluated in two randomized , open - label , intrapatient - controlled , multicenter clinical studies of 12 months duration ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) .
In both studies , two comparable wound sites of each patient were selected and randomized to receive either topical application of STRATAGRAFT or autograft .
Autografts served as the intrapatient control .
Study 1 enrolled 71 adult patients with acute thermal burns containing intact dermal elements ( deep partial - thickness burns ) involving 3 to 37 % total body surface area ( TBSA ) .
The time from burn to study treatment was 1 to 18 days .
The size of the STRATAGRAFT - treated wound was 12 to 960 cm2 .
The mean age was 44 years ( 19 to 79 years ) with 78 % male .
Seventy - eight percent of patients were White , 20 % were Black or African - American , and the remainder were Asian or Other .
Efficacy was established on the basis of : ( 1 ) the difference in the percent area of the STRATAGRAFT treatment site and the control autograft treatment site that required autografting by 3 months following treatment , and ( 2 ) the proportion of patients achieving durable wound closure of the STRATAGRAFT treatment site at 3 months without autograft placement .
Durable wound closure at 3 months was defined as wound closure at two consecutive study visits at least 2 weeks , but no more than 5 months apart , and including or encompassing the 3 - month time point .
The difference in the percent area of STRATAGRAFT and control autograft treatment sites that required autografting by 3 months was 98 % ± 17 % ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Three patients had part or all of their STRATAGRAFT treatment site autografted by 3 months , and two of the three patients also had part or all of their autograft control study site re - grafted .
Donor site harvest was eliminated for 96 % ( 68 / 71 ) of STRATAGRAFT - treated burn sites .
As a result , pain and scarring were significantly reduced at these potential donor sites that were spared and remained intact ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The cosmesis was similar between STRATAGRAFT - treated sites and autograft - treated sites .
The proportion of patients achieving durable closure of the STRATAGRAFT treatment site at 3 months without autograft placement was 83 % ( 95 % CI : 74 , 92 ) .
The proportion of patients achieving durable closure of the autograft control treatment site at 3 months without additional autograft placement was 86 % ( 95 % CI : 78 , 94 ) .
In subgroups of race , ethnicity , sex , age , burn size in percentage of TBSA , STRATAGRAFT treatment area , and Baux scores ( a scoring system to estimate mortality due to burn ) , efficacy results were in general consistent with the results in the overall Study 1 population .
Study 2 enrolled 30 adult patients with acute thermal burns containing intact dermal elements ( deep partial - thickness burn ) and involving 3 to 49 % TBSA .
The time from burn to study treatment ranged from 3 to 13 days .
The size of the STRATAGRAFT - treated wound was 52 to 440 cm2 .
The mean age was 41 years ( 21 – 63 years ) .
Ninety - three percent of patients were White and 7 % were Black or African - American .
Men accounted for 70 % of the population .
Efficacy was evaluated on the basis of : ( 1 ) the percent area of STRATAGRAFT treatment site autografted by 28 days after STRATAGRAFT treatment , and ( 2 ) the proportion of treatment sites that achieved complete wound closure by 3 months .
Complete wound closure was defined as ≥ 95 % re - epithelialization in the absence of drainage .
No STRATAGRAFT treatment site required autografts by 28 days .
Between 28 days and 3 months , one patient had both the STRATAGRAFT treatment site and the autograft site treated subsequently with autograft , and a second patient had 25 % of the STRATAGRAFT treatment site autografted .
At 3 months , 93 . 1 % of STRATAGRAFT treatment sites and 100 % of autograft treatment sites achieved complete wound closure .
All STRATAGRAFT treatment sites that achieved complete wound closure at 3 months remained closed when evaluated at 6 months and 12 months after treatment .
15 REFERENCES • Gibson AL , Schurr MJ , Schlosser SJ , Comer AR , Allen - Hoffmann BL .
Comparison of therapeutic antibiotic treatments on tissue - engineered human skin substitutes .
Tissue Eng Part A . 2008 May ; 14 ( 5 ) : 629 - 38 .
• Nešporová K , Pavlík V , Šafránková B , et al .
Effects of wound dressings containing silver on skin and immune cells .
Scientific Reports .
2020 Sep ; 10 ( 1 ) : 15216 .
• Boyce ST , Warden GD , Holder IA .
Cytotoxicity testing of topical antimicrobial agents on human keratinocytes and fibroblasts for cultured skin grafts .
J Burn Care Rehabil .
1995 Mar - Apr ; 16 ( 2 Pt 1 ) : 97 - 103 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied STRATAGRAFT is an approximately 100 cm2 rectangular sheet ( approximately 8 cm by 12 . 5 cm ) – ( NDC 73612 - 200 - 01 ) , loosely adherent to a polycarbonate membrane within a polystyrene frame and packaged in a sealed foil pouch contained within a carton .
STRATAGRAFT is shipped on dry ice .
The Hold Solution and Hold Dish are packaged separately and shipped at ambient temperature .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store STRATAGRAFT between - 70 ° C and - 90 ° C ( - 94 ° F to - 130 ° F ) .
Store the Hold Solution between 2 ° C and 8 ° C ( 36 ° F and 46 ° F ) .
Store Hold Dishes at ambient temperature .
Do not use any of the above components if they have been compromised .
Dispose of unused STRATAGRAFT as surgical biohazardous waste in accordance with local requirements .
Dispose of materials that have come into contact with STRATAGRAFT as surgical biohazardous waste in accordance with local requirements .
Contact Customer Care at 1 - 877 - 647 - 2239 for further instructions .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients of the following risks : • Potential Sensitivity to Glycerin Inform patients that STRATAGRAFT contains glycerin and could cause irritation if patients are sensitive to glycerin .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if their skin develops symptoms such as rash or itching [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions are rare but may occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Systemic symptoms associated with immediate hypersensitivity reactions may include dizziness or trouble breathing and are likely to occur within the first few hours after exposure .
Late hypersensitivity reactions may include itching , hives , or rash .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they develop symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Transmission of Infectious Diseases Inform patients that STRATAGRAFT may transmit infectious diseases .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they develop any symptoms suggestive of infection , such as redness or warmness , increased discharge / drainage or pain of skin where STRATAGRAFT is applied [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Xenotransplantation nature of STRATAGRAFT Inform patients that mouse cells were used in the early development of the NIKS keratinocyte master cell bank .
Therefore , STRATAGRAFT is a xenotransplantation product , even though mouse cells are no longer used in the manufacture of STRATAGRAFT .
Please see the attached patient instruction sheet for additional instruction .
After application of STRATAGRAFT , provide the following post - procedure instructions : • Expect itching , redness , swelling , bruising , and / or pain at the treatment site during the healing process .
Contact the healthcare provider if experiencing fever , increased drainage , pain and / or swelling or any other adverse effect at or around the treatment site .
• Do not disturb the surgical dressing or STRATAGRAFT .
Contact the healthcare provider if STRATAGRAFT is dislodged .
Leave the post - procedure surgical dressing in place unless instructed otherwise by the healthcare provider [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Avoid touching the surgical dressing or treated areas until instructed otherwise by the healthcare provider [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Keep the dressing ( s ) dry [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured and Distributed by : Stratatech Corporation 510 Charmany Drive , Suite 150 Madison , WI 53719 Ph . : 1 - 877 - 647 - 2239 U . S . License # 2144 Mallinckrodt , the " M " brand mark and the Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals logo are trademarks of a Mallinckrodt company .
Other brands are trademarks of a Mallinckrodt company or their respective owners .
© 2021 Mallinckrodt .
Part number SPC - RM - 0159 Rev . 1 allogeneic cultured keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts in murine collagen - dsat STRATAGRAFT ® Patient Information This guide is to help you understand STRATAGRAFT and its use for the treatment of burns .
This guide does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about STRATAGRAFT .
If you have questions about STRATAGRAFT , talk to your healthcare provider .
STRATAGRAFT is a biologic drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) for use in adult patients who have a specific type of burn .
STRATAGRAFT is placed onto your burn by your healthcare provider .
Over time , your skin cells should grow to replace the skin cells lost to the burn .
STRATAGRAFT is available by prescription only .
U . S . License Number : 2144 Manufactured by : Stratatech Corporation 510 Charmany Drive , Suite 150 Madison , WI 53719 Phone : 1 - 877 - 647 - 2239 Mallinckrodt , the " M " brand mark and the Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals logo are trademarks of a Mallinckrodt company .
Other brands are trademarks of a Mallinckrodt company or their respective owners .
© 2021 Mallinckrodt .
Glossary / Definitions of Terms Autograft : a piece of your own skin tissue used to replace skin lost to burn .
Bilayer construct : product containing two different layers of skin cells in a format similar to human skin .
Biologic drug : a drug product that is produced from living organisms or contains components of living organisms .
Bovine : relating to cattle .
Dermal fibroblasts : a type of cell from the inner layer of skin that helps the skin to recover from injury .
Hypersensitivity : condition in which there is an exaggerated response by the body to something foreign .
Infectious agent : organisms that might cause an infection or infectious disease ; includes bacteria , fungi , viruses , and parasites .
Keratinocytes : cells that make up the outer surface of the skin that helps the skin to recover from injury .
Murine : relating to rodents .
Porcine : relating to pigs .
Skin grafts : a piece of tissue used for replacing skin lost to burn .
Xenotransplantation product : human cells that have been exposed to animal cells are considered to be a xenotransplantation product .
One of the human cell types in STRATAGRAFT was grown with mouse cells early in the development of STRATAGRAFT .
Even though mouse cells are no longer used in the manufacture of STRATAGRAFT , FDA considers STRATAGRAFT to be a xenotransplantation product .
What is STRATAGRAFT ?
STRATAGRAFT construct is produced from two kinds of human skin cells ( keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts ) .
To produce STRATAGRAFT , the cells are allowed to grow together to make a bilayered construct that is similar to skin .
Mouse cells are no longer used in the STRATAGRAFT manufacturing process .
In the past , one of the cell types used to make STRATAGRAFT was grown with mouse cells .
There have been no identified health concerns associated with these mouse cells .
No infectious agents have been detected in STRATAGRAFT .
Who should use STRATAGRAFT ?
Adults may need STRATAGRAFT if they have a deep burn ( s ) .
Your doctor will evaluate if STRATAGRAFT may be right to treat your burn ( s ) .
Why may STRATAGRAFT help your condition ?
For many deep burns , one treatment type is the removal of the damaged , burned skin , and replacement with a skin graft .
These skin grafts may be taken from your own healthy skin on your body and moved to the burned area to help it heal .
When skin grafts are taken from your body , it is called an autograft .
This procedure leaves a new wound where the healthy skin was taken .
If your doctor recommends that your burn wound be treated with STRATAGRAFT , then your healthcare provider will place STRATAGRAFT on your burn instead of using a piece of your own healthy skin .
In most cases , treatment with STRATAGRAFT avoids or greatly decreases the amount of healthy skin that is taken for grafting .
STRATAGRAFT will likely allow your own skin cells to grow and heal the burned area over time .
When should STRATAGRAFT not be used ?
You should not be treated with STRATAGRAFT if you have an allergy to STRATAGRAFT or any of the components of STRATAGRAFT , including murine collagen or bovine or porcine products .
What are the risks associated with STRATAGRAFT ?
• STRATAGRAFT contains glycerin .
In patients who have a glycerin sensitivity , there is a risk of an allergic reaction .
• Because STRATAGRAFT contains human cells , there is the possibility of transmission of an infectious agent .
• Because STRATAGRAFT is a xenotransplantation product , there is the possibility of infection from the previous exposure to mouse cells .
The safety of STRATAGRAFT was similar to that of autografting in clinical studies .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Customer Care at 1 - 877 - 647 - 2239 or http : / / www . mallinckrodt . com / stratatech or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
What is xenotransplantation and what are the issues related to xenotransplantation ?
FDA considers STRATAGRAFT to be a xenotransplantation product because one of the human cell types in STRATAGRAFT was grown with mouse cells in the past .
The mouse cells and human cells have been thoroughly tested and no infectious agents were found .
No infections from mouse cells were reported in clinical trials .
However , there is a very low possibility for infection from the mouse cells .
STRATAGRAFT contains no mouse cells ; however , you should be aware that : • At any time in the future , if you develop unexplained symptoms , notify your treating physician .
• STRATAGRAFT recipients should not donate whole blood , blood components , plasma , leukocytes , tissues , breast milk , ova , sperm , or body parts for transplantation .
This restriction does not extend to your intimate contacts or the medical team taking care of you .
• A small amount of blood ( around 5 mL , or about 1 teaspoon ) will be collected prior to treatment with STRATAGRAFT .
This sample could be used as a baseline sample to assess health issues that may be related to the treatment .
These samples will not be used for any purpose other than responding to a request by the FDA .
Blood samples and patient information will be stored and used as required and allowed by law .
• Although not required , consider allowing an autopsy to be performed in the event of your death , regardless of the cause of death .
Why do we track your personal information ?
FDA requires Stratatech to track the patients who receive STRATAGRAFT , so Stratatech can notify the patients and their health care professionals promptly if a safety concern associated with the product is identified .
Thus , we will collect information about you and the STRATAGRAFT you received .
This information will be provided to the FDA on a periodic basis .
Your information will be kept confidential consistent with applicable laws .
What are the potential complications of burns and skin grafting ?
Severe burns may cause many complications to both the skin and other parts of the body .
These complications can be very serious and life - threatening .
In the clinical studies , complications seen after treatment with STRATAGRAFT were typical of severe burns .
Patients experienced itching , blisters , scarring , and impaired healing at the treatment site .
To help avoid complications after surgery , follow these instructions : • Leave the dressing ( s ) in place unless instructed otherwise by your healthcare provider .
Contact your healthcare provider if STRATAGRAFT gets shifted out of place .
• Avoid touching the dressing or treated areas until instructed otherwise by your healthcare provider .
• Keep the dressing ( s ) dry .
• Expect itching , redness , swelling , bruising , and / or pain after the surgery .
Contact your healthcare provider if you develop fever , increased drainage , pain and / or swelling , or any other adverse effect at or around the treatment site .
SPC - LBL - 0982 Rev . 1 06 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Pouch Carton NDC 73612 - 200 - 01 Rx Only allogeneic cultured keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts in murine collagen - dsat STRATAGRAFT ® For Single - Use Only For Topical Application Only Contains 1 Construct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Pouch Carton - NDC 73612 - 201 - 01 NDC 73612 - 201 - 01 Rx Only allogeneic cultured keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts in murine collagen - dsat STRATAGRAFT ® Sample - Not for Resale For Single - Use Only For Topical Application Only Contains 1 Construct [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
