1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CUROSURF ® ( poractant alfa ) Intratracheal Suspension is indicated for the rescue treatment of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants .
CUROSURF reduces mortality and pneumothoraces associated with RDS .
CUROSURF is a surfactant indicated for the rescue treatment , including the reduction of mortality and pneumothoraces , of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Before administering CUROSURF , assure proper placement and patency of endotracheal tube ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer intratracheally either in ( 2 . 1 ) : • Two divided aliquots through a 5 French end - hole catheter ; or • A single bolus through secondary lumen of a dual lumen endotracheal tube without interrupting mechanical ventilation • Initial recommended dose is 2 . 5 mL / kg birth weight ( 2 . 2 ) • Up to two repeat doses of 1 . 25 mL / kg birth weight may be administered at approximately 12 - hour intervals ( 2 . 2 ) • Maximum total dose ( initial plus repeat doses ) is 5 mL / kg ( 2 . 2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration of the CUROSURF suspension ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions For intratracheal administration only .
CUROSURF should be administered by , or under the supervision of clinicians experienced in intubation , ventilator management , and general care of premature infants .
Before administering CUROSURF , assure proper placement and patency of the endotracheal tube .
At the discretion of the clinician , the endotracheal tube may be suctioned before administering CUROSURF .
Allow the infant to stabilize before proceeding with dosing .
Administer CUROSURF either : • Intratracheally by instillation in two divided aliquots through a 5 French end - hole catheter or • Intratracheally in a single bolus through the secondary lumen of a dual lumen endotracheal tube without interrupting mechanical ventilation .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The initial recommended dose is 2 . 5 mL / kg birth weight , administered as one or two aliquots depending upon the instillation procedure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Up to two repeat doses of 1 . 25 mL / kg birth weight each may be administered at approximately 12 - hour intervals in infants in whom RDS is considered responsible for their persisting or deteriorating respiratory status .
The maximum recommended total dosage ( sum of the initial and up to two repeat doses ) is 5 mL / kg .
2 . 3 Preparation of the CUROSURF Suspension • Remove the vial of CUROSURF suspension from a refrigerator at + 2 ° C to + 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) and slowly warm the vial to room temperature before use .
• Visually inspect the CUROSURF suspension for discoloration prior to administration .
The color of the CUROSURF suspension should be white to creamy white .
Discard the CUROSURF vial if the suspension is discolored .
• Gently turn the vial upside - down , in order to obtain a uniform suspension .
DO NOT SHAKE .
• Locate the notch ( FLIP UP ) on the colored plastic cap and lift the notch and pull upwards .
• Pull the plastic cap with the aluminum portion downwards .
• Remove the whole ring by pulling off the aluminum wrapper .
• Remove the rubber cap to extract content .
• Unopened , unused vials of CUROSURF suspension that have warmed to room temperature can be returned to refrigerated storage within 24 hours for future use .
Do not warm to room temperature and return to refrigerated storage more than once .
Protect from light .
2 . 4 Administration For endotracheal tube instillation using a 5 French end - hole catheter • Slowly withdraw the entire contents of the vial of CUROSURF suspension into a 3 or 5 mL plastic syringe through a large - gauge needle ( e . g . , at least 20 gauge ) .
Enter each single - use vial only once .
• Attach the 5 French end - hole catheter of appropriate length to position the catheter tip proximal to the distal portion of the endotracheal tube , to the syringe .
Fill the catheter with CUROSURF suspension .
Discard excess CUROSURF through the catheter so that only the dose to be given remains in the syringe .
• For the first dose : 1 . 25 mL / kg ( birth weight ) per aliquot • For each repeated dose : 0 . 625 mL / kg ( birth weight ) per aliquot • First aliquot of CUROSURF suspension : • Position the infant in a neutral position ( head and body in alignment without inclination ) , with either the right or left side dependent .
• Immediately before CUROSURF administration , ventilate the infant with supplemental oxygen sufficient to maintain SaO2 > 92 % .
• Insert the catheter into the endotracheal tube and instill the first aliquot of CUROSURF suspension .
• After the first aliquot is instilled , remove the catheter from the endotracheal tube and manually ventilate with supplemental oxygen until clinically stable .
• Second aliquot of CUROSURF suspension : • When the infant is stable , reposition the infant such that the other side is dependent .
• Administer the remaining aliquot using the same procedures as the first aliquot .
• After completion of the dosing procedure , do not suction airways for 1 hour after surfactant instillation unless signs of significant airway obstruction occur [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
For endotracheal tube instillation using the secondary lumen of a dual lumen endotracheal tube • Slowly withdraw the entire contents of the vial of CUROSURF suspension into a 3 or 5 mL plastic syringe through a large - gauge needle ( e . g . , at least 20 gauge ) .
Do not attach 5 French end - hole catheter .
Remove the needle and discard excess CUROSURF so that only the dose to be given remains in the syringe .
• Keep the infant in a neutral position ( head and body in alignment without inclination ) .
• Administer CUROSURF suspension through the proximal end of the secondary lumen of the endotracheal tube as a single dose , given over 1 minute , and without interrupting mechanical ventilation .
• After completion of this dosing procedure , ventilator management may require transient increases in FiO2 , ventilator rate , or PIP .
Do not suction airways for 1 hour after surfactant instillation unless signs of significant airway obstruction occur .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Intratracheal suspension : CUROSURF ( poractant alfa ) is a white to creamy white suspension available in : • 120 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) single - dose vials • 240 mg / 3 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) single - dose vials Intratracheal Suspension : • 120 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) single - dose vials ( 3 ) • 240 mg / 3 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Acute Changes in Lung Compliance : Frequently assess need to modify oxygen and ventilatory support to respiratory changes ( 5 . 1 ) • Administration - Related Adverse Reactions : Transient adverse effects include bradycardia , hypotension , endotracheal tube blockage , and oxygen desaturation .
These events require stopping CUROSURF administration and taking appropriate measures to alleviate the condition ( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Acute Changes in Oxygenation and Lung Compliance The administration of exogenous surfactants , including CUROSURF , can rapidly affect oxygenation and lung compliance .
Therefore , infants receiving CUROSURF should receive frequent clinical and laboratory assessments so that oxygen and ventilatory support can be modified to respond to respiratory changes .
CUROSURF should only be administered by those trained and experienced in the care , resuscitation , and stabilization of pre - term infants .
5 . 2 Administration - Related Adverse Reactions Transient adverse reactions associated with administration of CUROSURF include bradycardia , hypotension , endotracheal tube blockage , and oxygen desaturation .
These events require stopping CUROSURF administration and taking appropriate measures to alleviate the condition .
After the patient is stable , dosing may proceed with appropriate monitoring .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Common adverse reactions associated with the administration of CUROSURF include bradycardia , hypotension , endotracheal tube blockage , and oxygen desaturation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Chiesi USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 661 - 9260 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions in Studies in Premature Infants with Respiratory Distress Syndrome The safety data described below reflect exposure to CUROSURF at a single dose of 2 . 5 mL / kg ( 200 mg / kg ) , in 78 infants of 700 - 2000 grams birth weight with RDS requiring mechanical ventilation and a FiO2 ≥ 0 . 60 ( Study 1 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
A total of 144 infants were studied after RDS developed and before 15 hours of age ; 78 infants received CUROSURF 2 . 5 mL / kg single dose ( 200 mg / kg ) , and 66 infants received control treatment ( disconnection from the ventilator and manual ventilation for 2 minutes ) .
Transient adverse reactions seen with the administration of CUROSURF included bradycardia , hypotension , endotracheal tube blockage , and oxygen desaturation .
The rates of the most common serious complications associated with prematurity and RDS observed in Study 1 are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Most Common Serious Complications Associated with Prematurity and RDS in Study 1 CUROSURF 2 . 5 mL / kg n = 78 CONTROL * n = 66 Acquired Pneumonia 17 % 21 % Acquired Septicemia 14 % 18 % Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia 18 % 22 % Intracranial Hemorrhage 51 % 64 % Patent Ductus Arteriosus 60 % 48 % Pneumothorax 21 % 36 % Pulmonary Interstitial Emphysema 21 % 38 % * Control patients were disconnected from the ventilator and manually ventilated for 2 minutes .
No surfactant was instilled .
Seventy - six infants ( 45 treated with CUROSURF ) from study 1 were evaluated at 1 year of age and 73 infants ( 44 treated with CUROSURF ) were evaluated at 2 years of age to assess for potential long - term adverse reactions .
Data from follow - up evaluations for weight and length , persistent respiratory symptoms , incidence of cerebral palsy , visual impairment , or auditory impairment was similar between treatment groups .
In 16 patients ( 10 treated with CUROSURF and 6 controls ) evaluated at 5 . 5 years of age , the developmental quotient , derived using the Griffiths Mental Developmental Scales , was similar between groups .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity Immunological studies have not demonstrated differences in levels of surfactant - anti - surfactant immune complexes and anti - CUROSURF antibodies between patients treated with CUROSURF and patients who received control treatment .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Pulmonary hemorrhage , a known complication of premature birth and very low birth - weight , has been reported both in clinical trials with CUROSURF and in postmarketing adverse event reports in infants who had received CUROSURF .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of CUROSURF for the rescue treatment , including the reduction of mortality and pneumothoraces , of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) have been established in premature infants and the information on this use is discussed throughout the labeling .
The safety and effectiveness of CUROSURF in the treatment of full term infants or older pediatric patients with respiratory failure has not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdosage following the administration of CUROSURF .
In the event of accidental overdosage , and if there are clear clinical effects on the infant ' s respiration , ventilation , or oxygenation , aspirate as much of the suspension as possible and provide the infant with supportive treatment , with particular attention to fluid and electrolyte balance .
11 DESCRIPTION Poractant alfa is an extract of natural porcine lung ( pulmonary ) surfactant consisting of 99 % polar lipids ( mainly phospholipids ) and 1 % hydrophobic low molecular weight surfactant associated proteins ( SP ) .
The molecular weight of SP - B is 8 . 7 KDa and the molecular weight of SP - C is 3 . 7 KDa .
CUROSURF ( poractant alfa ) intratracheal suspension is a sterile , white to creamy white suspension provided in a single - dose vial for intratracheal use .
Each milliliter of suspension contains 80 mg of poractant alfa ( surfactant extract ) that includes 76 mg of phospholipids and 1 mg of SP of which 0 . 45 mg is SP - B , a 79 - amino acid protein and 0 . 59 mg is SP - C , a 35 - amino acid peptide .
The amount of phospholipids is calculated from the content of phosphorus and contains 55 mg of phosphatidylcholine of which 30 mg is dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine .
It is suspended in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride solution .
The pH is adjusted with sodium bicarbonate to a pH of 6 . 2 ( 5 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) .
Curosurf contains no preservatives .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Endogenous pulmonary surfactant reduces surface tension at the air - liquid interface of the alveoli during ventilation and stabilizes the alveoli against collapse at resting transpulmonary pressures .
A deficiency of pulmonary surfactant in preterm infants results in Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) characterized by poor lung expansion , inadequate gas exchange , and a gradual collapse of the lungs ( atelectasis ) .
CUROSURF compensates for the deficiency of surfactant and restores surface activity to the lungs of these infants .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In vitro - CUROSURF lowers minimum surface tension to ≤ 4 mN / m as measured by the Wilhelmy Balance System .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics CUROSURF is administered directly to the lung , where biophysical effects occur at the alveolar surface .
No human pharmacokinetic studies have been performed to characterize the absorption , biotransformation , or elimination of CUROSURF .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess potential carcinogenic effects of CUROSURF have not been conducted .
Poractant alfa was negative for genotoxicity in the following assays : bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster V79 cells , chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells , unscheduled DNA synthesis in HELA S3 cells , and in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
No studies to assess reproductive effects of CUROSURF have been performed .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Rescue Treatment of Respiratory Distress Syndrome The clinical efficacy of CUROSURF in the treatment of established Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( RDS ) in premature infants was demonstrated in one single - dose study ( Study 1 ) and one multiple - dose study ( Study 2 ) involving approximately 500 infants .
Each study was randomized , multicenter , and controlled .
In study 1 , premature infants 700 to 2000 grams birth weight with RDS requiring mechanical ventilation and a FiO2 ≥ 0 . 60 were enrolled .
CUROSURF 2 . 5 mL / kg single dose ( 200 mg / kg ) or control ( disconnection from the ventilator and manual ventilation for 2 minutes ) was administered after RDS developed and before 15 hours of age .
The results from Study 1 are shown below in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Study 1 Results in Premature Infants with Respiratory Distress Syndrome Efficacy Parameter Single Dose CUROSURF n = 78 Control n = 67 p - Value Mortality at 28 Days ( All Causes ) 31 % 48 % ≤ 0 . 05 Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia * 18 % 22 % N . S . Pneumothorax 21 % 36 % ≤ 0 . 05 Pulmonary Interstitial Emphysema 21 % 38 % ≤ 0 . 05 * Bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( BPD ) diagnosed by positive x - ray and supplemental oxygen dependence at 28 days of life .
N . S . : not statistically significant In Study 2 , premature infants 700 to 2000 g birth weight with RDS requiring mechanical ventilation and a FiO2 ≥ 0 . 60 were enrolled .
In this two - arm trial , CUROSURF was administered after RDS developed and before 15 hours of age , as a single - dose or as multiple doses .
In the single - dose arm , infants received CUROSURF 2 . 5 mL / kg ( 200 mg / kg ) .
In the multiple - dose arm , the initial dose of CUROSURF was 2 . 5 mL / kg followed by up to two 1 . 25 mL / kg ( 100 mg / kg ) doses of CUROSURF .
The results from Study 2 are shown below in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Study 2 Results in Premature Infants with Respiratory Distress Syndrome Efficacy Parameter Single Dose CUROSURF n = 184 Rate ( % ) Multiple Dose CUROSURF n = 173 Rate ( % ) p - Value Mortality at 28 Days ( All Causes ) 21 13 0 . 048 Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia * 18 18 N . S . Pneumothorax 17 9 0 . 03 Pulmonary Interstitial Emphysema 27 22 N . S . * Bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( BPD ) diagnosed by positive x - ray and supplemental oxygen dependence at 28 days of life .
N . S . : not statistically significant There is no controlled experience on the effects of administering initial doses of CUROSURF other than 2 . 5 mL / kg ( 200 mg / kg ) , subsequent doses other than 1 . 25 mL / kg ( 100 mg / kg ) , administration of more than three total doses , dosing more frequently than every 12 hours , or initiating therapy with CUROSURF more than 15 hours after diagnosing RDS .
Adequate data are not available on the use of CUROSURF in conjunction with experimental therapies of RDS , e . g . , high - frequency ventilation or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CUROSURF ( poractant alfa ) intratracheal suspension is a white to creamy white suspension available in sterile , rubber - stoppered clear glass vials containing ( one vial per carton ) : • 120 mg / 1 . 5 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) poractant alfa ( surfactant extract ) of suspension : NDC Number : 10122 - 510 - 01 • 240 mg / 3 mL ( 80 mg / mL ) poractant alfa ( surfactant extract ) of suspension .
NDC Number : 10122 - 510 - 03 Store CUROSURF intratracheal suspension in a refrigerator at + 2 ° C to + 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Do not shake .
Vials are for single - dose only .
After opening the vial discard the unused portion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Chiesi USA , Inc .
Cary , NC 27518 U . S . License No . 2150 Manufactured at and licensed from : Chiesi Farmaceutici , S . p . A . Parma , Italy 43100 CTC - 007 - 0320 - 03 - SPL - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
