Active Ingredients Avobenzone 1 % , Octocrylene 5 % , Oxybenzone 1 . 5 % , Phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sun protection • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown to help only prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally and evenly to face and neck 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Reapply as needed or after towel drying , swimming , or sweating • May be worn alone or under makeup • Sun Protection measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other Information • Sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
• Protect this product from excessive heat an direct sun • Store below 30 degrees C / 86 degrees F Inactive Ingredients Hyaluronic acid , Parabens , Phenoxyethanol , Punica granatum ( Pomegranate ) Fruit Extract , Tocopherol ( Vitamin E ) Questions or comments ?
In Australia at www . mecca . com . au In the USA at J Crew customer relations 24 hours , 7 days a week at + 1 434 385 5575 SUN SERIES TO SAVE FACE SPF30 + FACIAL SUNSCREEN MECCA COSMETICA WEIGHTLESS HYDRATING FORMULA UVA and UVB PROTECTION PERFECT MAKEUP BASE NET WT 3 . 53 OZ .
( 100 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
