Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose Antimicrobial Use For hand cleaning to decrease bacteria on skin .
Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients When using this product do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash develops and continues for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 2 years and over ▪ apply to hands ▪ allow to dry without wiping children under 2 years ▪ ask a doctor before use To Dispense : Look for tear - notch located at the top of the refill pouch .
Open pouch by tearing straight across at notch .
Starting from the center of the roll , pull one wipe through the pouch center opening and then thread wipe through the dispenser nozzle .
Adjust nozzle tension on dispenser , if applicable .
For use with upward - pull dispensers ( floor stand or wall units ) only ; product will drip in a downward - pull dispenser .
For Use : Pull wipe up from the dispenser feed at an angle and tear from roll with a downward motion .
Wipe surface thoroughly and allow to dry naturally .
Dispose of wipe in trash .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Aqua ( Water ) , Benzoic Acid , Cetylpyridinium Chloride , Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Sodium Citrate Questions or Comments ?
Call ( 855 ) 55 - CLOTH Dual Action Cleaner & Antibacterial Alcohol - Free • Gentle on surfaces • Kind on Hands Often Used in Gyms , Clubs , Spas and More Crocodile Cloth ® | www . crocodilecloth . com Stay open safely and keep gym and club members healthy with Nuvik Antibacterial Hand Wipes .
These hand and surfaces wipes will keep gym equipment clean and deodorized and reduce harmful microbes on gym memebers ' hands .
The wipes are gentle on hands and tough on the sweat and grime that build up on gym equipment and surfaces .
Your members can work out with confidence , knowing that their hands are sanitary and the equipment they are using is clean and deodorized .
Nuvik Antibacterial Hand Wipes are a generous 8 " x 10 " and come in a convenient 800 - count roll to minimize refills .
Contains a broad - spectrum antimicrobial to kill common harmful microbes on hands .
Aloe Vera moisturizes hands as you clean .
This wipe will keep equipment and surfaces gleaming .
Ideal for ▪ Gyms / Training Centers ▪ Clubs ▪ Tanning Salons ▪ Day Spas ▪ Massage Therapy Clinics ▪ Pilates and Yoga Centers ▪ Dance Studios ▪ Spin / Cycling Studios ▪ Medical Facilites Recyclable packaging Safe on skin and most surfaces Store between 40 - 75 ° F Do not flush used wipes Manufactured for : Nuvik USA Inc Columbus , Ohio , USA www . nuvikglobal . com Made in China Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
