DESCRIPTION Loperamide hydrochloride is a white to slightly yellow powder and is freely soluble in methanol , isopropyl alcohol , chloroform and slightly soluble in water .
Loperamide hydrochloride , 4 - ( p - chlorophenyl ) - 4 - hydroxy - N , N - dimethyl - α , α - diphenyl - 1 - piperidinebutyramide monohydrochloride , is a synthetic antidiarrheal for oral use .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C29H33ClN2O2 • HCl M . W . 513 . 51 Loperamide hydrochloride is available in 2 mg capsules .
Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 2 mg loperamide hydrochloride .
Loperamide hydrochloride capsules USP also contain the inactive ingredients : dimethylpolysiloxane , gelatin , iron oxide black , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , pregelatinized corn starch , magnesium stearate , shellac , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In vitro and animal studies show that loperamide hydrochloride acts by slowing intestinal motility and by affecting water and electrolyte movement through the bowel .
Loperamide binds to the opiate receptor in the gut wall .
Consequently , it inhibits the release of acetylcholine and prostaglandins , thereby reducing peristalsis , and increasing intestinal transit time .
Loperamide increases the tone of the anal sphincter , thereby reducing incontinence and urgency .
In man , loperamide hydrochloride prolongs the transit time of the intestinal contents .
It reduces the daily fecal volume , increases the viscosity and bulk density , and diminishes the loss of fluid and electrolytes .
Tolerance to the antidiarrheal effect has not been observed .
Clinical studies have indicated that the apparent elimination half - life of loperamide hydrochloride in man is 10 . 8 hours with a range of 9 . 1 to 14 . 4 hours .
Plasma levels of unchanged drug remain below 2 nanograms per mL after the intake of a 2 mg loperamide hydrochloride capsule .
Plasma levels are highest approximately five hours after administration of the capsule and 2 . 5 hours after the liquid .
The peak plasma levels of loperamide were similar for both formulations .
Elimination of loperamide mainly occurs by oxidative N - demethylation .
Cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) isozymes , CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 , are thought to play an important role in loperamide N - demethylation process since quercetin ( CYP2C8 inhibitor ) and ketoconazole ( CYP3A4 inhibitor ) significantly inhibited the N - demethylation process in vitro by 40 % and 90 % , respectively .
In addition , CYP2B6 and CYP2D6 appear to play a minor role in loperamide N - demethylation .
Excretion of the unchanged loperamide and its metabolites mainly occurs through the feces .
In those patients in whom biochemical and hematological parameters were monitored during clinical trials , no trends toward abnormality during loperamide hydrochloride therapy were noted .
Similarly , urinalyses , EKG and clinical ophthalmological examinations did not show trends toward abnormality .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the control and symptomatic relief of acute nonspecific diarrhea and of chronic diarrhea associated with inflammatory bowel disease .
Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are also indicated for reducing the volume of discharge from ileostomies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to loperamide hydrochloride or to any of the excipients .
Loperamide hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with abdominal pain in the absence of diarrhea .
Loperamide hydrochloride is not recommended in infants below 24 months of age .
Loperamide hydrochloride should not be used as the primary therapy : • in patients with acute dysentery , which is characterized by blood in stools and high fever , • in patients with acute ulcerative colitis , • in patients with bacterial enterocolitis caused by invasive organisms including Salmonella , Shigella , and Campylobacter , • in patients with pseudomembranous colitis associated with the use of broad - spectrum antibiotics .
WARNINGS Fluid and electrolyte depletion often occur in patients who have diarrhea .
In such cases , administration of appropriate fluid and electrolytes is very important .
The use of loperamide hydrochloride does not preclude the need for appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy .
In general , loperamide hydrochloride should not be used when inhibition of peristalsis is to be avoided due to the possible risk of significant sequelae including ileus , megacolon and toxic megacolon .
Loperamide hydrochloride must be discontinued promptly when constipation , abdominal distention or ileus develop .
Treatment of diarrhea with loperamide hydrochloride is only symptomatic .
Whenever an underlying etiology can be determined , specific treatment should be given when appropriate ( or when indicated ) .
Patients with AIDS treated with loperamide hydrochloride for diarrhea should have therapy stopped at the earliest signs of abdominal distention .
There have been isolated reports of toxic megacolon in AIDS patients with infectious colitis from both viral and bacterial pathogens treated with loperamide hydrochloride .
{ ref EDMS - PSDB - 2564186 , p . 12 } Loperamide hydrochloride should be used with special caution in young children because of the greater variability of response in this age group .
Dehydration , particularly in younger children , may further influence the variability of response to loperamide hydrochloride .
PRECAUTIONS General Extremely rare allergic reactions including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock have been reported .
In acute diarrhea , if clinical improvement is not observed in 48 hours , the administration of loperamide hydrochloride should be discontinued and patients should be advised to consult their physician .
Although no pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic impairment , loperamide hydrochloride should be used with caution in such patients because of reduced first pass metabolism .
Patients with hepatic dysfunction should be monitored closely for signs of CNS toxicity .
No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with renal impairment .
Since it has been reported that the majority of the drug is metabolized and metabolites or the unchanged drug is excreted mainly in the feces , dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment are not required .
No formal studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of loperamide in elderly subjects .
However , in two studies that enrolled elderly patients , there were no major differences in the drug disposition in elderly patients with diarrhea relative to young patients .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised to check with their physician if their diarrhea does not improve in 48 hours or if they note blood in their stools , develop a fever or develop abdominal distention .
Tiredness , dizziness , or drowsiness may occur in the setting of diarrheal syndromes treated with loperamide hydrochloride .
Therefore , it is advisable to use caution when driving a car or operating machinery .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Drug Interactions Nonclinical data have shown that loperamide is a P - glycoprotein substrate .
Concomitant administration of loperamide ( 16 mg single dose ) with a 600 mg single dose of either quinidine or ritonavir , both of which are P - glycoprotein inhibitors , resulted in a 2 to 3 fold increase in loperamide plasma levels .
Due to the potential for enhanced central effects when loperamide is coadministered with quinidine and with ritonavir , caution should be exercised when loperamide is administered at the recommended dosages ( 2 mg , up to 16 mg maximum daily dose ) with P - glycoprotein inhibitors .
When a single 16 mg dose of loperamide is coadministered with a 600 mg single dose of saquinavir , loperamide decreased saquinavir exposure by 54 % , which may be of clinical relevance due to reduction of therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir .
The effect of saquinavir on loperamide is of less clinical significance .
Therefore , when loperamide is given with saquinavir , the therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir should be closely monitored .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an 18 month rat study with oral doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 21 times the maximum human dose of 16 mg / day , based on a body surface area comparison ) , there was no evidence of carcinogenesis .
Loperamide was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the SOS chromotest in E . coli , the dominant lethal test in female mice , or the mouse embryo cell transformation assay .
Fertility and reproductive performance was evaluated in rats using oral doses of 2 . 5 , 10 , and 40 mg / kg / day in one study , and 1 , 5 , 10 , 20 , and 40 mg / kg / day ( females only ) in a second study .
Oral administration of 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 11 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) and higher produced strong impairment of female fertility .
Treatment of female rats with up to 10 mg / kg / day p . o . ( approximately 5 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) had no effect on fertility .
Treatment of male rats with 40 mg / kg / day p . o . ( approximately 21 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) produced impairment of male fertility , whereas administration of up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) had no effect .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C Teratology studies have been performed in rats using oral doses of 2 . 5 , 10 , and 40 mg / kg / day , and in rabbits using oral doses of 5 , 20 , and 40 mg / kg / day .
These studies have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day in rats ( 5 times the human dose based on body surface area comparison ) and 40 mg / kg / day in rabbits ( 43 times the human dose based on body surface area comparison ) .
Treatment of rats with 40 mg / kg / day p . o . ( 21 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison ) produced marked impairment of fertility .
The studies produced no evidence of teratogenic activity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Loperamide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Non - teratogenic Effects In a peri - and post - natal reproduction study in rats , oral administration of 40 mg / kg / day produced impairment of growth and survival of offspring .
Nursing Mothers Small amounts of loperamide may appear in human breast milk .
Therefore , loperamide hydrochloride is not recommended during breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use See the WARNINGS section for information on the greater variability of response in this age group .
In case of accidental overdosage of loperamide hydrochloride by pediatric patients , see OVERDOSAGE section for suggested treatment .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trial Data The adverse effects reported during clinical investigations of loperamide hydrochloride are difficult to distinguish from symptoms associated with the diarrheal syndrome .
Adverse experiences recorded during clinical studies with loperamide hydrochloride were generally of a minor and self - limiting nature .
They were more commonly observed during the treatment of chronic diarrhea .
The adverse events reported are summarized irrespective of the causality assessment of the investigators .
1 ) Adverse events from 4 placebo - controlled studies in patients with acute diarrhea The adverse events with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or greater , which were reported at least as often in patients on loperamide hydrochloride as on placebo , are presented in the table below .
Acute Diarrhea Loperamide Hydrochloride Placebo No .
of treated patients 231 236 Gastrointestinal AE % Constipation 2 . 6 % 0 . 8 % The adverse events with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or greater , which were more frequently reported in patients on placebo than on loperamide hydrochloride were : dry mouth , flatulence , abdominal cramp and colic .
2 ) Adverse events from 20 placebo - controlled studies in patients with chronic diarrhea The adverse events with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or greater , which were reported at least as often in patients on loperamide hydrochloride as on placebo , are presented below in the table below .
Chronic Diarrhea Loperamide Hydrochloride Placebo No .
of treated patients 285 277 Gastrointestinal AE % Constipation 5 . 3 % 0 % Central and peripheral nervous system AE % Dizziness 1 . 4 % 0 . 7 % The adverse events with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or greater , which were more frequently reported in patients on placebo than on loperamide hydrochloride were : nausea , vomiting , headache , meteorism , abdominal pain , abdominal cramp and colic .
3 ) Adverse events from seventy - six controlled and uncontrolled studies in patients with acute or chronic diarrhea The adverse events with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or greater in patients from all studies are given in the table below .
Acute Diarrhea Chronic Diarrhea All Studies [ 1 ] No .
of treated patients 1913 1371 3740 Gastrointestinal AE % Nausea 0 . 7 % 3 . 2 % 1 . 8 % Constipation 1 . 6 % 1 . 9 % 1 . 7 % Abdominal cramps 0 . 5 % 3 . 0 % 1 . 4 % [ 1 ] All patients in all studies , including those in which it was not specified if the adverse events occurred in patients with acute or chronic diarrhea .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse events have been reported : Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash , pruritus , urticaria , angioedema , and extremely rare cases of bullous eruption including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis have been reported with use of loperamide hydrochloride .
Immune System Disorders Isolated occurrences of allergic reactions and in some cases severe hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with the use of loperamide hydrochloride .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Dry mouth , abdominal pain , distention or discomfort , nausea , vomiting , flatulence , dyspepsia , constipation , paralytic ileus , megacolon , including toxic megacolon ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary retention .
Nervous System Disorders Drowsiness , dizziness .
General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions Tiredness .
A number of the adverse events reported during the clinical investigations and postmarketing experience with loperamide are frequent symptoms of the underlying diarrheal syndrome ( abdominal pain / discomfort , nausea , vomiting , dry mouth , tiredness , drowsiness , dizziness , constipation , and flatulence ) .
These symptoms are often difficult to distinguish from undesirable drug effects .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse A specific clinical study designed to assess the abuse potential of loperamide at high doses resulted in a finding of extremely low abuse potential .
Dependence Studies in morphine - dependent monkeys demonstrated that loperamide hydrochloride at doses above those recommended for humans prevented signs of morphine withdrawal .
However , in humans , the naloxone challenge pupil test , which when positive indicates opiate - like effects , performed after a single high dose , or after more than two years of therapeutic use of loperamide hydrochloride , was negative .
Orally administered loperamide hydrochloride capsules ( loperamide formulated with magnesium stearate ) are both highly insoluble and penetrate the CNS poorly .
OVERDOSAGE In cases of overdosage , ( including relative overdose due to hepatic dysfunction ) , urinary retention , paralytic ileus and CNS depression may occur .
Children may be more sensitive to CNS effects than adults .
Clinical trials have demonstrated that a slurry of activated charcoal administered promptly after ingestion of loperamide hydrochloride can reduce the amount of drug which is absorbed into the systemic circulation by as much as ninefold .
If vomiting occurs spontaneously upon ingestion , a slurry of 100 grams of activated charcoal should be administered orally as soon as fluids can be retained .
If vomiting has not occurred , gastric lavage should be performed followed by administration of 100 grams of the activated charcoal slurry through the gastric tube .
In the event of overdosage , patients should be monitored for signs of CNS depression for at least 24 hours .
If symptoms of overdose occur , naloxone can be given as an antidote .
If responsive to naloxone , vital signs must be monitored carefully for recurrence of symptoms of drug overdose for at least 24 hours after the last dose of naloxone .
In view of the prolonged action of loperamide and the short duration ( one to three hours ) of naloxone , the patient must be monitored closely and treated repeatedly with naloxone as indicated .
Since relatively little drug is excreted in the urine , forced diuresis is not expected to be effective for loperamide hydrochloride overdosage .
In clinical trials an adult who took three 20 mg doses within a 24 hour period was nauseated after the second dose and vomited after the third dose .
In studies designed to examine the potential for side effects , intentional ingestion of up to 60 mg of loperamide hydrochloride in a single dose to healthy subjects resulted in no significant adverse effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 1 capsule = 2 mg ) Patients should receive appropriate fluid and electrolyte replacement as needed .
Acute Diarrhea Adults The recommended initial dose is 4 mg ( two capsules ) followed by 2 mg ( one capsule ) after each unformed stool .
Daily dosage should not exceed 16 mg ( eight capsules ) .
Clinical improvement is usually observed within 48 hours .
Children In children 2 to 5 years of age ( 20 kg or less ) , the non - prescription liquid formulation ( loperamide hydrochloride for oral solution , 1 mg / 5 mL ) should be used ; for ages 6 to 12 , either loperamide hydrochloride capsules or loperamide hydrochloride for oral solution may be used .
For children 2 to 12 years of age , the following schedule for capsules or liquid will usually fulfill initial dosage requirements : Recommended First Day Dosage Schedule Two to five years : 1 mg t . i . d . ( 3 mg daily dose ) ( 13 to 20 kg ) Six to eight years : 2 mg b . i . d . ( 4 mg daily dose ) ( 20 to 30 kg ) Eight to twelve years : 2 mg t . i . d . ( 6 mg daily dose ) ( greater than 30 kg ) Recommended Subsequent Daily Dosage Following the first treatment day , it is recommended that subsequent loperamide hydrochloride doses ( 1 mg / 10 kg body weight ) be administered only after a loose stool .
Total daily dosage should not exceed recommended dosages for the first day .
Chronic Diarrhea Children Although loperamide hydrochloride has been studied in a limited number of children with chronic diarrhea ; the therapeutic dose for the treatment of chronic diarrhea in a pediatric population has not been established .
Adults The recommended initial dose is 4 mg ( two capsules ) followed by 2 mg ( one capsule ) after each unformed stool until diarrhea is controlled , after which the dosage of loperamide hydrochloride capsules should be reduced to meet individual requirements .
When the optimal daily dosage has been established , this amount may then be administered as a single dose or in divided doses .
The average daily maintenance dosage in clinical trials was 4 to 8 mg ( two to four capsules ) .
A dosage of 16 mg ( eight capsules ) was rarely exceeded .
If clinical improvement is not observed after treatment with 16 mg per day for at least 10 days , symptoms are unlikely to be controlled by further administration .
Loperamide hydrochloride capsules administration may be continued if diarrhea cannot be adequately controlled with diet or specific treatment .
Children Under 2 Years The use of loperamide hydrochloride in children under 2 years is not recommended .
There have been rare reports of paralytic ileus associated with abdominal distention .
Most of these reports occurred in the setting of acute dysentery , overdose , and with very young children less than two years of age .
Elderly No formal pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in elderly subjects .
However , there were no major differences reported in the drug disposition in elderly patients with diarrhea relative to young patients .
No dosage adjustment is required for the elderly .
Renal Impairment No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with renal impairment .
Since the metabolites and the unchanged drug are mainly excreted in the feces , no dosage adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Hepatic Impairment Although no pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic impairment , loperamide hydrochloride should be used with caution in such patients because of reduced first pass metabolism ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Loperamide hydrochloride capsules USP , 2 mg are available as : A light brown opaque body and dark brown opaque capsule , imprinted " TEVA " on the cap and " 0311 " on the body and packaged in : Bottles of 10 - NDC # 16590 - 423 - 10 Bottles of 12 - NDC # 16590 - 423 - 12 Bottles of 20 - NDC # 16590 - 423 - 20 Bottles of 30 - NDC # 16590 - 423 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a well - closed container , as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA Sellersville , PA 18960 Rev . M 3 / 2011 Relabeling and Repackaging by : STAT Rx USA LLC Gainesville , GA 30501 PACKAGE LABEL - LOPERAMIDE 2 MG CAPSULES LOPERAMIDE HYDROCHLORIDE Capsules , USP 2 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
