WARNING : DEATH IN PRETERM INFANTS • Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported in the medical literature .
• Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
• Preterm infants and low birth weight infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] WARNING : DEATH IN PRETERM INFANTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Deaths in preterm infants have been reported in literature .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Preterm and low birth weight infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 9 / 2020 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) 7 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nutrilipid ® 20 % is indicated as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for parenteral nutrition and as a source of essential fatty acids when a deficiency occurs when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
Nutrilipid ® 20 % is indicated as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for parenteral nutrition and as a source of essential fatty acids when a deficiency occurs when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Nutrilipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct intravenous administration ( 2 . 1 ) • For intravenous infusion only through a peripheral or central line ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dosage depends on age , energy expenditure , clinical status , body weight , tolerance , ability to metabolize and consideration of additional energy given to the patient ( 2 . 4 ) Age Nutritional Requirements Initial Recommended Dosage Maximum Dosage Preterm and term infants ( < 1 year ) 1 to 2 g / kg / day 3 g / kg / day Pediatric patients 1 to 10 years Pediatric patients 11 to < 17 years 1 g / kg / day 2 . 5 g / kg / day Adults 1 to 1 . 5 g / kg / day 2 . 5 g / kg / day 2 . 1 Administration Instructions • Nutrilipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct intravenous administration .
• Nutrilipid ® 20 % is for intravenous infusion only through a peripheral or central line .
When administered with dextrose and amino acids , the choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air vent on a vented set .
Use of a vented intravenous administration set with the vent in the open position could result in air embolism .
• Use a dedicated line without any connections .
Multiple connections could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
• Use a 1 . 2 micron in - line filter .
• Nutrilipid ® 20 % can be infused concurrently into the same vein as carbohydrate - amino acid solutions by means of a Y - connector located near the infusion site ; flow rates of each solution should be controlled separately by infusion pumps .
• Do not use administration sets and lines that contain di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) .
Conventional administration sets contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components that have DEHP as a plasticizer .
2 . 2 Preparation Instructions for Nutrilipid ® 20 % Bags for Direct Infusion Caution : Nutrilipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct intravenous administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Inspect infusion bag overwrap and primary bag and do not use if damaged .
Inspect oxygen indicator and do not use if oxygen indicator is pink or dark pink .
Use only if container and seals are intact .
Step 2 : To open , tear overwrap starting from the tear notches ( Figure 1 ) .
Remove Nutrilipid ® 20 % bag from overwrap and discard oxygen indicator , oxygen absorber and overwrap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Inspect Nutrilipid ® 20 % bag visually ( Figure 2 ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Inspect Nutrilipid ® 20 % to ensure that the emulsion has not separated .
Discard the bag if any particulates or discoloration are observed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Remove aluminum foil of outlet port at the bottom of the bag ( Figure 3 a ) and attach administration set ( Figure 3 b ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use / penetrate blocked port .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Hang bag on IV Pole ( Figure 4 ) .
If infusion pumps are used , flow rates of each parenteral fluid should be controlled with a separate pump .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not connect flexible bags in series to avoid air embolism due to possible residual gas contained in the primary bag .
Air embolism can result if residual gas in the bag is not fully evacuated prior to administration if the flexible bag is pressurized to increase flow rates .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , discontinue pumping action before the bag runs dry to avoid air embolism .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 Preparation Instructions for Admixing Using Total Parenteral Nutrition Pooling Bags • Prepare the admixture into pooling bags using strict aseptic techniques to avoid microbial contamination .
• Do not add additives directly to Nutrilipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package .
• Some additives may be incompatible and should not be used .
If it is deemed advisable to introduce additives , prepare the admixture using strict aseptic techniques to avoid microbial contamination .
Additions to the pooling bag should be evaluated by a pharmacist for compatibility .
Questions about compatibility may be directed to B . Braun Medical Inc . , Medical Affairs .
• Do not add Nutrilipid ® 20 % to the pooling bag first ; destabilization of the lipid may occur from such an admixture .
• The following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH related problems by ensuring that typically acidic Dextrose Injections are not mixed with lipid emulsions alone : Manual Admixing • Manually transfer Dextrose Injection to the Total Parental Nutrition Admixture Container • Manually transfer Amino Acid Injection • Manually transfer Nutrilipid ® 20 % Use gentle agitation during admixing to minimize localized concentration effects ; shake bags gently after each addition .
Automated Device Admixing When admixing parenteral nutrition using an automated device , the Nutrilipid 20 % must be separated from the dextrose product by an amino acid product or other non - acidic products .
• The prime destabilizers of emulsions are excessive acidity ( such as pH below 5 ) and inappropriate electrolyte content .
Give careful consideration to additions of divalent cations ( Ca + + and Mg + + ) , which have been shown to cause emulsion instability .
Amino acid solutions exert buffering effects that protect the emulsion .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Inspect Nutrilipid ® 20 % to ensure that : • precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives and • the emulsion has not separated .
Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixed emulsion .
Discard the admixture if any of the above are observed .
• If using an Automated Device , follow the manufacturer instructions .
• Use of the Pharmacy Bulk Package for admixing should be limited to up to four hours after opening .
• Admixtures should be used promptly with storage under refrigeration ( 2 - 8 ° C ) not to exceed 24 hours and must be completely used within 24 hours after removal from refrigeration .
• Do not connect flexible bags in series to avoid air embolism due to possible residual gas contained in the primary bag .
• Air embolism can result if residual gas in the bag is not fully evacuated prior to administration if the flexible bag is pressurized to increase flow rates .
• If administration is controlled by a pumping device , discontinue pumping action before the bag runs dry to avoid air embolism .
2 . 4 Dosing Considerations The dosing of Nutrilipid ® 20 % depends on the patient ’ s individual energy requirements , influenced by body weight , tolerance , clinical status , age - related growth rate in pediatric patients , and the ability to eliminate and metabolize fat .
For partial parenteral nutrition , energy supplied by oral or enteral nutrition has to be taken into account .
For complete parenteral nutrition , concomitant supplementation with amino acids , carbohydrates , electrolytes , vitamins , and trace elements is necessary .
Prior to administration of Nutrilipid ® 20 % , correct severe water and electrolyte disorders , severe fluid overload states , and severe metabolic disorders .
Before starting the infusion , obtain serum triglyceride levels to establish the baseline value .
Recommended Adult and Pediatric Dosing The recommended nutritional requirements of fat and recommended dosages of Nutrilipid ® 20 % to be administered to meet those requirements for adults and pediatric patients are provided in Table 1 , along with recommendations for the initial and maximum infusion rates .
The recommended duration of infusion for Nutrilipid ® 20 % is between 12 and 24 hours , depending on the clinical situation .
Adjust the administration flow rate by taking into account the dose being administered , the daily volume / intake , and the duration of the infusion [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Treatment with parenteral nutrition may be continued for as long as is required by the patient ’ s condition .
In patients with elevated triglyceride levels , initiate Nutrilipid ® 20 % injection at a lower dose , and advance in smaller increments , monitoring the triglyceride levels with each adjustment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
When Nutrilipid ® 20 % is administered to correct essential fatty acid deficiency , 8 % to 10 % of the caloric input should be supplied by Nutrilipid ® 20 % in order to provide adequate amounts of linoleic and linolenic acids .
Table 1 : Adult and Pediatric Nutritional Requirements1 , 2 as Provided by Nutrilipid ® 20 % and Infusion Rate for Direct Infusion Only Age Nutritional Requirements Direct Infusion Rate [ 1 ] Recommended Initial Dosage and Maximum Dosage Initial Maximum Preterm and term infants ( less than 1 year of age ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Initial 1 to 2 g / kg / day not to exceed 3 g / kg / day [ 2 ] 0 . 05 mL / min for the first 10 to 15 minutes ; gradually increase to the required rate after 15 minutes 0 . 75 mL / kg / hour Pediatric patients 1 to 10 years of age Initial 1 to 2 g / kg / day not to exceed 3 g / kg / day null 0 . 75 mL / kg / hour Pediatric patients 11 to < 17 years of age Initial 1 g / kg / day not to exceed 2 . 5 g / kg / day null 0 . 5 mL / kg / hour Adults 1 to 1 . 5 g / kg / day not to exceed 2 . 5 g / kg / day null 0 . 5 mL / min for the first 15 to 30 minutes ; gradually increase to the required rate after 30 minutes 0 . 5 mL / kg / hour [ 1 ] Nutrilipid ® 20 % Pharmacy Bulk Package is not intended for direct intravenous administration .
[ 2 ] Daily dose should also not exceed a maximum of 60 % of total energy requirements [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nutrilipid ® 20 % is a lipid injectable emulsion : • Lipid content of 0 . 2 grams / mL in 250 mL and 500 mL • Lipid content of 0 . 2 grams / mL in 1000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package Nutrilipid ® 20 % is a lipid injectable emulsion : • Lipid content of 0 . 2 grams / mL in 250 mL and 500 mL • Lipid content of 0 . 2 grams / mL in 1000 mL Pharmacy Bulk Package ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nutrilipid ® 20 % injection is contraindicated in patients who have : • Known hypersensitivity to egg or soybean proteins or to any of the ingredients , including excipients , or • Severe hyperlipidemia ( serum triglyceride concentrations above 1000 mg / dL ) or severe disorders of lipid metabolism characterized by hypertriglyceridemia .
• Known hypersensitivity to egg and soybean proteins , the lipid emulsion and / or excipients ( 4 ) • Severe hyperlipidemia or severe disorders of lipid metabolism characterized by hypertriglyceridemia ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur ( 5 . 2 ) • Infection , fat overload , and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms ; monitor laboratory parameters ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported .
Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs .
Base the decision to treat preterm and small for gestational age infants with intravenous lipid emulsion upon careful benefit - risk assessment .
Strictly adhere to the recommended total daily dose ; hourly infusion rate should be as slow as possible and should not exceed 0 . 75 mL / kg / hour [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following fat emulsion infusion ; therefore , seriously consider administration of less than the maximum recommended doses in these patients in order to decrease the likelihood of intravenous fat overload .
Carefully monitor the infant ’ s ability to eliminate the infused lipids from the circulation ( such as serum triglycerides and / or plasma free fatty acid levels ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Because of the risk of thrombocytopenia , monitor platelet counts frequently in neonatal patients receiving parenteral nutrition with Nutrilipid ® 20 % .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop .
Signs or symptoms may include : tachypnea , dyspnea , hypoxia , bronchospasm , tachycardia , hypotension , cyanosis , vomiting , nausea , headache , sweating , dizziness , altered mentation , flushing , rash , urticaria , erythema , pyrexia , and chills .
5 . 3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state .
Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition , poor maintenance of catheters , or immunosuppressive effects of illness , drugs , and parenteral formulations .
Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance , as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula .
Carefully monitor for signs and symptoms ( including fever and chills ) of early infections , including laboratory test results ( including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia ) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device .
5 . 4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations .
A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipids contained in Nutrilipid ® 20 % accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient ' s condition accompanied by fever , anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorders , hyperlipidemia , liver fatty infiltration ( hepatomegaly ) , deteriorating liver function , and central nervous system manifestations ( e . g . , coma ) .
The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear .
The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped .
Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dose was exceeded , cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions .
5 . 5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome , characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes , while avoiding overfeeding , to prevent these complications .
5 . 6 Monitoring / Laboratory Tests Monitor fluid status closely in patients with pulmonary edema or heart failure .
Monitor serum triglycerides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , blood count ( including platelets ) , and coagulation parameters throughout treatment .
5 . 7 Interference with Laboratory Tests Content of Vitamin K may counteract anticoagulant activity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The lipids contained in this emulsion may interfere with the results of certain laboratory tests if the blood sample is taken before the lipids are eliminated from the serum ( these are generally eliminated after a period of 5 to 6 hours without receiving lipids ) .
5 . 8 Aluminum Toxicity Nutrilipid ® 20 % contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
The aluminum contained in Nutrilipid ® 20 % may reach toxic levels with prolonged administration in patients with impaired kidney function .
Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum .
Patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day , accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products .
5 . 9 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease ( PNALD ) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time , especially preterm infants , and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis .
The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial .
Intravenously administered phytosterols ( plant sterols ) contained in plant - derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been clearly established .
If Nutrilipid ® 20 % treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dose reduction .
5 . 10 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient ’ s capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion , measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion ( baseline value ) , with each increase in dosage , and regularly throughout treatment .
Reduce dose of Nutrilipid ® 20 % and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg / dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia .
Serum triglyceride levels above 1000 mg / dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis .
Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders , obesity , diabetes mellitus , and metabolic syndrome .
In these cases , increased triglycerides can also be increased by glucose and / or overfeeding .
Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of fat and glucose , as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and glucose metabolism .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Reactions described elsewhere in labeling : • Death in Preterm Infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fat Overload Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Refeeding Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Aluminum Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Hypertriglyceridemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Adverse reactions have included hyperlipidemia , hypercoagulability , thrombophlebitis , thrombocytopenia ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact B . Braun Medical Inc . at 1 - 800 - 854 - 6851 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse reactions reported with other intravenous lipid emulsions include hyperlipidemia , hypercoagulability , thrombophlebitis , and thrombocytopenia .
Adverse reactions reported in long - term use with other intravenous lipid emulsions include hepatomegaly , jaundice due to central lobular cholestasis , splenomegaly , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , abnormalities in liver function tests , brown pigmentation of the liver and overloading syndrome ( focal seizures , fever , leukocytosis , hepatomegaly , splenomegaly and shock ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives , including warfarin : Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted ; monitor laboratory parameters ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in Nutrilipid ® 20 % has vitamin K1 .
Vitamin K can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin and coumarin derivatives , including warfarin , which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K . Monitor laboratory parameters for anticoagulant activity in patients who are on both Nutrilipid ® 20 % and coumarin or coumarin derivatives .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic Impairment : Use with caution ; monitor liver function parameters ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate or well controlled studies with Nutrilipid ® 20 % in pregnant women .
Additionally , animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Nutrilipid ® 20 % .
It is not known whether Nutrilipid ® 20 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nutrilipid ® 20 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether Nutrilipid ® 20 % is present in human milk .
Because many drugs are present in human milk , caution should be exercised when Nutrilipid ® 20 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The evidence for safety and efficacy in pediatric patients of Nutrilipid ® 20 % as a source of calories and essential fatty acids for parenteral nutrition and as a source of essential fatty acids when a deficiency occurs when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated is derived from the published literature and clinical experience with similar soybean oil based intravenous lipid emulsions .
Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsion have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients , particularly preterm infants , are at risk for aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Patients , including pediatric patients , may be at risk for PNALD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
In clinical trials of a pure soybean oil based intravenous lipid emulsion product , thrombocytopenia in neonates occurred ( less than 1 % ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Nutrilipid ® 20 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Parenteral nutrition should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition , including cholestasis , hepatic steatosis , fibrosis and cirrhosis ( parenteral nutrition associated liver disease ) , possibly leading to hepatic failure .
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis have also been observed .
The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients .
Monitor liver function parameters closely .
Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors , and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , fat overload syndrome may result [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Stop the infusion to allow lipids to clear from serum .
The effects are usually reversible after the lipid infusion is stopped .
If medically appropriate , further intervention may be indicated .
The lipid administered and fatty acids produced are not dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION Nutrilipid ® 20 % is a sterile , nonpyrogenic fat emulsion prepared for intravenous administration .
Each 100 mL of Nutrilipid ® 20 % contains : Soybean Oil 20 g ; Egg Yolk Phospholipid 1 . 2 g ; Glycerin USP ( glycerol ) 2 . 5 g ; Sodium Oleate 0 . 03 g ; Water for Injection USP qs .
pH adjusted with Sodium Hydroxide NF .
pH : 6 . 8 ( 6 . 0 - 8 . 9 ) ; Osmolality : 390 mOsmolKg ( actual ) .
Contains emulsified fat particles averaging approximately 0 . 26 micron in diameter , similar to naturally occurring chylomicrons .
The total caloric value , including fat , phospholipid , and glycerol is 2 . 0 Kcal per mL .
Soybean oil is a refined natural product consisting of a mixture of neutral triglycerides of predominantly unsaturated fatty acids with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] are saturated and unsaturated fatty acid residues .
The major component fatty acids are linoleic ( 48 % - 58 % ) , oleic ( 17 % - 30 % ) , palmitic ( 9 % - 13 % ) , linolenic ( 4 % - 11 % ) , and stearic ( 2 . 5 % - 5 . 0 % ) .
These fatty acids have the folIowing chemical and structural formulas : Linoleic Acid C18H32O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oleic Acid C18H34O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Palmitic Acid C16H32O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linolenic Acid C18H30O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stearic Acid C18H36O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Egg yolk phospholipids are a mixture of naturally occurring phospholipids isolated from egg yolk .
Glycerol is chemically designated C3H803 and is a clear colorless , hygroscopic syrupy liquid .
It is added to adjust tonicity .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Drug product contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nutrilipid ® 20 % administered intravenously provides biologically utilizable source of calories and essential fatty acids .
Fatty acids serve as an important substrate for energy production .
The most common mechanism of action for energy production derived from fatty acid metabolism is beta oxidation .
Fatty acids are important for membrane structure and function , precursors for bioactive molecules ( such as prostaglandins ) , and as regulators of gene expression .
Nutrilipid ® 20 % causes an increase in heat production , decrease in respiratory quotient , and increase in oxygen consumption following its administration .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The infused lipid particles are removed from the bloodstream in a manner generally thought to be similar to the enzymatic clearance of naturally produced chylomicrons formed after enteral fat intake .
Following infusion , there is a transient increase in plasma triglycerides .
The triglycerides are hydrolyzed to free fatty acids and glycerol by the enzyme lipoprotein lipase .
The free fatty acids either enter the tissues ( where they may be oxidized or resynthesized into triglycerides and stored ) or circulate in the plasma , bound to albumin .
In the liver , circulating free fatty acids are oxidized or converted to very low density lipoproteins that re - enter the bloodstream .
Phosphatides are the hydrophobic components of membranes and provide electrically insulated layers .
They are involved in the formation of membrane structures .
Choline prevents deposition of fat in the liver .
Glycerol is metabolized to carbon dioxide and glycogen or is used in the synthesis of body fats .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Nutrilipid ® 20 % , or its effects on fertility .
Genotoxic studies have not been conducted with Nutrilipid ® 20 % to assess its mutagenic potential .
15 REFERENCES • Carney LN , Nepa A , Cohen SS , Dean A , Yanni C , Markowitz G . Chapter 34 .
Parenteral and enteral nutrition support : Determining the best way to feed .
IN : The A . S . P . E . N . Pediatric Nutrition Support Core Curriculum .
Corkins MR ( editor in chief ) .
American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition , Silver Spring , MD : 2010 , pages 433 - 447 .
• Mirtallo J , Canada T , Johnson D , Kumpf V , Petersen C , Sacks G , et al .
Task Force for the Revision of Safe Practices for Parenteral Nutrition , Special Report : safe practices for parenteral nutrition .
JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr : 2004 , 28 ( 6 Suppl ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Nutrilipid ® 20 % is supplied as a sterile emulsion in the following fill sizes : NDC REF Volume 0264 - 4460 - 00 S4600 1000 mL in Pharmacy Bulk Package container 0264 - 4460 - 10 S4601 500 mL 0264 - 4460 - 30 S4603 250 mL Do not freeze .
If accidentally frozen , discard the container .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Use of the Pharmacy Bulk Package for admixing should be limited to up to four hours after opening .
Admixtures should be used promptly with storage under refrigeration ( 2 - 8 ° C ) not to exceed 24 hours and must be completely used within 24 hours after removal from refrigeration .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients of the following : • Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions such as Nutrilipid ® 20 % injection have been reported .
Blood tests will be performed during treatment to monitor for the infant ’ s ability to eliminate the infused lipids .
• Laboratory monitoring throughout treatment may be necessary .
Advise patients to comply with periodic laboratory tests and routine follow up with their healthcare provider .
• Allergic reactions to Nutrilipid ® 20 % can occur .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they experience any signs or symptoms of an allergic reaction , including wheezing , swelling of the lips , tongue or throat , an itchy rash , difficulty breathing , rapid heart rate or feeling faint .
• Risk of infection and sepsis is increased with Nutrilipid ® 20 % and other products administered through an intravenous catheter .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they develop any signs or symptoms of infection including redness extended from the injection site , fever or chills .
If Nutrilipid ® 20 % is administered by the patient at home , also instruct patients : • Not to deviate from the administration instructions given by the healthcare provider .
• Inspect the bag visually for particulate matter and to ensure the lipid emulsion is an evenly distributed liquid with a milky appearance with no visible oil droplets at the surface prior to administration .
Discard the bag and contact the healthcare provider if particulates or discoloration are observed .
• Ensure that there is an in - line filter in place prior to and during administration .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air vent on a vented set .
Use of a vented intravenous administration set with the vent in the open position could result in air embolism .
• If administration is controlled by a pumping device , discontinue pumping action before the bag runs dry to avoid air embolism .
• Any remaining product from partially used bag must be discarded .
• Inform their healthcare provider about any changes in prescription or over - the - counter medications and supplements .
Nutrilipid is a registered trademark of B . Braun Melsungen AG .
Intralipid is a registered trademark of Fresenius Kabi AB .
Rx only Manufactured for B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Made in Germany LD - 217 - 3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL REF S4600 NDC 0264 - 4460 - 00 LOT EXP : SN : Nutrilipid ® 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion 1000 mL For Intravenous Use Each 100 mL contains : Soybean Oil 20 g Egg Phospholipids , USP 1 . 2 g Sodium Oleate 0 . 03 g Glycerin , USP 2 . 5 g Water for Injection q . s . Pharmacy Bulk Package Not For Direct Infusion Once container closure has been penetrated , the emulsion should be used without delay .
See package insert for proper use .
Contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Sterile .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not freeze Nutrilipid 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
Do not use if there appears to be any separation of the emulsion .
Not made with natural rubber latex , DEHP or PVC .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA Made in Germany SET 370 / 12615443 / 0920 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL REF S4601 NDC 0264 - 4460 - 10 LOT EXP : SN : Nutrilipid ® 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion 500 mL For Intravenous Use Each 100 mL contains : Soybean Oil 20 g Egg Phospholipids , USP 1 . 2 g Sodium Oleate 0 . 03 g Glycerin , USP 2 . 5 g Water for Injection q . s . Administer intravenously .
Once container closure has been penetrated , the emulsion should be used without delay .
See package insert for proper use .
Contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Sterile .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not freeze Nutrilipid 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
Do not use if there appears to be any separation of the emulsion .
Not made with natural rubber latex , DEHP , or PVC .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA Made in Germany SET 370 / 12615441 / 0920 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mL Nutrilipid ® 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion 250 mL REF S4603 NDC 0264 - 4460 - 30 For Intravenous Use Each 100 mL contains : Soybean Oil 20 g Egg Phospholipids , USP 1 . 2 g Sodium Oleate 0 . 03 g Glycerin , USP 2 . 5 g Water for Injection q . s . Administer intravenously .
Once container closure has been penetrated , the emulsion should be used without delay .
See package insert for proper use .
Contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Sterile .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not freeze Nutrilipid 20 % I . V . Fat Emulsion .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
Do not use if there appears to be any separation of the emulsion .
Not made with natural rubber latex , DEHP , or PVC .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA Made in Germany LOT EXP : SN : SET 370 / 0920 12615437 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
