Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 14 % Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use On damaged or broken skin Ask Doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash develops When using • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 degrees F . Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Spray on hands and apply to face • use in well - ventilated area • do not inhale • children under 6 months : ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum value of 15 or higher along with other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a .
m . - 2 p . m . • wear long sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Bentonite , Bisabolol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Cellulose Gum , Cetearyl Alcohol , Coco - Glucoside , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Jojoba Esters , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Tocopherol , Water .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 833 - 909 - 2662 Monday - Friday 9 am - 5 pm MST [ MULTIMEDIA ] SPF 30 Sunscreen Spray NDC : 81757 - 002 - 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
