( Sterile ) Rx only FOR USE IN EARS ONLY DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Hydrocortisone Otic Solution , USP is a sterile antibacterial and anti - inflammatory solution for otic use .
Each mL contains : ACTIVES : Neomycin sulfate equivalent to 3 . 5 mg neomycin base , polymyxin B sulfate equivalent to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , and hydrocortisone 10 mg ( 1 % ) ; INACTIVES : Propylene Glycol , Hydrochloric Acid , Potassium Metabisulfite , Cupric Sulfate , Glycerin , Purified Water .
The pH range is 2 . 0 to 4 . 5 .
Neomycin sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C , which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent of not less than 600 micrograms of neomycin standard per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 , which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa , ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formulae are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone , 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , is an anti - inflammatory hormone .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C21H30O5 Mol .
Wt .
362 . 46 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Corticoids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they may delay healing .
Since corticoids may inhibit the body ’ s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
The anti - infective components in the combination are included to provide action against specific organisms susceptible to them .
Neomycin sulfate and polymyxin B sulfate together are considered active against the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella - Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens and streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For the treatment of superficial bacterial infections of the external auditory canal caused by organisms susceptible to the action of the antibiotics .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
This product should not be used if the external auditory canal disorder is suspected or known to be due to cutaneous viral infection ( for example , herpes simplex virus or varicella zoster virus ) .
WARNINGS : Neomycin can induce permanent sensorineural hearing loss due to cochlear damage , mainly destruction of hair cells in the organ of Corti .
The risk of ototoxicity is greater with prolonged use ; therefore , duration of therapy should be limited to 10 consecutive days ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
Patients being treated with eardrops containing neomycin should be under close clinical observation .
Due to its acidity , which may cause burning and stinging , neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone otic solution should not be used in any patients with a perforated tympanic membrane .
Neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
A precise incidence of hypersensitivity reactions ( primarily skin rash ) due to topical neomycin is not known .
Discontinue this product promptly if sensitization or irritation occurs .
When using neomycin - containing products to control secondary infection in the chronic dermatoses , such as chronic otitis externa or stasis dermatitis , it should be borne in mind that the skin in these conditions is more liable than is normal skin to become sensitized to many substances , including neomycin .
The manifestation of sensitization to neomycin is usually a low - grade reddening with swelling , dry scaling and itching ; it may be manifested simply as a failure to heal .
Periodic examination for such signs is advisable , and the patient should be told to discontinue the product if they are observed .
These symptoms regress quickly on withdrawing the medication .
Neomycin - containing applications should be avoided for the patient thereafter .
Contains potassium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS : General As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If the infection is not improved after 1 week , cultures and susceptibility tests should be repeated to verify the identity of the organism and to determine whether therapy should be changed .
Treatment should not be continued for longer than 10 days .
Allergic cross - reactions may occur which could prevent the use of any or all of the following antibiotics for the treatment of future infections : kanamycin , paromomycin , streptomycin , and possibly , gentamicin .
Information for Patients : Avoid contaminating bottle tip with material from the ear , fingers or other source .
This caution is necessary if the sterility of the drops is to be preserved .
If sensitization or irritation occurs , discontinue use immediately and contact your physician .
Do not use in the eyes .
Laboratory Tests : Systemic effects of excessive levels of hydrocortisone may include a reduction in the number of circulating eosinophils and a decrease in urinary excretion of 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals ( rats , rabbits , mice ) showed no evidence of carcinogenicity attributable to oral administration of corticosteroids .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when applied topically at concentrations of 0 . 5 % on days 6 to 18 of gestation and in mice when applied topically at a concentration of 15 % on days 10 to 13 of gestation .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Hydrocortisone appears in human milk following oral administration of the drug .
Since systemic absorption of hydrocortisone may occur when applied topically , caution should be exercised when neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone otic solution is used by a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone otic solution in otitis externa have been established in the pediatric age group 2 years to 16 years of age .
There is inadequate data to establish safety and effectiveness in otitis externa for pediatric patients under 2 years of age . 1 Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and hydrocortisone otic solution did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Neomycin occasionally causes skin sensitization .
Ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have also been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Adverse reactions have occurred with topical use of antibiotic combinations including neomycin and polymyxin B . Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
The reaction occurring most often is allergic sensitization .
In one clinical study , using a 20 % neomycin patch , neomycin - induced allergic skin reactions occurred in two of 2 , 175 ( 0 . 09 % ) individuals in the general population . 2 In another study , the incidence was found to be approximately 1 % . 3 The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , especially under occlusive dressings : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Stinging and burning have been reported when this product has gained access to the middle ear .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Therapy with this product should be limited to 10 consecutive days .
The external auditory canal should be thoroughly cleansed and dried with a sterile cotton applicator .
For adults , four drops of the solution should be instilled into the affected ear 3 or 4 times daily .
For infants and children , three drops are suggested because of the smaller capacity of the ear canal .
The patient should lie with the affected ear upward and then the drops should be instilled .
This position should be maintained for 5 minutes to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal .
Repeat , if necessary , for the opposite ear .
If preferred , a cotton wick may be inserted into the canal and then the cotton may be saturated with the solution .
This wick should be kept moist by adding further solution every 4 hours .
The wick should be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED : Product : 50090 - 0433 NDC : 50090 - 0433 - 0 10 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON REFERENCES : • 1 .
Jones RN , Milazzo J , Seidlin M . Ofloxacin Otic Solution for Treatment of Otitis Externa in Children and Adults .
Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg .
1997 ; 123 : 1193 - 1200 .
• 2 .
Leyden JJ , Kligman AM .
Contact dermatitis to neomycin sulfate .
JAMA .
1979 ; 242 : 1276 - 1278 .
• 3 .
Prystowsky SD , Allen AM , Smith RW , Nonomura JH , Odum RB , Akers WA .
Allergic contact hypersensitivity to nickel , neomycin , ethylenediamine , and benzocaine : relationships between age , sex , history of exposure , and reactivity to standard patch tests and use tests in a general population .
Arch Dermatol .
1979 ; 115 : 959 - 962 .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA © 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : August 2020 9072106 ( Folded ) 9072206 ( Flat ) Prod .
No . 10009 Neomycin Sulfate , Polymyxin B Sulfate , Hydrocortisone [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
