Active Ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • for the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) .
• for effective relief of itching , scaling , cracking , burning , redness , soreness , irritation , discomfort , and chafing associated with jock itch .
Warnings Do not use on children under two years old unless directed by a doctor .
For external use only .
When using this product • do not get into eyes For the treatment of athlete ' s foot and ringworm , if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within four weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
For the treatment of jock itch , if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within two weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
Supervise children in the use of this product .
For athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
For athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for four weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for two weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other Information • protect from freezing • avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredients Water , mineral oil propylene glycol , sorbitane stearate , cetyl alcohol , isopropyl palmitate , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , sodium lactate , polysorbate 60 , dimethicone , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , decylene glycol , xanthan gum , retinyl palmitate , tocopheryl acetate , cetyl hydroxyethylcellulose , methylparaben , propylparaben , diazolidinyl urea Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 962 - 9888 Image of Antifungal Cream 4 oz Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
