MULTIVITAMIN WITH FLUORIDE Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safeand effective , and this labeling has not been approved by FDA .
Prescribing Information Each Fluoride Chewable Tablet Contains : Supplement Facts Dosage Size 1 Chewable Tablet Amount per Tablet % DV Adults and Children 4 years or More Vitamin A ( as Vitamin A acetate ) 2500 IU 50 % Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 60 mg 100 % Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 400 IU 100 % Vitamin E ( dl - alpha tocopherol acetate ) 15 IU 50 % Thiamine ( as thiamine ) 1 . 05 mg 70 % Riboflavin ( as riboflavin ) 1 . 2 mg 71 % Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 13 . 5 mg 68 % Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine HCl ) 1 . 05 mg 53 % Folate ( as folic acid ) 300 mcg 75 % Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 4 . 5 mcg 75 % Fluoride ( as sodium fluoride ) 0 . 25 mg * * Daily value ( DV ) not established Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mg Chewable Tabletsactive ingredient for caries prophylaxis : Fluoride as sodium fluoride Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mg Chewable Tabletsprovide sodium fluoride and ten essential vitamins in a chewable tablet .
Other ingredients : citric acid , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , orange flavor , sucralose , talc , xylitol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY It is well established that fluoridation of the water supply ( 1 ppm fluoride ) during the period of tooth development leads to a significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries .
Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mg Chewable Tabletsprovide sodium fluoride and ten essential vitamins in a chewable tablet .
Because the tablets are chewable , they provide a topical as well as systemic source of fluoride .
Hydroxyapatite is the principal crystal for all calcified tissue in the human body .
The fluoride ion reacts with the hydroxyapatite in the tooth as it is formed to produce the more caries - resistant crystal , fluorapatite .
The reaction may be expressed by the equation : Ca10 ( PO4 ) 6 ( OH ) 2 + 2 F - ------- Ca10 ( PO4 ) 6F2 + 2 OH - ( Hydroxyapatite ) ( Fluorapatite ) Three stages of fluoride deposition in tooth enamel can be distinguished : 1 .
Small amounts ( reflecting the low levels of fluoride in tissue fluids ) are incorporated into the enamel crystals while they are being formed .
2 .
After enamel has been laid down , fluoride deposition continues in the surface enamel .
Diffusion of fluoride from the surface inward is apparently restricted .
3 .
After eruption , the surface enamel acquires fluoride from the water , food , supplementary fluoride and smaller amounts from saliva .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins .
Supplementation of the diet with fluoride for caries prophylaxis .
Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mg Chewable Tablets provide 0 . 25 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 4 - 6 years of age in areas where the drinking water contains 0 . 3 through 0 . 6 ppm of fluoride .
Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mg Chewable Tabletssupply significant amounts of Vitamins A , C , D , E , thiamine , riboflavin , niacin , vitamin B6 , vitamin B12 , and folate to supplement the diet , and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop .
Thus , in a single easy - to - use preparation , children obtain ten essential vitamins and the important mineral , fluoride .
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16 , in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride , receive daily fluoride supplements .
Children using Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mgChewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations .
The regular brushing of teeth and attention to good oral hygiene practices are also essential .
Multivitamin with Fluoride Chewable Tablets is a prescription product for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes of caries prophylaxis and provides supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins .
WARNING Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of accidentaloverdose , seek professional assistance or contact aPoison Control Center immediately .
CAUTION Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration .
Should be chewed .
This product , as all chewable tablets , is not recommended for children under age 4 due to risk of choking .
PRECAUTION The suggested dose of Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mgChewable Tablets should not be exceeded , since dental fluorosis may result from continued ingestion of large amounts of fluoride .
Before prescribing Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 25 mgChewable Tablets : 1 .
Determine the fluoride content of the drinking water from all major sources .
2 .
Make sure the child is not receiving significant amounts of fluoride from other sources such as medications and swallowed toothpaste .
3 .
Periodically check to make sure that the child does not develop significant dental fluorosis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily , to be dissolved in the mouth or chewed before swallowing .
Do not give a chewable tablet to a child younger than 4 years old .
HOW SUPPLIED Multivitamin Chewable tablets containing 0 . 25 mg fluoride are round yellowish / cream tablets with orange and yellow speckles .
Debossed with “ M163 ” on one side .
NDC : 63629 - 1134 - 1 ( 100 count ) STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container with a child - resistant closure as defined in the USP / NF .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
Manufactured For : Method Pharmaceuticals Fort Worth , TX 76118 Rev . 06 / 2019 Multivitamin / Fluoride Tablet Chewable # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
