DESCRIPTION Isosorbide mononitrate ( diluted ) , USP , an organic nitrate , is a vasodilator with effects on both arteries and veins .
The molecular formula is C 6 H 9 NO 6 and the molecular weight is 191 . 14 .
The chemical name for isosorbide mononitrate is 1 , 4 : 3 , 6 - Dianhydro - D - glucitol 5 - nitrate and the compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Isosorbide mononitrate tablets , USP , for oral administration , contain 10 mg or 20 mg of isosorbide mononitrate ( diluted ) , USP .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : calcium stearate , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , FD & C Blue # 1 HT Aluminum Lake , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Isosorbide mononitrate is the major active metabolite of isosorbide dinitrate ( ISDN ) , and most of the clinical activity of the dinitrate is attributable to the mononitrate .
The principal pharmacological action of isosorbide mononitrate is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Pharmacodynamics Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the antianginal efficacy of continuously - delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their antianginal efficacy been restored .
The drug - free interval sufficient to avoid tolerance to isosorbide mononitrate has not been completely defined .
In the only regimen of twice - daily isosorbide mononitrate that has been shown to avoid development of tolerance , the two doses of isosorbide mononitrate tablets are given 7 hours apart , so there is a gap of 17 hours between the second dose of each day and the first dose of the next day .
Taking account of the relatively long half - life of isosorbide mononitrate this result is consistent with those obtained for other organic nitrates .
The asymmetric twice - daily regimen of isosorbide mononitrate tablets successfully avoided significant rebound / withdrawal effects .
The incidence and magnitude of such phenomena have appeared , in studies of other nitrates , to be highly dependent upon the schedule of nitrate administration .
Pharmacokinetics Isosorbide mononitrate is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
In humans , isosorbide mononitrate is not subject to first pass metabolism in the liver .
The absolute bioavailability of isosorbide mononitrate from isosorbide mononitrate tablets is nearly 100 % .
Peak plasma concentrations usually occur in about 30 to 60 minutes .
Isosorbide mononitrate exhibits dose proportionality over the recommended dose range .
Food does not significantly affect the absorption or bioavailability of isosorbide mononitrate .
Metoprolol coadministration did not change the pharmacokinetics of isosorbide mononitrate .
The volume of distribution is approximately 0 . 6 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of isosorbide mononitrate was found to be less than 5 % .
When radiolabelled isosorbide mononitrate was administered to humans in order to elucidate the metabolic fate , about half of the dose was found denitrated and renally excreted as isosorbide and sorbitol .
One quarter of the dose was accounted for as conjugates of the parent drug in the urine .
None of these metabolites is vasoactive .
Only 2 % of the dose was excreted as unchanged drug .
The overall elimination half - life of isosorbide mononitrate is about 5 hours .
The rate of clearance is the same in healthy young adults , in patients with various degrees of renal , hepatic or cardiac dysfunction and in the elderly .
When radiolabelled , isosorbide mononitrate was administered to humans , 93 % of the dose was excreted within 48 hours into the urine .
Renal excretion was virtually complete after 5 days ; fecal excretion amounted to only 1 % of the dose .
Isosorbide mononitrate has no known effect on renal and hepatic function .
In patients with varying degrees of renal failure , dosage adjustment does not appear necessary .
In patients with liver cirrhosis , the pharmacokinetic parameters after a single dose of isosorbide mononitrate were similar to the values found in healthy volunteers .
Isosorbide mononitrate is significantly removed from the blood during hemodialysis ; however , an additional dose to compensate for drug lost is not necessary .
In patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis , blood levels are similar to patients not on dialysis .
Clinical Trials The acute and chronic antianginal efficacy of isosorbide mononitrate has been confirmed in clinical trials .
The clinical efficacy of isosorbide mononitrate was studied in 21 stable angina pectoris patients .
After single dose administration of isosorbide mononitrate , 20 mg , the exercise capacity was increased by 42 . 7 % after one hour , 29 . 6 % after 6 hours , and by 25 % after eight hours when compared to placebo .
Controlled trials of single doses of isosorbide mononitrate tablets have demonstrated that antianginal activity is present about 1 hour after dosing , with peak effect seen from 1 to 4 hours after dosing .
In one multicenter placebo - controlled trial , isosorbide mononitrate was found to be safe and effective during acute and chronic ( 3 weeks ) treatment of angina pectoris .
Two hundred fourteen ( 214 ) patients were enrolled in the trial ; 54 patients were randomized to receive placebo and 106 patients were randomized to receive 10 or 20 mg of isosorbide mononitrate twice daily seven hours apart .
The largest effect of isosorbide mononitrate , compared to placebo , was on day one — dose one .
Although 14 hours after the first dose of day 14 , the increase in exercise tolerance due to isosorbide mononitrate was statistically significant , the increase was about half of that seen 2 hours after the first dose of day one .
On day 21 , two hours after the first dose the effect of isosorbide mononitrate was 60 to 70 % of that seen on day one .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide mononitrate tablets , USP are indicated for the prevention and treatment of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of oral isosorbide mononitrate is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Isosorbide mononitrate is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
Do not use isosorbide mononitrate in patients who are taking certain drugs for erectile dysfunction ( phosphodiesterase inhibitors ) , such as sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil .
Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension , syncope , or myocardial ischemia .
Do not use isosorbide mononitrate in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of isosorbide mononitrate by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of isosorbide mononitrate in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
Because the effects of isosorbide mononitrate are difficult to terminate rapidly , this drug is not recommended in these settings .
If isosorbide mononitrate is used in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
PRECAUTIONS General Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of isosorbide mononitrate .
This drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume depleted or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by isosorbide mononitrate may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of oral isosorbide mononitrate is not known .
Information for Patients Patients should be told that the antianginal efficacy of isosorbide mononitrate tablets can be maintained by carefully following the prescribed schedule of dosing ( two doses taken seven hours apart ) .
For most patients , this can be accomplished by taking the first dose on awakening and the second dose 7 hours later .
As with other nitrates , daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with isosorbide mononitrate .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches are a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with isosorbide mononitrate , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of antianginal efficacy .
Aspirin and / or acetaminophen , on the other hand , often successfully relieve isosorbide mononitrate - induced headaches with no deleterious effect on isosorbide mononitrate ’ s antianginal efficacy .
Treatment with isosorbide mononitrate may be associated with light - headedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Drug Interactions Concomitant use of isosorbide mononitrate with phosphodiesterase inhibitors in any form is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Concomitant use of isosorbide mononitrate with riociguat , a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator , is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
The vasodilating effects of isosorbide mononitrate may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination .
Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in rats exposed to isosorbide mononitrate in their diets at doses of up to 900 mg / kg / day for the first six months and 500 mg / kg / day for the remaining duration of a study in which males were dosed for up to 121 weeks and females were dosed for up to 137 weeks .
No evidence of mutagenicity was seen in vitro in the Salmonella test ( Ames test ) , in human peripheral lymphocytes , in Chinese hamster cells ( V79 ) or , in vivo in the rat micronucleus test .
In a study on the fertility and breeding capacity of two generations of rats , isosorbide mononitrate had no adverse effects on fertility or general reproductive performance with oral doses up to 120 mg / kg / day .
A dose of 360 mg / kg / day was associated with increased mortality in treated males and females and a reduced fertility index .
( See table at end of Pregnancy section for animal - to - human dosage comparisons . )
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies performed in rats and rabbits at doses of up to 540 and 810 mg / kg / day , respectively , have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to isosorbide mononitrate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , isosorbide mononitrate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Birth weights , neonatal survival and development , and incidence of stillbirths were adversely affected when pregnant rats were administered oral doses of 540 ( but not 270 ) mg isosorbide mononitrate / kg / day during late gestation and lactation .
This dose was associated with decreased maternal body weight gain and decreased maternal motor activity .
Species Daily Dose ( mg / kg ) Multiple of MRHD * Based on : Body Weight Body Surface Rabbit 810 1013 375 Rat 900 1125 195 540 675 117 500 625 108 360 450 78 270 338 59 Calculations assume a human weight of 50 kg and human body surface area of 1 . 46 m 2 , a rabbit weight of 2 kg and rabbit body surface area of 0 . 163 m 2 , and a rat weight of 150 g and rat body surface area of 0 . 025 m 2 .
* Maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) is 20 mg bid ( twice - a - day ) Nursing Mothers It is not known whether isosorbide mononitrate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when isosorbide mononitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of isosorbide mononitrate in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of isosorbide mononitrate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headache is the most frequent side effect and was the cause of 2 % of all dropouts from controlled - clinical trials .
Headache decreased in incidence after the first few days of therapy .
The following table shows the frequency of adverse reactions observed in 1 % or more of subjects in 6 placebo - controlled trials , conducted in the United States and abroad .
The same table shows the frequency of withdrawal for these adverse reactions .
In many cases the adverse reactions were of uncertain relation to drug treatment .
Frequency of Adverse Reactions ( Discontinuations ) * 6 Placebo - Controlled Studies Dose Placebo 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg Patients 160 54 52 159 Headache 6 % ( 0 % ) 17 % ( 0 % ) 13 % ( 0 % ) 35 % ( 5 % ) Fatigue 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 4 % ( 0 % ) 1 % ( 0 % ) Upper Respiratory Infection < 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 4 % ( 0 % ) 1 % ( 0 % ) Pain < 1 % ( 0 % ) 4 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) < 1 % ( 0 % ) Dizziness 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 4 % ( 0 % ) Nausea < 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 3 % ( 2 % ) Increased Cough < 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) < 1 % ( 0 % ) Rash 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 2 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) < 1 % ( 0 % ) Abdominal Pain < 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Allergic Reaction 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Cardiovascular Disorder 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Chest Pain < 1 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) < 1 % ( 0 % ) Diarrhea 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Flushing 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Emotional Lability 0 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) Pruritus 1 % ( 0 % ) 2 % ( 2 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) 0 % ( 0 % ) * Some individuals discontinued for multiple reasons .
Other adverse reactions , each reported by fewer than 1 % of exposed patients , and in many cases of uncertain relation to drug treatment , were : Cardiovascular : acute myocardial infarction , apoplexy , arrhythmias , bradycardia , edema , hypertension , hypotension , pallor , palpitations , tachycardia .
Dermatologic : sweating .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , dry mouth , dyspepsia , thirst , vomiting , decreased weight .
Genitourinary : prostatic disorder .
Miscellaneous : amblyopia , back pain , bitter taste , muscle cramps , neck pain , paresthesia , susurrus aurium .
Neurologic : anxiety , impaired concentration , depression , insomnia , nervousness , nightmares , restlessness , tremor , vertigo .
Respiratory : asthma , dyspnea , sinusitis .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients ; for further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment see under OVERDOSAGE .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects The ill effects of isosorbide mononitrate overdose are generally the results of isosorbide mononitrate ’ s capacity to induce vasodilatation , venous pooling , reduced cardiac output , and hypotension .
These hemodynamic changes may have protean manifestations , including increased intracranial pressure , with any or all of persistent throbbing headache , confusion , and moderate fever ; vertigo ; palpitations ; visual disturbances ; nausea and vomiting ( possibly with colic and even bloody diarrhea ) ; syncope ( especially in the upright posture ) ; air hunger and dyspnea , later followed by reduced ventilatory effort ; diaphoresis , with the skin either flushed or cold and clammy ; heart block and bradycardia ; paralysis ; coma ; seizures and death .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of isosorbide mononitrate and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of isosorbide mononitrate overdose .
There are no data suggesting what dose of isosorbide mononitrate is likely to be life - threatening in humans .
In rats and mice , there is significant lethality at oral doses of 1965 mg / kg and 2581 mg / kg , respectively .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of isosorbide mononitrate .
Isosorbide mononitrate is significantly removed from the blood during hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of isosorbide mononitrate is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of isosorbide mononitrate overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with isosorbide mononitrate overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward an increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ’ s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of isosorbide mononitrate overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia Methemoglobinemia has been reported in patients receiving other organic nitrates , and it probably could also occur as a side effect of isosorbide mononitrate .
Certainly nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of isosorbide mononitrate can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b 5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moiety of isosorbide mononitrate is quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 2 mg / kg of isosorbide mononitrate should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( greater than or equal to 10 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of isosorbide mononitrate .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr ( equivalent , in total administered dose of nitrate ions , to 7 . 8 to 11 . 1 mg of isosorbide mononitrate per hour ) , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial pO 2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
When methemoglobinemia is diagnosed , the treatment of choice is methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg intravenously .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended regimen of isosorbide mononitrate tablets is 20 mg twice daily , with the doses seven hours apart .
A starting dose of 5 mg ( ½ tablet of the 10 mg dosing strength ) might be appropriate for persons of particularly small stature but should be increased to at least 10 mg by the second or third day of therapy .
Dosage adjustments are not necessary for elderly patients or patients with altered hepatic or renal function .
As noted above ( CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) , multiple studies of organic nitrates have shown that maintenance of continuous 24 - hour plasma levels results in refractory tolerance .
The asymmetric ( 2 doses , 7 hours apart ) dosing regimen for isosorbide mononitrate tablets provides a daily nitrate - free interval to minimize the development of tolerance .
As also noted under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , well - controlled studies have shown that tolerance to isosorbide mononitrate tablets occurs to some extent when using the twice - daily regimen in which the two doses are given seven hours apart .
This regimen has been shown to have antianginal efficacy beginning one hour after the first dose and lasting at least seven hours after the second dose .
The duration ( if any ) of antianginal activity beyond fourteen hours has not been studied .
In clinical trials , isosorbide mononitrate has been administered in a variety of regimens and doses .
Doses above 20 mg twice - a - day ( with the doses seven hours apart ) have not been adequately studied .
Doses of 5 mg twice - a - day are clearly effective ( effectiveness based on exercise tolerance ) for only the first day of a twice - a - day ( with doses 7 hours apart ) regimen .
Isosorbide mononitrate tablets , USP are available as follows : 20 mg — Each blue , round , tablet imprinted with and 620 on one side and scored on the other side , contains 20 mg of isosorbide mononitrate ( diluted ) , USP .
Tablets are supplied in NDC : 70518 - 3081 - 00 PACKAGING : 90 in 1 BOTTLE , PLASTIC Dispense in tight containers as defined in the USP .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º to 30ºC ( 59º to 86ºF ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Isosorbide Mononitrate GENERIC : Isosorbide Mononitrate DOSAGE : TABLET ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 3081 - 0 COLOR : blue SHAPE : ROUND SCORE : Two even pieces SIZE : 9 mm IMPRINT : R ; 620 PACKAGING : 90 in 1 BOTTLE , PLASTIC ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE 20 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CALCIUM STEARATE • SILICON DIOXIDE • STARCH , CORN • FD & C BLUE NO . 1 ALUMINUM LAKE • LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE • MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE • TALC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
