DESCRIPTION Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is a sterile antimicrobial solution for topical ophthalmic use .
It has pH of 4 . 0 to 6 . 2 and osmolality of 270 to 310 mOsm / kg .
Chemical Names : Trimethoprim sulfate , 2 , 4 - diamino - 5 - ( 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxybenzyl ) pyrimidine sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , is a white , odorless , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 678 . 72 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per mg , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formula are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains : Actives : polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units / mL ; trimethoprim sulfate equivalent to trimethoprim 1 mg / mL .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 04 mg / mL .
Inactives : sodium chloride ; sulfuric acid ; and purified water .
May also contain sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Trimethoprim is a synthetic antibacterial drug active against a wide variety of aerobic gram - positive and gram - negative ophthalmic pathogens .
Trimethoprim blocks the production of tetrahydrofolic acid from dihydrofolic acid by binding to and reversibly inhibiting the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase .
This binding is stronger for the bacterial enzyme than for the corresponding mammalian enzyme and therefore selectively interferes with bacterial biosynthesis of nucleic acids and proteins .
Polymyxin B , a cyclic lipopeptide antibiotic , is bactericidal for a variety of gram - negative organisms , especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
It increases the permeability of the bacterial cell membrane by interacting with the phospholipid components of the membrane .
Blood samples were obtained from 11 human volunteers at 20 minutes , 1 hour and 3 hours following instillation in the eye of 2 drops of ophthalmic solution containing 1 mg trimethoprim and 10 , 000 units polymyxin B per mL .
Peak serum concentrations were approximately 0 . 03 mcg / mL trimethoprim and 1 unit / mL polymyxin B . Microbiology : In vitro studies have demonstrated that the anti - infective components of Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution are active against the following bacterial pathogens that are capable of causing external infections of the eye : Trimethoprim : Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus faecalis , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus aegyptius , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis ( indole - negative ) , Proteus vulgaris ( indolepositive ) , Enterobacter aerogenes and Serratia marcescens .
Polymyxin B : Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes and Haemophilus influenzae .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is indicated in the treatment of surface ocular bacterial infections , including acute bacterial conjunctivitis , and blepharoconjunctivitis , caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus viridans , Haemophilus influenzae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
* * Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
If a sensitivity reaction to Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution occurs , discontinue use .
Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is not indicated for the prophylaxis or treatment of ophthalmia neonatorum .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antimicrobial preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Information for Patients Avoid contaminating the applicator tip with material from the eye , fingers , or other source .
This precaution is necessary if the sterility of the drops is to be maintained .
If redness , irritation , swelling or pain persists or increases , discontinue use immediately and contact your physician .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of ocular bacterial infections .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate or trimethoprim .
Mutagenesis : Trimethoprim was demonstrated to be non - mutagenic in the Ames assay .
In studies at two laboratories no chromosomal damage was detected in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells at concentrations approximately 500 times human plasma levels after oral administration ; at concentrations approximately 1 , 000 times human plasma levels after oral administration in these same cells , a low level of chromosomal damage was induced at one of the laboratories .
Studies to evaluate mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate .
Impairment of Fertility : Polymyxin B sulfate has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
No adverse effects on fertility or general reproductive performance were observed in rats given trimethoprim in oral dosages as high as 70 mg / kg / day for males and 14 mg / kg / day for females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate .
It is not known whether polymyxin B sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Trimethoprim has been shown to be teratogenic in the rat when given in oral doses 40 times the human dose .
In some rabbit studies , the overall increase in fetal loss ( dead and resorbed and malformed conceptuses ) was associated with oral doses 6 times the human therapeutic dose .
While there are no large well - controlled studies on the use of trimethoprim in pregnant women , Brumfitt and Pursell , in a retrospective study , reported the outcome of 186 pregnancies during which the mother received either placebo or oral trimethoprim in combination with sulfamethoxazole .
The incidence of congenital abnormalities was 4 . 5 % ( 3 of 66 ) in those who received placebo and 3 . 3 % ( 4 of 120 ) in those receiving trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole .
There were no abnormalities in the 10 children whose mothers received the drug during the first trimester .
In a separate survey , Brumfitt and Pursell also found no congenital abnormalities in 35 children whose mothers had received oral trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole at the time of conception or shortly thereafter .
Because trimethoprim may interfere with folic acid metabolism , trimethoprim should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects The oral administration of trimethoprim to rats at a dose of 70 mg / kg / day commencing with the last third of gestation and continuing through parturition and lactation caused no deleterious effects on gestation or pup growth and survival .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 2 months have not been established [ see Warnings ] .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reaction to Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution is local irritation consisting of increased redness , burning , stinging , and / or itching .
This may occur on instillation , within 48 hours , or at any time with extended use .
There are also multiple reports of hypersensitivity reactions consisting of lid edema , itching , increased redness , tearing , and / or circumocular rash .
Photosensitivity has been reported in patients taking oral trimethoprim .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate infections , instill one drop in the affected eye ( s ) every three hours ( maximum of 6 doses per day ) for a period of 7 to 10 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Polymyxin B Sulfate and Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution , USP is a sterile solution .
Each mL contains trimethoprim sulfate equivalent to 1 mg trimethoprim and polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units in a plastic dropper bottle of 10 mL NDC 68788 - 6927 - 1 Storage : Store at 15 째 to 25 째 C ( 59 째 to 77 째 F ) and protect from light .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Revised : August 2021 300049866 - 0821 Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68788 - 6927 - 1 Polymyxin B Sulfateand Trimethoprim Ophthalmic Solution , USP Rx Only STERILE 10 mL SANDOZ Relabeled By : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
