DESCRIPTIONThe active ingredient in ondansetron hydrochloride tablets is ondansetron hydrochloride ( HCl ) USP as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C18H19N3O • HCl • 2H2O , representing a molecular weight of 365 . 9 .
Ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline .
The active ingredient in ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets USP is ondansetron base , the racemic form of ondansetron , and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula is C18H19N3O representing a molecular weight of 293 . 4 .
Each 4 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
The dimensions for 4 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets are 10 . 10 x 5 . 60 mm .
Each 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
The dimensions for 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets are 10 . 10 x 5 . 60 mm .
Each 24 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 24 mg of ondansetron .
The dimensions for 24 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets are 14 . 10 x 7 . 60 mm .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , iron oxide yellow ( 8 mg tablet only ) , iron oxide red ( 24 mg tablet only ) , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Each 4 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet USP for oral administration contains 4 mg ondansetron base .
Each 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet USP for oral administration contains 8 mg ondansetron base .
Each ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet USP also contains the inactive ingredients aspartame , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , mannitol , sodium stearyl fumarate and strawberry flavor .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets USP are orally administered formulation of ondansetron which rapidly disintegrates on the tongue and does not require water to aid dissolution or swallowing .
This product disintegrates in approximately 60 seconds .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYPharmacodynamics : Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ' s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT3 receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
In animals , the emetic response to cisplatin can be prevented by pretreatment with an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis , bilateral abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnic nerve section , or pretreatment with a serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
In normal volunteers , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in normal volunteers .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
Pharmacokinetics : Ondansetron is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 - mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
AUC from a 16 - mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 - mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food but unaffected by antacids .
Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , reduction in AUC , Cmax , and T ½ of ondansetron was observed . 1 This resulted in a significant increase in clearance .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug interactions ) .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of ondansetron ' s absorption is greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron levels .
These higher plasma levels may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these gender - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 1 and 2 taken from 2 studies .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 8 - mg Ondansetron Hydrochloride Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) Systemic Plasma Clearance L / h / kg Absolute Bioavailability 18 - 40 M F 69 . 0 62 . 7 6 5 26 . 2 42 . 7 2 . 0 1 . 7 3 . 1 3 . 5 0 . 403 0 . 354 0 . 483 0 . 663 61 - 74 M F 77 . 5 60 . 2 6 6 24 . 1 52 . 4 2 . 1 1 . 9 4 . 1 4 . 9 0 . 384 0 . 255 0 . 585 0 . 643 ≥ 75 M F 78 . 0 67 . 6 5 6 37 . 0 46 . 1 2 . 2 2 . 1 4 . 5 6 . 2 0 . 277 0 . 249 0 . 619 0 . 747 Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 24 - mg Ondansetron Hydrochloride Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) 18 - 43 M F 84 . 1 71 . 8 8 8 125 . 8 194 . 4 1 . 9 1 . 6 4 . 7 5 . 8 A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life are seen in patients over 75 years of age .
In clinical trials with cancer patients , safety and efficacy was similar in patients over 65 years of age and those under 65 years of age ; there was an insufficient number of patients over 75 years of age to permit conclusions in that age - group .
No dosage adjustment is recommended in the elderly .
In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared to 5 . 7 hours in normals .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
Due to the very small contribution ( 5 % ) of renal clearance to the overall clearance , renal impairment was not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron .
However , ondansetron oral mean plasma clearance was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less 30 mL / min ) .
This reduction in clearance is variable and was not consistent with an increase in half - life .
No reduction in dose or dosing frequency in these patients is warranted .
Plasma protein binding of ondansetron as measured in vitro was 70 % to 76 % over the concentration range of 10 to 500 ng / mL .
Circulating drug also distributes into erythrocytes .
Four - and 8 - mg doses of ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are bioequivalent to corresponding doses of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets and may be used interchangeably .
One 24 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet is bioequivalent to and interchangeable with three 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
• Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , ondansetron hydrochloride tablets and ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONSOndansetron hydrochloride tablets and ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGSHypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralOndansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Information for patientsPhenylketonurics : Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 4 mg and 8 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1 . 5 mg and 3 mg of phenylalanine , respectively .
Patients should be instructed not to remove ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The tablet should not be pushed through the foil .
With dry hands , the blister backing should be peeled completely off the blister .
The tablet should be gently removed and immediately placed on the tongue to dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
Peelable illustrated stickers are affixed to the product carton that can be provided with the prescription to ensure proper use and handling of the product .
Drug interactionsOndansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmaceokinetica : ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Phenytoin , Carbamazepine , and Rifampicin : In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs . 1 , 3 Tramadol : Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol . 4 , 5 Chemotherapy : Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover study in 76 pediatric patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
Use in Surgical Patients : The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertilityCarcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
PregnancyTeratogenic effectsPregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothersOndansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric useLittle information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONsections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Geriatric useOf the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLGY .
ADVERSE REACTIONSThe following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron , the active ingredient of ondansetron hydrochloride .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron hydrochloride has been unclear in many cases .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose 50 mg / m2 ) .
Table 5 .
Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : Single Day Therapy With 24 - mg Ondansetron Hydrochloride Tablets ( Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 24 mg q . d . n = 300 Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 124 Ondansetron 32 mg q . d . n = 117 Headache 33 ( 11 % ) 16 ( 13 % ) 17 ( 15 % ) Diarrhea 13 ( 4 % ) 9 ( 7 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) The adverse events in Table 6 have been reported in 5 % of adults receiving either 8 mg of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets 2 or 3 times a day for 3 days or placebo in 4 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent moderately emetogenic chemotherapy , primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens .
Table 6 .
Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : 3 Days of Therapy With 8 - mg Ondansetron Hydrochloride Tablets ( Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 242 Ondansetron 8 mg t . i . d . n = 415 Placebo n = 262 Headache 58 ( 24 % ) 113 ( 27 % ) 34 ( 13 % ) Malaise / fatigue 32 ( 13 % ) 37 ( 9 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) Constipation 22 ( 9 % ) 26 ( 6 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Diarrhea 15 ( 6 % ) 16 ( 4 % ) 10 ( 4 % ) Dizziness 13 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) 12 ( 5 % ) Central Nervous System : There have been rare reports consistent with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving ondansetron .
Hepatic : In 723 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials , AST and / or ALT values have been reported to exceed twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of patients receiving ondansetron hydrochloride tablets .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes cannot be clearly determined .
There have been reports of liver failure and death in patients with cancer receiving concurrent medications including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Integumentary : Rash has occurred in approximately 1 % of patients receiving ondansetron .
Other : Rare cases of anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina ( chest pain ) , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures have been reported .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron hydrochloride was unclear .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events reported in patients receiving ondansetron hydrochloride tablets and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron hydrochloride tablets and concurrent chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events in Table 7 have been reported in 5 % of patients receiving ondansetron hydrochloride tablets at a dosage of 16 mg orally in clinical trials .
With the exception of headache , rates of these events were not significantly different in the ondansetron and placebo groups .
These patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications .
Table 7 .
Frequency of Adverse Events From Controlled Studies With Ondansetron Hydrochloride Tablets ( Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting ) Adverse Event Ondansetron 16 mg ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 531 ) Wound problem 152 ( 28 % ) 162 ( 31 % ) Drowsiness / sedation 112 ( 20 % ) 122 ( 23 % ) Headache 49 ( 9 % ) 27 ( 5 % ) Hypoxia 49 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 7 % ) Pyrexia 45 ( 8 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Dizziness 36 ( 7 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Gynecological disorder 36 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 6 % ) Anxiety / agitation 33 ( 6 % ) 29 ( 5 % ) Bradycardia 32 ( 6 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Shiver ( s ) 28 ( 5 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Urinary retention 28 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 3 % ) Hypotension 27 ( 5 % ) 32 ( 6 % ) Pruritus 27 ( 5 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) Preliminary observations in a small number of subjects suggest a higher incidence of headache when ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are taken with water , when compared to without water .
Observed During Clinical Practice : In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during post - approval use of oral formulations of ondansetron hydrochloride .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to ondansetron hydrochloride .
Cardiovascular : Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
General : Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
Hepatobiliary : Liver enzyme abnormalities Lower Respiratory : Hiccups Neurology : Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions Skin : Urticaria Special Senses : Eye Disorders : Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours OVERDOSAGEThere is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONInstructions for Use / Handling ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets : Do not attempt to push ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets through the foil backing .
With dry hands , PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet .
IMMEDIATELY place the ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet on top of the tongue where it will dissolve in seconds , then swallow with saliva .
Administration with liquid is not necessary .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron hydrochloride is 24 mg given as three 8 - mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
One 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Pediatric Use : For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is one 4 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 4 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
One 4 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 4 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen : The recommended oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given 3 times a day .
For total body irradiation , one 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablet or one 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets or ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 - mg ondansetron hydrochloride tablets or two 8 - mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron hydrochloride tablets or ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Renal Function : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function : In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
HOW SUPPLIEDOndansetron hydrochloride tablets , 4 mg ( ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) , are white , oval , standard convex , film - coated tablets with ‘ 4 ’ on one side and ‘ G1 ’ logo on the other side in : Bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 68462 - 105 - 30 ) .
Carton containing 1 card with 3 unit of use blisters ( NDC 68462 - 105 - 33 ) .
Ondansetron hydrochloride tablets , 8 mg ( ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) , are yellow , oval , standard convex , film - coated tablets with ‘ 8 ’ on one side and ‘ G1 ’ logo on the other side in : Bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 68462 - 106 - 30 ) .
Carton containing 1 card with 3 unit of use blisters ( NDC 68462 - 106 - 33 ) .
Bottles : Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Carton : Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Protect from light .
Store blister in carton .
Ondansetron hydrochloride tablets , 24 mg ( ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 24 mg of ondansetron ) , are pink , oval , standard convex , film - coated tablets with ‘ 24 ’ on one side and ‘ G1 ’ logo on the other side in daily unit dose packs of 1 tablet ( NDC 68462 - 107 - 40 ) .
Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets USP , 4 mg ( as 4 mg ondansetron base ) are white , circular , flat faced , uncoated tablets with ‘ G ’ engraved on one side and ‘ 4 ’ on the other side in unit dose packs of 30 tablets ( NDC 68462 - 157 - 13 ) .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets USP , 8 mg ( as 8 mg ondansetron base ) are white , circular , flat faced , uncoated tablets with ‘ G ’ engraved on one side and ‘ 8 ’ on the other side in unit dose packs of 10 tablets ( NDC 68462 - 158 - 11 ) and 30 tablets ( NDC 68462 - 158 - 13 ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
REFERENCES • Britto MR , Hussey EK , Mydlow P , et al .
Effect of enzyme inducers on ondansetron ( OND ) metabolism in humans .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1997 ; 61 : 228 .
• Pugh RNH , Murray - Lyon IM , Dawson JL , Pietroni MC , Williams R . Transection of the oesophagus for bleeding oesophageal varices .
Brit J Surg .
1973 ; 60 : 646 - 649 .
• Villikka K , Kivisto KT , Neuvonen PJ .
The effect of rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous ondansetron .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1999 ; 65 : 377 - 381 .
• De Witte JL , Schoenmaekers B , Sessler DI , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2001 ; 92 : 1319 - 1321 .
• Arcioni R , della Rocca M , Romanò R , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2002 ; 94 : 1553 - 1557 .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Generics Ltd .
Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403 513 , India Information for patientsPhenylketonurics : Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 4 mg and 8 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1 . 5 mg and 3 mg of phenylalanine , respectively .
Patients should be instructed not to remove ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The tablet should not be pushed through the foil .
With dry hands , the blister backing should be peeled completely off the blister .
The tablet should be gently removed and immediately placed on the tongue to dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
Peelable illustrated stickers are affixed to the product carton that can be provided with the prescription to ensure proper use and handling of the product .
Drug interactionsOndansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Phenytoin , Carbamazepine , and Rifampicin : In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs . 1 , 3 Tramadol : Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol . 4 , 5 Chemotherapy : Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover study in 76 pediatric patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
Use in Surgical Patients : The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertilityCarcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
PregnancyTeratogenic effectsPregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothersOndansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric useLittle information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Geriatric useOf the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .
LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
