claims germ - X Active ingredients Benalkonium chloride ( 0 . 13 % ) Purpose Antiseptic Use to decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings For external use only : hands When using this product • keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
• avoid contact with broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation or redness develops • conditin persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • wipe hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry • for children under 6 , use only under adult supervision • not recommended for infants Inactive ingredients water , polysorbate 20 , glycerin , phenoxyethanol , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , fragrance , methylparaben , tocopheryl acetate , tetrasodium EDTA , disodium cocoamphodiacetate , butylparaben , citric acid , ethylparaben , propylparaben Questions Questions ?
1 - 866 MY GERMX • 1 - 866 - 694 - 3769 disclaimer * Effective at eliminating 99 . 99 % of many common harmful germs and bacteria in as little as 15 seconds .
Side panel opening instructions STEP 1 Peel Off Remove large cap and protective heat seal STEP 2 Pull Through Insert first sheet from center of roll through slits in cover .
Do not push finger through opening STEP 3 Replace cover .
Pull each sheet up and slightly to the side .
Close snap top when not in use .
side panel germ - X HAND SANITIZING WIPES KILLS 99 . 99 % OF GERMS ALCOHOL FREE For Hands - Ultra Soft - Ultra Strong Germ - X Soft Wipes are quilted ultra strong wips for antibacterial cleansing hands .
Germ - X Soft Wipes are clinically tested and moisturize while killing 99 . 99 % of germs in as little as 15 seconds leaving your skin feeling refreshed .
Germ - S Soft Wipes are convenient , easy to carry and can be used anytime , anywhere .
• Home adverse reactions Distributed By : Vi - Jon Inc .
St . Louis , MO 63114 www . germx . com MADE IN USA WITH US & FOREIGN COMPONENTS Moisturizing germ - X HAND SANITIZING WIPES KILLS 99 . 99 % OF GERMS ALCOHOL FREE For Hands - Ultra Soft - Ultra Strong 72 SOFT CLOTHS 5 . 5 in x 7 . 9 in ( 14 cm x 20 cm ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
