Rx only For External Use .
DESCRIPTION Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution and Clindamycin Phosphate Lotion ( Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Suspension USP , 1 % ) contain clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter .
Clindamycin Phosphate Gel contains clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The solution contains isopropyl alcohol 50 % v / v , propylene glycol , and purified water .
The gel contains allantoin , carbomer 974 P , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , and purified water .
The lotion contains cetostearyl alcohol ( 2 . 5 % ) ; glycerin ; glyceryl stearate SE ( with potassium monostearate ) ; isostearyl alcohol ( 2 . 5 % ) ; methylparaben ( 0 . 3 % ) ; sodium lauroyl sarcosinate ; stearic acid ; and purified water .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin .
Following multiple topical applications of clindamycin phosphate at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per mL in an isopropyl alcohol and water solution , very low levels of clindamycin are present in the serum ( 0 to 3 ng / mL ) and less than 0 . 2 % of the dose is recovered in urine as clindamycin .
Clindamycin activity has been demonstrated in comedones from acne patients .
The mean concentration of antibiotic activity in extracted comedones after application of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution for 4 weeks was 597 mcg / g of comedonal material ( range 0 to 1 , 490 ) .
Clindamycin in vitro inhibits all Propionibacterium acnes cultures tested ( MICs 0 . 4 mcg / mL ) .
Free fatty acids on the skin surface have been decreased from approximately 14 % to 2 % following application of clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution , Clindamycin Phosphate Gel , and Clindamycin Phosphate Lotion are indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
In view of the potential for diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis , the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution , Clindamycin Phosphate Gel , and Clindamycin Phosphate Lotion are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin , a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death .
Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis .
Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
When significant diarrhea occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen the condition .
Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile .
The usual adult dosage is 500 mg to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days .
Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro .
If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently , it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin .
PRECAUTIONS General : Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution contains an alcohol base which will cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with sensitive surfaces ( eye , abraded skin , mucous membranes ) , bathe with copious amounts of cool tap water .
The solution has an unpleasant taste and caution should be exercised when applying medication around the mouth .
Clindamycin phosphate should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Drug Interactions : Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters , has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
There are no adequate studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of clindamycin phosphate .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breastfed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
If oral or intravenous clindamycin is required by a nursing mother , it is not a reason to discontinue breastfeeding , but an alternate drug may be preferred .
Monitor the infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies for topical Clindamycin products did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and / or active comparator drugs as controls , patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [ see table below ] .
Number of Patients Reporting Events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution Gel Lotion n = 553 ( % ) n = 148 ( % ) n = 160 ( % ) Burning 62 ( 11 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Itching 36 ( 7 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Burning / Itching 60 ( 11 ) # ( – ) # ( – ) Dryness 105 ( 19 ) 34 ( 23 ) 29 ( 18 ) Erythema 86 ( 16 ) 10 ( 7 ) 22 ( 14 ) Oiliness / Oily Skin 8 ( 1 ) 26 ( 18 ) 12 * ( 10 ) Peeling 61 ( 11 ) # ( – ) 11 ( 7 ) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally .
Cases of diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin .
( see WARNINGS . )
Abdominal pain , gastrointestinal disturbances , gram - negative folliculitis , eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clindamycin phosphate can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( see WARNINGS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution , Clindamycin Phosphate Lotion , or Clindamycin Phosphate Gel twice daily to affected area .
Lotion : Shake well immediately before using .
Keep all liquid dosage forms in containers tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin Phosphate Gel , USP 1 % containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram is available in the following sizes : 30 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0202 - 30 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from freezing .
Fougera PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
MELVILLE , NEW YORK 11747 46206122 A / 46206123 A R03 / 18 ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Octinoxate 7 . 5 % .................
Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % .....................
Sunscreen Octocrylene 7 % .................. Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6 % .................
Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide 5 . 7 % ........ Sunscreen USES Helps prevent sunburn .
WARNINGS Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging .
This product has been shown to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early aging .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Water , Propylene Glycol , Glycerin , Dimethicone , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Cyclomethicone , Stearic Acid , Dimethiconol , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG - 100 Stearate , Aluminum Hydroxide , Disodium EDTA , Tocopherol , Triethanolamine , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylparaben , Chlorphenesin , Cetyl Alcohol , Carbomer , Methylparaben , Xanthan Gum OTHER INFORMATION • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
QUESTIONS 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 CETAPHIL DAILY FACIAL MOISTURIZER ( 0299 - 4930 - 02 ) CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE GEL 30 g ( 0168 - 0202 - 30 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0168 - 0203 - 60 Fougera ® CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE LOTION ( Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Suspension USP , 1 % ) Equivalent to 1 % ( 10 mg / mL ) clindamycin FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
60 mL Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CETAPHIL DAILY FACIAL MOISTURIZER 50 mL ( 0299 - 4930 - 02 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NuCaraClinPAK ( 70859 - 051 - 01 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
