FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
Rx only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use .
DESCRIPTION Calcipotriene Cream , 0 . 005 % contains calcipotriene monohydrate , a synthetic vitamin D 3 derivative , for topical dermatological use .
Chemically , calcipotriene monohydrate is ( 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E , 24 S ) - 24 - cyclopropyl - 9 , 10 - secochola - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1α , 3β , 24 - triol monohydrate , with the empirical formula C 27 H 40 O 3 • H 2 O , a molecular weight of 430 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcipotriene monohydrate is a white or off - white crystalline substance .
Calcipotriene Cream contains calcipotriene monohydrate equivalent to 50 μg / g anhydrous calcipotriene in a cream base of cetearyl alcohol , ceteth - 20 , diazolidinyl urea , dichlorobenzyl alcohol , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , dl - alpha tocopherol , glycerin , mineral oil , petrolatum , and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In humans , the natural supply of vitamin D depends mainly on exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun for conversion of 7 - dehydrocholesterol to vitamin D 3 ( cholecalciferol ) in the skin .
Calcipotriene is a synthetic analog of vitamin D 3 .
Clinical studies with radiolabelled calcipotriene ointment indicate that approximately 6 % ( ± 3 % , SD ) of the applied dose of calcipotriene is absorbed systemically when the ointment is applied topically to psoriasis plaques , or 5 % ( ± 2 . 6 % , SD ) when applied to normal skin , and much of the absorbed active is converted to inactive metabolites within 24 hours of application .
Systemic absorption of the cream has not been studied .
Vitamin D and its metabolites are transported in the blood , bound to specific plasma proteins .
The active form of the vitamin , 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D 3 ( calcitriol ) , is known to be recycled via the liver and excreted in the bile .
Calcipotriene metabolism following systemic uptake is rapid , and occurs via a similar pathway to the natural hormone .
CLINICAL STUDIES Adequate and well - controlled trials of patients treated with Calcipotriene Cream have demonstrated improvement usually beginning after 2 weeks of therapy .
This improvement continued with approximately 50 % of patients showing at least marked improvement in the signs and symptoms of psoriasis after 8 weeks of therapy , but only approximately 4 % showed complete clearing .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Calcipotriene Cream , 0 . 005 % , is indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis .
The safety and effectiveness of topical calcipotriene in dermatoses other than psoriasis have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Calcipotriene Cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
It should not be used by patients with demonstrated hypercalcemia or evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
Calcipotriene Cream should not be used on the face .
WARNINGS Contact dermatitis , including allergic contact dermatitis , has been observed with the use of Calcipotriene Cream .
PRECAUTIONS General Use of Calcipotriene Cream may cause transient irritation of both lesions and surrounding uninvolved skin .
If irritation develops , Calcipotriene Cream should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
Reversible elevation of serum calcium has occurred with use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium outside the normal range should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored .
Information for Patients Patients using Calcipotriene Cream should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used only as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the face or eyes .
As with any topical medication , patients should wash their hands after application .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of adverse reactions .
• Patients that apply Calcipotriene Cream to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility When calcipotriene was applied topically to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 3 , 10 and 30 µg / kg / day ( corresponding to 9 , 30 and 90 µg / m 2 / day ) , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
In a study in which albino hairless mice were exposed to both UVR and topically applied calcipotriene , a reduction in the time required for UVR to induce the formation of skin tumors was observed ( statistically significant in males only ) , suggesting that calcipotriene may enhance the effect of UVR to induce skin tumors .
Patients that apply Calcipotriene Cream to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients that use Calcipotriene Cream .
Calcipotriene did not elicit any mutagenic effects in an Ames mutagenicity assay , a mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , a human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , or in a micronucleus assay conducted in mice .
Studies in rats at doses up to 54 μg / kg / day ( 324 μg / m 2 / day ) of calcipotriene indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Studies of teratogenicity were done by the oral route where bioavailability is expected to be approximately 40 - 60 % of the administered dose .
Increased rabbit maternal and fetal toxicity was noted at 12 μg / kg / day ( 132 μg / m 2 / day ) .
Rabbits administered 36 μg / kg / day ( 396 μg / m 2 / day ) resulted in fetuses with a significant increase in the incidences of pubic bones , forelimb phalanges , and incomplete bone ossification .
In a rat study , oral doses of 54 μg / kg / day ( 318 μg / m 2 / day ) resulted in a significantly higher incidence of skeletal abnormalities consisting primarily of enlarged fontanelles and extra ribs .
The enlarged fontanelles are most likely due to calcipotriene ' s effect upon calcium metabolism .
The maternal and fetal calculated no - effect exposures in the rat ( 43 . 2 μg / m 2 / day ) and rabbit ( 17 . 6 μg / m 2 / day ) studies are approximately equal to the expected human systemic exposure level ( 18 . 5 μg / m 2 / day ) from dermal application .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , Calcipotriene Cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers There is evidence that maternal 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D 3 ( calcitriol ) may enter the fetal circulation , but it is not known whether it is excreted in human milk .
The systemic disposition of calcipotriene is expected to be similar to that of the naturally occurring vitamin .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Calcipotriene Cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Calcipotriene Cream in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at greater risk than adults of systemic adverse effects when they are treated with topical medication .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of calcipotriene cream , approximately 15 % were 65 or older , while approximately 3 % were 75 and over .
There were no significant differences in adverse events for subjects over 65 years compared to those under 65 years of age .
However , the greater sensitivity of older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience In controlled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse experiences reported for Calcipotriene Cream , 0 . 005 % were cases of skin irritation , which occurred in approximately 10 - 15 % of patients .
Rash , pruritus , dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10 % of patients .
Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Calcipotriene Cream have been identified post - approval : contact dermatitis including allergic contact dermatitis .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied calcipotriene can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
Elevated serum calcium has been observed with excessive use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of Calcipotriene Cream to the affected skin twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
The safety and efficacy of Calcipotriene Cream have been demonstrated in patients treated for eight weeks .
HOW SUPPLIED Calcipotriene Cream , 0 . 005 % is available in : 120 gram aluminum tubes ( NDC 66993 - 877 - 78 ) STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° C - 25 ° C ( 59 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Prasco Laboratories , Mason , OH 45040 USA Manufactured by : LEO Laboratories Ltd . , Dublin 12 , Ireland To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact LEO Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 494 - 4536 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch Revised 06 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] DIMETHICONE , 118 mL ( 68599 - 0213 - 4 ) Drug Facts ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Dimethicone 5 . 0 % PURPOSE Skin Protectant INDICATIONS & USAGE Uses For the treatment and / or prevention of diaper rash temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin WARNINGS For external use only .
• When using this product • do not get into eyes Do not use on • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns STOP USE SECTION Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Directions • Cleanse skin with Thera Moisturizing Body Cleanser or Thera Foaming Body Cleanser • Apply cream liberally until entire area is covered • Apply as needed OTHER INFORMATION Store at 40 - 95ºF ( 4 - 35ºC ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Inactive Ingredients : Purified Water , Glyceryl Stearate , PEG 100 Stearate , Stearic Acid , Aleurites Moluccana Seed Oil , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Calcium Pantothenate ( Vitamin B5 ) , Maltodextrin , Niacinamide ( Vitamin B3 ) , Pyridoxine HCL ( Vitamin B6 ) , Silica , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate ( Vitamin C ) , Sodium Starch Octenylsuccinate , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hyaluronate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Zingiber Officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extract , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Fragrance , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Chlorphenesin , Bisabolol , Lysine , Histidine , Arginine , Aspartic Acid , Threonine , Serine , Glutamic Acid , Proline , Glycine , Alanine , Valine , Methionine , Isoleucine , Leucine , Tyrosine , Phenylalanine , Cysteine , Triethanolamine QUESTIONS Call 1 - 800 - 777 - 4908 Principal Display Panel - CALCIPOTRIENE 120 g NDC 66993 - 877 - 78 Calcipotriene Cream 0 . 005 % Net Wt .
120 g Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DIMETHICONE 68599 - 0213 - 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NuDermRXPAK 120 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
