Drug Facts Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 2 % Zinc Oxide 15 . 8 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses ♦ helps prevent sunburn ♦ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Shake well .
Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures , including : ♦ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . ♦ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Reapply : at least every 2 hours ♦ Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Other information ♦ protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua / Eau ) , Dicaprylyl Carbonate , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oleosomes , Propanediol , Coconut Alkanes , Silica , C9 - 12 Alkane , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Wax , Cetyl Alcohol , Ectoin , Sea Water , Allantoin , Glycerin , Hydroxyacetophenone , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Caprylyl Glycol , Stearic Acid , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Gluconolactone , Trisodium Ethylenediamine Disuccinate , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Hydroxide HONEST ® SELF DEFENSE MINERAL SUNSCREEN FLUID SPF 34 UNDER COVER Honest Sea Water ™ + Zinc Oxide + Titanium Dioxide + Extremolyte ALL SKIN TYPES 1 . 0 fl .
oz .
/ 30 mL JOIN US AT HONEST . COM or call 888 - 862 - 8818 © 2021 Dist .
by The Honest Company , Inc .
Los Angeles , CA 90094 Made in USA from US and imported materials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
