1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for prevention of : • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) .
• acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 17 years of age for prevention of : • acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist indicated in : Adults for prevention of : • acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( MEC ) .
( 1 ) • acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) .
( 1 ) Pediatric patients aged 1 month to less than 17 years for prevention of : • acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( HEC ) .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting ( 2 . 1 ) * Note different dosing units in pediatrics Age Dose * Infusion Time Adults 0 . 25 mg as a single dose Infuse over 30 seconds beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Pediatrics ( 1 month to less than 17 years ) 20 micrograms per kilogram ( maximum 1 . 5 mg ) as a single dose Infuse over 15 minutes beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Instructions for Intravenous Administration • For a dose of 0 . 25 mg , use the entire contents ( 5 mL ) of the prefilled syringe .
Do not use the prefilled syringe to administer a dose of less than 0 . 25 mg ( 5 mL ) .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Prevention of Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The recommended dosage of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection for prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with HEC and MEC in adults and associated with emetogenic chemotherapy , including HEC in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 17 years of age is shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Chemotherapy in Adults and Pediatric Patients 1 Month to Less than 17 Years * Note different dosing units in pediatrics Age Dose * Infusion Time Adults 0 . 25 mg as a single dose Infuse over 30 seconds beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Pediatrics ( 1 month to less than 17 years ) 20 micrograms per kilogram ( max 1 . 5 mg ) as a single dose Infuse over 15 minutes beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy 2 . 2 Instructions for Intravenous Administration • Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is supplied ready for intravenous administration at a concentration of 0 . 05 mg / mL ( 50 mcg / mL ) .
• Do not mix Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection with other drugs .
• Flush the infusion line with normal saline before and after administration of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
• Inspect Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration .
• Expel air from syringe prior to administration .
For a dose of 0 . 25 mg , use the entire contents ( 5 mL ) of the prefilled syringe .
• Do not use the prefilled syringe to administer a dose less than 0 . 25 mg ( 5 mL ) • Use aseptic technique while handling the syringe 3 .
DOSAGE FORM AND STRENGTHS Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is supplied as a single - dose sterile , clear , colorless solution in a prefilled syringe that provides : • 0 . 25 mg ( free base ) per 5 mL ( concentration : 0 . 05 mg per mL , 50 mcg per mL ) 0 . 25 mg ( free base ) per 5 mL ( concentration : 0 . 05 mg per mL , 50 mcg per mL ) single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity to palonosetron [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to palonosetron or any of its components ( 4 ) 5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock : reported in patients with or without known hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
If symptoms occur , discontinue Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serotonin syndrome : reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone , but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs .
( 5 . 2 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , have been reported with administration of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
These reactions occurred in patients with or without known hypersensitivity to other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Do not reinitiate Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection in patients who have previously experienced symptoms of hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious or otherwise clinically significant adverse reactions reported in other sections of labeling : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions in • chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting in adults ( ≥ 5 % ) are : headache and constipation ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Adults In double - blind randomized clinical trials for the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by MEC or HEC , 1 , 374 adult patients received a single dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection , ondansetron ( Studies 1 and 3 ) or dolasetron ( Study 2 ) administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Adverse reactions were similar in frequency and severity in all 3 treatment groups .
Common adverse reactions reported in at least 2 % of patients in these trials are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions * in Adults with Receiving MEC ( Studies 1 and 2 ) or HEC ( Study 3 ) * Reported in at least 2 % of patients in any treatment group Adverse Reaction Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously ( N = 633 ) Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously ( N = 410 ) Dolasetron 100 mg intravenously ( N = 194 ) Headache 9 % 8 % 16 % Constipation 5 % 2 % 6 % Diarrhea 1 % 2 % 2 % Dizziness 1 % 2 % 2 % Fatigue < 1 % 1 % 2 % Abdominal Pain < 1 % < 1 % 2 % Insomnia < 1 % 1 % 2 % Less common adverse reactions , reported in 1 % or less of patients , in Studies 1 , 2 and 3 were : • Cardiovascular : non - sustained tachycardia , bradycardia , hypotension , hypertension , myocardial ischemia , extrasystoles , sinus tachycardia , sinus arrhythmia , supraventricular extrasystoles and QT prolongation .
• Dermatological : allergic dermatitis , rash • Hearing and Vision : motion sickness , tinnitus , eye irritation and amblyopia • Gastrointestinal System : diarrhea , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , dry mouth , hiccups and flatulence • General : weakness , fatigue , fever , hot flash , flu - like syndrome • Liver : transient , asymptomatic increases in AST and / or ALT and bilirubin .
These changes occurred predominantly in patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy • Metabolic : hyperkalemia , electrolyte fluctuations , hyperglycemia , metabolic acidosis , glycosuria , appetite decrease , anorexia • Musculoskeletal : arthralgia • Nervous System : dizziness , somnolence , insomnia , hypersomnia , paresthesia • Psychiatric : anxiety , euphoric mood • Urinary System : urinary retention • Vascular : vein discoloration , vein distention In other studies , 2 subjects experienced severe constipation following a single Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection dose of approximately 0 . 75 mg ( three times the recommended dose ) .
Pediatrics Aged 2 Months to 17 Years In a pediatric clinical trial , 163 pediatric cancer patients with a mean age of 8 years received a single 20 mcg / kg ( maximum 1 . 5 mg ) intravenous infusion of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 30 minutes before beginning the first cycle of emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Adverse reactions were evaluated in pediatric patients receiving Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection for up to 4 chemotherapy cycles .
The following adverse reactions were reported in less than 1 % of patients : • Nervous System : headache , dizziness , dyskinesia .
• General : infusion site pain .
• Dermatological : allergic dermatitis , skin disorder .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of palonosetron HCl .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Hypersensitivity reactions : including dyspnea , bronchospasm , swelling / edema , erythema , pruritus , rash , urticaria , anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Injection site reactions : including burning , induration , discomfort and pain 7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Serotonergic Drugs : Monitor for serotonin syndrome ; if symptoms occur , discontinue Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and initiate supportive treatment .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on palonosetron HCl use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed with the administration of oral palonosetron HCl during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 1 , 894 and 3 , 789 times the recommended human intravenous dose in rats and rabbits , respectively ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed in pregnant rats given oral palonosetron HCl at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 894 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) or pregnant rabbits given oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( 3 , 789 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) during the period of organogenesis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of palonosetron in human milk , the effects of palonosetron on the breastfed infant , or the effects of palonosetron on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and any potential adverse effect on the breastfed infant from palonosetron or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Safety and effectiveness of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection have been established in pediatric patients aged 1 month to less than 17 years for the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including HEC .
Use is supported by a clinical trial where 165 pediatric patients aged 2 months to less than 17 years were randomized to receive a single dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 20 mcg / kg ( maximum 1 . 5 mg ) administered as an intravenous infusion 30 minutes prior to the start of emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
While this study demonstrated that pediatric patients require a higher palonosetron dose than adults to prevent chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting , the safety profile is consistent with the established profile in adults [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection in neonates ( less than 1 month of age ) have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1 , 374 adult cancer patients in clinical studies of intravenously administered palonosetron HCl , 316 ( 23 % ) were 65 years and over , while 71 ( 5 % ) were at least 75 years and over .
Of the 1 , 520 adult patients in clinical studies of intravenously administered palonosetron HCl , 73 ( 5 % ) were at least 65 years old [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity in some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Population pharmacokinetics analysis did not reveal any differences in palonosetron pharmacokinetics between cancer patients 65 years of age and older compared to younger patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is required for geriatric patients .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote to palonosetron .
Overdose should be managed with supportive care .
Dialysis studies have not been performed , however , due to the large volume of distribution , dialysis is unlikely to be an effective treatment for palonosetron overdose .
A single intravenous dose of palonosetron ( HCl ) at 30 mg / kg ( 947 and 474 times the human dose for rats and mice , respectively , based on body surface area ) was lethal to rats and mice .
The major signs of toxicity were convulsions , gasping , pallor , cyanosis and collapse .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection contains palonosetron as palonosetron HCl , an antiemetic and antinauseant agent .
It is a serotonin - 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor .
Chemically , palonosetron hydrochloride is : ( 3 aS ) - 2 - [ ( S ) - 1 - Azabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] oct - 3 - yl ] - 2 , 3 , 3 a , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexahydro - 1 - oxo - 1 Hbenz [ de ] isoquinoline hydrochloride .
Palonosetron hydrochloride exists as a single isomer and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C19 H24 N2O • HCl M . W . 332 . 87 Palonosetron Hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in propylene glycol , and slightly soluble in ethanol and 2 - propanol .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is a sterile , clear , colorless , non - pyrogenic , isotonic , buffered solution for intravenous administration .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is available as a 5 mL single - dose prefilled syringe .
Each 5 mL syringe contains : 0 . 25 mg palonosetron ( equivalent to 0 . 28 mg palonosetron HCl ) , 202 . 4 mg mannitol , 2 . 5 mg edetate disodium dihydrate , 18 mg trisodium citrate dihydrate , and 7 mg citric acid anhydrous in water for intravenous administration .
The pH of the solution in the 5 mL syringe is 4 . 5 to 5 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Palonosetron is a 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist with a strong binding affinity for this receptor and little or no affinity for other receptors .
Cancer chemotherapy may be associated with a high incidence of nausea and vomiting , particularly when certain agents , such as cisplatin , are used .
5 - HT3 receptors are located on the nerve terminals of the vagus in the periphery and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is thought that chemotherapeutic agents produce nausea and vomiting by releasing serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine and that the released serotonin then activates 5 - HT3 receptors located on vagal afferents to initiate the vomiting reflex .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of intravenous palonosetron on blood pressure , heart rate , and ECG parameters including QTc were comparable to intravenous ondansetron and dolasetron in CINV clinical trials .
In non - clinical studies palonosetron possesses the ability to block ion channels involved in ventricular de - and re - polarization and to prolong action potential duration .
At a dose of 9 times the maximum recommended adult dose , Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After intravenous dosing of palonosetron HCl in healthy subjects and cancer patients , an initial decline in palonosetron plasma concentrations is followed by a slow elimination from the body .
Mean maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC0 - ∞ ) are generally dose - proportional over the dose range of 0 . 3 to 90 mcg / kg in healthy subjects and in cancer patients .
Following a single intravenous dose of palonosetron HCl at 3 mcg / kg ( or 0 . 21 mg / 70 kg ) to six cancer patients , mean ( ± SD ) maximum plasma concentration was estimated to be 5 , 630 ± 5 , 480 ng / L and mean AUC was 35 . 8 ± 20 . 9 h • mcg / L .
Following intravenous administration of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg once every other day for 3 doses in 11 cancer patients , the mean increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 5 was 42 ± 34 % .
Following intravenous administration of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg once daily for 3 days in 12 healthy subjects , the mean ( ± SD ) increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 3 was 110 ± 45 % .
Distribution Palonosetron has a volume of distribution of approximately 8 . 3 ± 2 . 5 L / kg .
Approximately 62 % of palonosetron is bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination After a single intravenous dose of 10 mcg / kg [ 14 C ] - palonosetron , approximately 80 % of the dose was recovered within 144 hours in the urine with palonosetron representing approximately 40 % of the administered dose .
In healthy subjects , the total body clearance of palonosetron was 0 . 160 ± 0 . 035 L / h / kg and renal clearance was 0 . 067 ± 0 . 018 L / h / kg .
Mean terminal elimination half - life is approximately 40 hours .
Metabolism Palonosetron is eliminated by multiple routes with approximately 50 % metabolized to form two primary metabolites : N - oxide - palonosetron and 6 - S - hydroxy - palonosetron .
These metabolites each have less than 1 % of the 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity of palonosetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have suggested that CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent , CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are involved in the metabolism of palonosetron .
However , clinical pharmacokinetic parameters are not significantly different between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients Pharmacokinetic data was obtained from a subset of pediatric cancer patients that received 10 mcg / kg or 20 mcg / kg as a single intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
When the dose was increased from 10 mcg / kg to 20 mcg / kg a dose - proportional increase in mean AUC was observed .
Peak plasma concentrations ( CT ) reported at the end of the 15 - minute infusion of 20 mcg / kg were highly variable in all age groups and tended to be lower in patients less than 6 years than in older patients as shown in Table 4 .
The median half - life was 30 hours in overall age groups and ranged from about 20 to 30 hours across age groups after administration of 20 mcg / kg .
The total body clearance ( L / h / kg ) in patients 12 to 17 years old was similar to that in healthy adults .
There are no apparent differences in volume of distribution when expressed as L / kg .
Table 4 : Pharmacokinetics Parameters in Pediatric Cancer Patients following Intravenous Infusion of 20 mcg / kg Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection Over 15 minutes a Geometric Mean ( CV ) except for t1 / 2 which is median values b CT is the plasma palonosetron concentration at the end of the 15 - minute infusion c Clearance and Vss calculated from 10 and 20 mcg / kg and are weight adjusted PK Parametera Pediatric Age Group Less than 2 years 2 years to less than 6 years 6 years to less than 12 years 12 years to less than 17 years N = 12 N = 42 N = 38 N = 44 CTb , ng / L 9025 ( 197 ) 9414 ( 252 ) 16275 ( 203 ) 11831 ( 176 ) N = 5 N = 7 N = 10 AUC0 - ∞ , h · mcg / L 103 . 5 ( 40 . 4 ) 98 . 7 ( 47 . 7 ) 124 . 5 ( 19 . 1 ) N = 6 N = 14 N = 13 N = 19 Clearancec , L / h / kg 0 . 31 ( 34 . 7 ) 0 . 23 ( 51 . 3 ) 0 . 19 ( 46 . 8 ) 0 . 16 ( 27 . 8 ) Vssc , L / kg 6 . 08 ( 36 . 5 ) 5 . 29 ( 57 . 8 ) 6 . 26 ( 40 . 0 ) 6 . 20 ( 29 . 0 ) Racial or Ethnic Groups The pharmacokinetics of palonosetron were characterized in 24 healthy Japanese subjects over an intravenous dose range of 3 to 90 mcg / kg .
Total body clearance was 25 % higher in Japanese subjects compared to Whites , however , this increase is not considered to be clinically meaningful .
Patients with Renal Impairment Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron pharmacokinetic parameters .
Total systemic exposure increased by approximately 28 % in patients with severe renal impairment relative to healthy subjects .
This increase is not considered clinically meaningful .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect total body clearance of palonosetron compared to the healthy subjects .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies indicated that palonosetron is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C9 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 / 5 ( CYP2C19 was not investigated ) nor does it induce the activity of CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , or CYP3A4 / 5 .
Therefore , the potential for clinically significant drug interactions with palonosetron appears to be low .
Dexamethasone Coadministration of 0 . 25 mg Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and 20 mg dexamethasone administered intravenously in healthy subjects revealed no pharmacokinetic drug - interactions between palonosetron and dexamethasone .
Oral Aprepitant In an interaction study in healthy subjects where a single 0 . 25 mg intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection was administered on day 1 and oral aprepitant for 3 days ( 125 mg / 80 mg / 80 mg ) , the pharmacokinetics of palonosetron were not significantly altered ( AUC : no change , Cmax : 15 % increase ) .
Metoclopramide A study in healthy subjects involving a single 0 . 75 mg intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and steady state oral metoclopramide ( 10 mg four times daily ) demonstrated no significant pharmacokinetic interaction .
Corticosteroids , Analgesics , Antiemetics / Antinauseants , Antispasmodics and Anticholinergic Agents In controlled clinical trials , Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection has been safely administered with corticosteroids , analgesics , antiemetics / antinauseants , antispasmodics and anticholinergic agents .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , animals were treated with oral doses of palonosetron HCl at 10 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day .
Treatment with palonosetron was not tumorigenic .
The highest tested dose produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( Plasma AUC ) of about 150 to 289 times the human exposure ( AUC = 29 . 8 h • mcg / L ) at the recommended intravenous dose of 0 . 25 mg .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , male and female rats were treated with oral doses of 15 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day and 15 , 45 and 90 mg / kg / day , respectively .
The highest doses produced a systemic exposure to palonosetron ( Plasma AUC ) of 137 and 308 times the human exposure at the recommended dose .
Treatment with palonosetron produced increased incidences of adrenal benign pheochromocytoma and combined benign and malignant pheochromocytoma , increased incidences of pancreatic Islet cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma and pituitary adenoma in male rats .
In female rats , it produced hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma and increased the incidences of thyroid C - cell adenoma and combined adenoma and carcinoma .
Palonosetron was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovarian cell ( CHO / HGPRT ) forward mutation test , the ex vivo hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test or the mouse micronucleus test .
It was , however , positive for clastogenic effects in the Chinese hamster ovarian ( CHO ) cell chromosomal aberration test .
Palonosetron HCl at oral doses up to 60 mg / kg / day ( about 1 , 894 times the recommended human intravenous dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC and HEC in Adults Efficacy of a single intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection in preventing acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with MEC or HEC were studied in 4 trials .
In these double - blind studies , complete response rates ( no emetic episodes and no rescue medication ) and other efficacy parameters were assessed through at least 120 hours after administration of chemotherapy .
The safety and efficacy of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection in repeated courses of chemotherapy was also assessed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy Two double - blind trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) involving 1 , 132 patients compared a single dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection with either a single - dose of ondansetron ( Study 1 ) or dolasetron ( Study 2 ) given 30 minutes prior to MEC , including carboplatin , cisplatin ≤ 50 mg / m2 , cyclophosphamide < 1 , 500 mg / m2 , doxorubicin > 25 mg / m2 , epirubicin , irinotecan , and methotrexate > 250 mg / m2 .
Concomitant corticosteroids were not administered prophylactically in Study 1 and were only used by 4 to 6 % of patients in Study 2 .
The majority of patients in these studies were women ( 77 % ) , White ( 65 % ) and naïve to previous chemotherapy ( 54 % ) .
The mean age was 55 years .
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy A double - blind , dose - ranging trial evaluated the efficacy of a single intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection from 0 . 3 to 90 mcg / kg ( equivalent to < 0 . 1 mg to 6 mg fixed dose ) in 161 chemotherapy - naïve adult cancer patients receiving HEC , either cisplatin ≥ 70 mg / m2 or cyclophosphamide > 1 , 100 mg / m2 .
Concomitant corticosteroids were not administered prophylactically .
Analysis of data from this trial indicates that 0 . 25 mg is the lowest effective dose in preventing acute nausea and vomiting associated with HEC .
A double - blind trial involving 667 patients compared a single intravenous dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection with a single intravenous dose of ondansetron ( Study 3 ) given 30 minutes prior to HEC , including cisplatin ≥ 60 mg / m2 , cyclophosphamide > 1 , 500 mg / m2 , and dacarbazine .
Corticosteroids were co - administered prophylactically before chemotherapy in 67 % of patients .
Of the 667 patients , 51 % were women , 60 % White , and 59 % naïve to previous chemotherapy .
The mean age was 52 years .
Efficacy Results Studies 1 , 2 and 3 show that Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection was effective in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of MEC and HEC in the acute phase ( 0 to 24 hours ) [ Table 5 ] .
Clinical superiority over other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists has not been adequately demonstrated in the acute phase .
In Study 3 , efficacy was greater when prophylactic corticosteroids were administered concomitantly .
Studies 1 and 2 show that Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection was effective in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat course of MEC in the delayed phase ( 24 to 120 hours ) [ Table 6 ] and overall phase ( 0 to 120 hours ) [ Table 7 ] .
Table 5 : Prevention of Acute Nausea and Vomiting ( 0 to 24 Hours ) in Adults with Nausea and Vomiting Associated with MEC or HEC in Studies 1 , 2 and 3 : Complete Response Rates a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ' s exact test .
Significance level at α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than - 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and comparator .
Chemotherapy Study Treatment Group Na % with Complete Response p - valueb 97 . 5 % Confidence Interval Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection minus Comparatorc [ MULTIMEDIA ] Moderately Emetogenic 1 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 81 0 . 009 Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously 185 69 2 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 63 NS Dolasetron 100 mg intravenously 191 53 Highly Emetogenic 3 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 223 59 NS Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously 221 57 Table 6 : Prevention of Delayed Nausea and Vomiting ( 24 to 120 Hours ) Associated with MEC in Adults in Studies 1 and 2 : Complete Response Rates a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ' s exact test .
Significance level at α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than - 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and comparator .
d Ondansetron 32 mg intravenous was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the trial , it is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
Chemotherapy Study Treatment Group Na % with Complete Response p - valueb 97 . 5 % Confidence Interval Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection minus Comparatorc [ MULTIMEDIA ] Moderately Emetogenic 1 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 74 < 0 . 001 Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously d 185 55 2 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 54 0 . 004 Dolasetron 100 mg intravenously 191 39 Table 7 : Prevention of Overall Nausea and Vomiting ( 0 to 120 Hours ) Associated with MEC in Adults in Studies 1 and 2 : Complete Response Rates a Intent - to - treat cohort b 2 - sided Fisher ' s exact test .
Significance level at α = 0 . 025 .
c These studies were designed to show non - inferiority .
A lower bound greater than - 15 % demonstrates non - inferiority between Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and comparator .
d Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously was used in the clinical trial .
Although this dose was used in the trial , it is no longer the currently recommended dose .
Refer to the ondansetron prescribing information for the current recommended dose .
Chemotherapy Study Treatment Group Na % with Complete Response p - valueb 97 . 5 % Confidence Interval Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection minus Comparatorc [ MULTIMEDIA ] Moderately Emetogenic 1 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 69 < 0 . 001 Ondansetron 32 mg intravenously d 185 50 2 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg intravenously 189 46 0 . 021 Dolasetron 100 mg intravenously 191 34 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Emetogenic Chemotherapy , Including HEC in Pediatric Patients One double - blind , active - controlled clinical trial was conducted in pediatric cancer patients .
The total population ( N = 327 ) had a mean age of 8 . 3 years ( range 2 months to 16 . 9 years ) and were 53 % male ; and 96 % white .
Patients were randomized and received a 20 mcg / kg ( maximum 1 . 5 mg ) intravenous infusion of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 30 minutes prior to the start of emetogenic chemotherapy ( followed by placebo infusions 4 and 8 hours after the dose of Palonosetron Hydrochloride injection ) or 0 . 15 mg / kg of intravenous ondansetron 30 minutes prior to the start of emetogenic chemotherapy ( followed by ondansetron 0 . 15 mg / kg infusions 4 and 8 hours after the first dose of ondansetron , with a maximum total dose of 32 mg ) .
Emetogenic chemotherapies administered included doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide ( < 1 , 500 mg / m2 ) , ifosfamide , cisplatin , dactinomycin , carboplatin , and daunorubicin .
Adjuvant corticosteroids , including dexamethasone , were administered with chemotherapy in 55 % of patients .
Complete Response in the acute phase of the first cycle of chemotherapy was defined as no vomiting , no retching , and no rescue medication in the first 24 hours after starting chemotherapy .
Efficacy was based on demonstrating non - inferiority of intravenous Palonosetron Hydrochloride injection compared to intravenous ondansetron .
Non - inferiority criteria were met if the lower bound of the 97 . 5 % confidence interval for the difference in Complete Response rates of intravenous Palonosetron Hydrochloride injection minus intravenous ondansetron was larger than - 15 % .
The non - inferiority margin was 15 % .
Efficacy Results As shown in Table 8 , intravenous Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 20 mcg / kg ( maximum 1 . 5 mg ) demonstrated non - inferiority to the active comparator during the 0 to 24 - hour time interval .
Table 8 : Prevention of Acute Nausea and Vomiting ( 0 to 24 Hours ) Associated with Emetogenic Chemotherapy in Pediatric Patients : Complete Response Rates a To adjust for multiplicity of treatment groups , a lower - bound of a 97 . 5 % confidence interval was used to compare to - 15 % , the negative value of the non - inferiority margin .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 20 mcg / kg intravenously ( N = 165 ) Ondansetron 0 . 15 mg / kg for 3 intravenous doses ( N = 162 ) Difference [ 97 . 5 % Confidence Interval ] a : Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection minus intravenous Ondansetron Comparator 59 . 4 % 58 . 6 % 0 . 36 % [ - 11 . 7 % , 12 . 4 % ] In patients that received Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection at a lower dose than the recommended dose of 20 mcg / kg , non - inferiority criteria were not met .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg / 5 mL ( free base ) single - dose prefilled syringe is available as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Strength Package 673189 63323 - 673 - 89 0 . 25 mg per 5 mL ( 0 . 05 mg per mL ) 5 mL single - dose prefilled syringe , individually packaged in cartons of ten .
Storage • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Protect from freezing .
• Protect from light .
• Discard unused portion 17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock , have been reported in patients with or without known hypersensitivity to other 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction occur with administration of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of Palonosetron Hydrochloride injection and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Austria www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451400 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
451401 B Patient Information Palonosetron Hydrochloride ( PAL - oh - NOE - se - tron HYE - dro - KLOR - ide ) Injection for Intravenous Use Read this Patient Information before you receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and each time you receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is a prescription medicine called an “ antiemetic . ”
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is used in adults to help prevent the nausea and vomiting that happens : • right away or later with certain anti - cancer medicines ( chemotherapy ) Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is used in children 1 month old to less than 17 years of age to help prevent the nausea and vomiting that happens right away with certain anti - cancer medicines ( chemotherapy ) .
• It is not known if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is safe and effective in children less than 1 month old to help prevent nausea and vomiting after chemotherapy .
Who should not receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Do not receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection if you are allergic to palonosetron hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
What should I tell my doctor before receiving Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Before receiving Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have had an allergic reaction to another medicine for nausea or vomiting • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby or your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you will receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection and certain other medicines can affect each other , causing serious side effects .
How will I receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride injection ?
• Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection will be given to you in your vein by intravenous ( I . V . ) injection .
• Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection is usually given about 30 minutes before you receive your anti - cancer medicine ( chemotherapy ) .
What are the possible side effects of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious allergic reactions , such as anaphylaxis .
Get emergency medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms .
• hives • swollen face • breathing trouble • chest pain • Serotonin Syndrome .
A possible life threatening problem called serotonin syndrome can happen with medicines called 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , including Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection , especially when used with medicines used to treat depression and migraine headaches called serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) and certain other medicines .
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • agitation , seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , confusion , or coma • dizziness , sweating , flushing , or fever • seizures • fast heartbeat or unusual and frequent changes in your blood pressure • tremors , stiff muscles , muscle twitching , overactive reflexes , or loss of coordination • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea The most common side effects in adults who receive Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection to help prevent nausea and vomiting that happens with certain anti - cancer medicine ( chemotherapy ) include : headache and constipation .
These are not all the possible side effects from Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection ?
Active ingredient : palonosetron hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : mannitol , disodium edetate , and citrate buffer in water [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Austria For more information , go to www . fresenius - kabi . com / us or call 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Palonosetron Hydrochloride 0 . 25 mg Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe Label NDC 63323 - 673 - 21 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg * per 5 mL ( 0 . 05 mg * per mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only .
Discard Unused Portion .
5 mL Single - Dose Syringe Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Palonosetron Hydrochloride 0 . 25 mg Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe Individual Carton Panel NDC 63323 - 673 - 21 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg * per 5 mL ( 0 . 05 mg * per mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only .
Discard Unused Portion .
Rx only 1 x 5 mL Single - Dose Syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Palonosetron Hydrochloride 0 . 25 mg Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe Carton Panel NDC 63323 - 673 - 89 Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection 0 . 25 mg * per 5 mL ( 0 . 05 mg * per mL ) For Intravenous Injection Only .
10 x 5 mL Single - Dose Syringes Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
