DESCRIPTION Prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension , USP 1 % is a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory agent for ophthalmic use . Its chemical name is 11ß , 17 , 21 - Trihydroxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate and it has the following structure : Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] prednisolone acetate Each mL of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains : Active : prednisolone acetate ( microfine suspension ) 1 % Inactives : benzalkonium chloride as preservative ; boric acid ; edetate disodium ; hypromellose ; polysorbate 80 ; purified water ; sodium bisulfite ; sodium chloride ; and sodium citrate .
The pH during its shelf life ranges from 5 . 0 - 6 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Prednisolone acetate is a glucocorticoid that , on the basis of weight , has 3 to 5 times the anti - inflammatory potency of hydrocortisone .
Glucocorticoids inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , and phagocytic migration of the acute inflammatory response , as well as capillary proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % is indicated for the treatment of steroid - responsive inflammation of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % is contraindicated in acute untreated purulent ocular infections , in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation and may increase intraocular pressure in susceptible individuals , resulting in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision .
Prolonged use may also suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non - asthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 milliliters of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy , and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
Information for Patients Advise patients that if eye inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , they should consult a physician .
Advise patients that to prevent eye injury or contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Advise patients that prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % contains benzalkonium chloride , which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to application of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the potential of these effects .
Pregnancy Prednisolone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice when given in doses 1 - 10 times the human dose .
Dexamethasone , hydrocortisone , and prednisolone were ocularly applied to both eyes of pregnant mice five times per day on days 10 through 13 of gestation .
A significant increase in the incidence of cleft palate was observed in the fetuses of the treated mice .
There are no adequate well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Prednisolone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from prednisolone , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established .
Use in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension in adults with additional data in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during use of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension 1 % .
Because reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions include elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , and delayed wound healing .
The development of secondary ocular infection ( bacterial , fungal , and viral ) has occurred .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Other adverse reactions reported with the use of prednisolone acetate ophthalmic suspension include : allergic reactions ; dysgeusia ; eye pain ; foreign body sensation ; headache ; pruritus ; rash ; transient burning and stinging upon instillation and other minor symptoms of ocular irritation ; urticaria ; and visual disturbance ( blurry vision ) .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis and perforation of the globe .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage will not ordinarily cause acute problems .
If accidentally ingested , drink fluids to dilute .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Shake well before using .
Instill one to two drops into the conjunctival sac two to four times daily .
During the initial 24 to 48 hours , the dosing frequency may be increased if necessary .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days , the patient should be re - evaluated ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 1912 NDC : 50090 - 1912 - 0 10 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON prednisolone acetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
