1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older . 0 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is a high - potency corticosteroid .
Treatment with Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Wash hands after each application .
Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once or twice daily .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • Use no more than 50 g per week .
( 2 ) • • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) • • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 05 % .
Each gram of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in a white cream base .
• • Cream , 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
• • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medicine .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Effects on endocrine system : Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of treatment .
Risk factor ( s ) include the use of high - potency topical corticosteroids , use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion , prolonged use , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and use in pediatric patients .
Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • Visual disturbances : Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % may increase the risk of cataracts and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment .
Factors that predispose to HPA axis suppression include the use of high - potency steroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and young age .
Evaluation for HPA axis suppression may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % was applied once daily at 7 grams per day for 1 week to diseased skin , in adult subjects with psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , to study its effects on the HPA axis .
The results suggested that the drug lowered adrenal corticosteroid secretion , although plasma cortisol levels did not go below the lower limit of the normal range .
In an open - label pediatric trial of 60 evaluable subjects ( 3 months to 12 years of age ) , 19 subjects showed evidence of HPA axis suppression .
Four ( 4 ) subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % , and 3 of the 4 ( 75 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
The proportion of subjects with adrenal suppression in this trial was progressively greater , the younger the age group .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Cushing ’ s syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur with topical corticosteroids .
These events are rare and generally occur after prolonged exposure to excessively large doses , especially of high - potency topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Visual Disturbance Use of topical corticosteroids , including Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % , may increase the risk of posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma .
Cataracts and glaucoma have been reported postmarketing with the use of topical corticosteroid products , including Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Avoid contact of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • The most common adverse reaction reported in 0 . 4 % of adult patients is stinging .
( 6 . 1 ) • • The most common adverse reactions reported in 10 % of pediatric patients are signs of skin atrophy , telangiectasia , bruising , shininess .
( 6 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Perrigo at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In controlled clinical trials , involving 242 adult subjects , the adverse reaction associated with the use of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % reported at a frequency of 0 . 4 % was stinging .
It occurred in 1 subject .
In a controlled clinical trial involving 67 pediatric subjects from 3 months to 12 years of age , the adverse reactions associated with the use of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % occurred in 7 of 67 ( 10 % ) subjects .
Reported reactions included signs of skin atrophy ( telangiectasia , bruising , shininess ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids may also include : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , hypertrichosis , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
Hypersensitivity reactions , consisting of predominantly skin signs and symptoms , e . g . , contact dermatitis , pruritus , bullous dermatitis , and erythematous rash have been reported .
Ophthalmic adverse reactions of cataracts , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and central serous chorioretinopathy have been reported with the use of topical corticosteroids , including topical betamethasone products .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele , and cleft palate .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and can suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids can result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % in pediatric patients younger than 13 years of age is not recommended due to the potential for HPA axis suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In an open - label HPA axis safety trial in subjects 3 months to 12 years of age with atopic dermatitis , betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % was applied twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks over a mean body surface area of 58 % ( range 35 % to 95 % ) .
In 19 of 60 ( 32 % ) evaluable subjects , adrenal suppression was indicated by either a ≤ 5 mcg / dL pre - stimulation cortisol , or a cosyntropin post - stimulation cortisol ≤ 18 mcg / dL and / or an increase of < 7 mcg / dL from the baseline cortisol .
Out of the 19 subjects with HPA axis suppression , 4 subjects were tested 2 weeks after discontinuation of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % , and 3 of the 4 ( 75 % ) had complete recovery of HPA axis function .
The proportion of subjects with adrenal suppression in this trial was progressively greater , the younger the age group [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of systemic toxicity when treated with topical drugs .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of HPA axis suppression and adrenal insufficiency upon the use of topical corticosteroids .
Rare systemic effects such as Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients , especially those with prolonged exposure to large doses of high potency topical corticosteroids .
Local adverse reactions including skin atrophy have also been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
Avoid use of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % included 104 subjects who were 65 years of age and over and 8 subjects who were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % contains betamethasone dipropionate USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for topical use in a cream base .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of corticosteroid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % contains : 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) in a white cream base of carbomer homopolymer type C ; ceteareth - 30 ; chlorocresol ; cyclomethicone ; glyceryl oleate / propylene glycol ; propylene glycol ; purified water ; sodium hydroxide ; sorbitol solution ; white petrolatum ; and white wax .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % in corticosteroid responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor Assay Trials performed with betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % indicate that it is in the high range of potency as demonstrated in vasoconstrictor trials in healthy subjects when compared with other topical corticosteroids .
However , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics No pharmacokinetics trials have been conducted with Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees , are metabolized primarily in the liver , and excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Studies in rabbits , mice , and rats using intramuscular doses up to 1 , 33 , and 2 mg / kg , respectively , resulted in dose - related increases in fetal resorptions in rabbits and mice .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % for the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses have been established in two randomized and active controlled trials in subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis .
A total of 81 subjects who received betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % were included in these trials .
These trials evaluated betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % applied once or twice daily for 14 and 21 days , respectively , on bilateral paired psoriatic lesions .
Betamethasone dipropionate cream ( augmented ) , 0 . 05 % was shown to be effective in relieving the signs and symptoms of chronic plaque psoriasis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % is available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 71205 - 275 - 15 ) Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients of the following : • • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved , unless directed otherwise by the physician .
• • Use no more than 50 grams per week .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• • Advise patients to report any visual symptoms to their healthcare providers .
• • Avoid use of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented ) , 0 . 05 % on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• • Do not occlude the treatment area with bandage or other covering , unless directed by the physician .
• • Note that local reactions and skin atrophy are more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Manufactured By Perrigo , Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 • www . perrigo . com Relabeled By Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Rev 08 - 18 0N200 RC JX2 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx Only NDC 71205 - 275 - 15 Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP ( Augmented * ) , 0 . 05 % ( Potency expressed as Betamethasone ) * Vehicle Augments the Penetration of the Steroid .
For Dermatologic Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
NET WT 15 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
