[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EPIDUO FORTE is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older .
EPIDUO FORTE , is a combination of adapalene , a retinoid , and benzoyl peroxide and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For topical use only .
EPIDUO FORTE is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a thin layer of EPIDUO FORTE to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
• Use a pea - sized amount for each area of the face ( e . g . , forehead , chin , each cheek ) .
• Wash hands after application as EPIDUO FORTE may bleach hair or colored fabrics .
• Avoid the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
• For topical use only • EPIDUO FORTE is not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) • Apply a thin layer of EPIDUO FORTE to affected areas of the face and / or trunk once daily after washing .
( 2 ) • Use a pea - sized amount for each area of the face ( e . g . , forehead , chin , each cheek ) .
( 2 ) • Avoid the eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each gram of EPIDUO FORTE topical gel contains 3 mg ( 0 . 3 % ) adapalene and 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) benzoyl peroxide in a white to very pale yellow , opaque gel .
EPIDUO FORTE is available in pumps containing 15 g , 30 g , 45 g , 60 g or 70 g . Topical Gel , 0 . 3 % / 2 . 5 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EPIDUO FORTE is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in EPIDUO FORTE .
EPIDUO FORTE is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in EPIDUO FORTE .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity : Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and angioedema , have been reported with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
( 5 . 1 ) • Photosensitivity : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear broad spectrum sunscreen and protective clothing when sun exposure cannot be avoided .
( 5 . 2 ) • Skin Irritation : Erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging / burning , irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur with use of EPIDUO FORTE and may necessitate discontinuation .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and urticaria , have been reported with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue EPIDUO FORTE immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
5 . 2 Photosensitivity Avoid exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , during the use of EPIDUO FORTE .
Patients with high levels of sun exposure and those with inherent sensitivity to sun should exercise particular caution .
Use of broad spectrum sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , hat ) are recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , may be irritating to patients under treatment with EPIDUO FORTE .
5 . 3 Skin Irritation / Contact Dermatitis Erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning may be experienced with use of EPIDUO FORTE .
These are most likely to occur during the first four weeks of treatment , are mostly mild to moderate in intensity , and usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Irritant and allergic contact dermatitis may occur .
Depending upon the severity of these adverse reactions , patients should be instructed to use a moisturizer , reduce the frequency of the application of EPIDUO FORTE , or discontinue use .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
As with other retinoids , use of “ waxing ” as a depilatory method should be avoided on skin treated with EPIDUO FORTE .
Avoid concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have strong skin - drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices or limes ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) are skin irritation , eczema , atopic dermatitis and skin burning sensation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Galderma Laboratories , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Skin Irritation / Contact Dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During the randomized , double - blind , vehicle - and active - controlled clinical trial , 217 subjects were exposed to EPIDUO FORTE .
A total of 197 subjects with acne vulgaris , 12 years and older , were treated once daily for 12 weeks .
Adverse reactions reported within 12 weeks of treatment in at least 1 % of subjects treated with EPIDUO FORTE and for which the rate with EPIDUO FORTE exceeded the rate for the vehicle are presented in Table 1 : Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects with Acne Vulgaris in a 12 - week Clinical Trial EPIDUO FORTE ( N = 217 ) Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % ( N = 217 ) Vehicle ( N = 69 ) Skin irritation 4 % < 1 % 0 % Eczema 1 % 0 % 0 % Dermatitis atopic 1 % 0 % 0 % Skin burning sensation 1 % 0 % 0 % Local tolerability evaluations presented in Table 2 , were conducted at each trial visit in the clinical trial by assessment of erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning , which peaked at Week 1 of therapy and decreased thereafter .
Table 2 .
Incidence of Local Cutaneous Irritation in 12 - week Clinical Trial in Subjects with Acne Vulgaris Maximum Severity During Treatment End of Treatment Severity ( Final Score ) Moderate Severe Moderate Severe EPIDUO FORTE ( N = 213 ) Erythema 20 % 1 % 4 % < 1 % Scaling 17 % 1 % 1 % < 1 % Dryness 15 % 2 % 3 % < 1 % Stinging / Burning 19 % 6 % 1 % 1 % Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % ( N = 212 ) Erythema 15 % 1 % 2 % < 1 % Scaling 12 % < 1 % 2 % 0 % Dryness 13 % 1 % 2 % 0 % Stinging / Burning 14 % 9 % 3 % 0 % Vehicle ( N = 68 ) Erythema 6 % 1 % 1 % 0 % Scaling 6 % 0 % 1 % 0 % Dryness 4 % 1 % 1 % 0 % Stinging / Burning 3 % 1 % 0 % 0 % 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of EPIDUO FORTE .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : sunburn , blister ( including vesicles and bullae ) , pruritus , hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation ..
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available pharmacovigilance data with EPIDUO FORTE use in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with the combination gel .
Adapalene gel , 0 . 3 % Available data from clinical trials with adapalene gel 0 . 3 % use in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of adapalene to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at dose exposures 41 and 81 times , respectively , the human exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 g resulted in fetal skeletal and visceral malformations ( see Data ) .
Benzoyl peroxide gel , 2 . 5 % The systemic exposure of benzoyl peroxide is unknown .
Based on published literature , benzoyl peroxide is rapidly metabolized to benzoic acid ( an endogenous substance ) , which is eliminated in the urine .
Hence , maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure of the drug .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No malformations were observed in rats treated with oral adapalene doses of 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 8 times the MRHD of 2 grams of EPIDUO FORTE based on a mg / m2 comparison .
However , malformations were observed in rats and rabbits when treated with oral doses of ≥ 25 mg / kg / day adapalene ( 41 and 81 times the MRHD , respectively , based on a mg / m2 comparison ) .
Findings included cleft palate , microphthalmia , encephalocele , and skeletal abnormalities in rats and umbilical hernia , exophthalmos , and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in rabbits .
Dermal adapalene embryofetal development studies in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 9 . 7 and 19 . 5 times the MRHD , respectively , based on a mg / m2 comparison ) exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in skeletal variations ( supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Adapalene gel , 0 . 3 % There are no data on the presence of adapalene topical gel or its metabolite in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
In animal studies , adapalene is present in rat milk with oral administration of the drug .
When a drug is present in animal milk , it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk .
It is possible that topical administration of large amounts of adapalene could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Benzoyl peroxide gel , 2 . 5 % The systemic exposure of benzoyl peroxide is unknown .
Based on the published literature , benzoyl peroxide is rapidly metabolized to benzoic acid ( an endogenous substance ) , which is eliminated in the urine .
Any amount of benzoyl peroxide excreted into human milk by a nursing mother would be expected to be rapidly metabolized by tissue and stomach esterases .
There are no data on the presence of benzoyl peroxide in human milk , its effects on the breastfed infant or its effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for EPIDUO FORTE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from EPIDUO FORTE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breastmilk , use EPIDUO FORTE on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply EPIDUO FORTE directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of EPIDUO FORTE in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of EPIDUO FORTE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION EPIDUO FORTE ( adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) topical gel , 0 . 3 % / 2 . 5 % is a white to very pale yellow , opaque gel for topical use containing adapalene 0 . 3 % and benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % .
Adapalene , a synthetic retinoid , is a naphthoic acid derivative with retinoid - like properties .
The chemical name for adapalene is ( 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid ) .
It has the following structural formula : Adapalene : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C28H28O3 Molecular weight : 412 . 5 Benzoyl Peroxide is a highly lipophilic oxidizing agent that localizes in both bacterial and keratinocyte cell membranes .
The chemical name for benzoyl peroxide is dibenzoyl peroxide .
It has the following structural formula : Benzoyl Peroxide : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C14H10O4 Molecular weight : 242 . 23 EPIDUO FORTE gel contains the following inactive ingredients : acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , poloxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sorbitan oleate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adapalene Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to cytosolic receptor protein .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization and inflammatory processes .
However , the significance of these findings with regard to the mechanism of action of adapalene for the treatment of acne is unknown .
Benzoyl peroxide Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent with bactericidal and keratolytic effects .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of EPIDUO FORTE is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics A pharmacokinetic trial was conducted in 26 adult and adolescent subjects ( 12 to 33 years of age ) with severe acne vulgaris who were treated with once - daily applications during a 4 - week period with , on average , 2 . 3 grams / day ( range 1 . 6 - 3 . 1 grams / day ) of EPIDUO FORTE applied as a thin layer to the face , shoulders , upper chest and upper back .
After a 4 - week treatment , 16 subjects ( 62 % ) had quantifiable adapalene plasma concentrations above the limit of quantification of 0 . 1 ng / mL , with a mean Cmax of 0 . 16 ± 0 . 08 ng / mL and a mean AUC0 - 24 hr of 2 . 49 ± 1 . 21 ng . h / mL .
The most exposed subject had adapalene Cmax and AUC0 - 24 hr of 0 . 35 ng / mL and 6 . 41 ng . h / mL , respectively .
Excretion of adapalene appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is converted to benzoic acid and eliminated in the urine .
Drug Interactions No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with EPIDUO FORTE .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity , genotoxicity , or fertility studies were conducted with EPIDUO FORTE .
Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene were conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 4 , 1 . 3 , and 4 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 2 , 3 . 9 , and 12 mg / m2 / day ) and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 , 3 . 0 , and 9 . 0 mg / m2 / day ) .
The highest dose levels are 3 . 2 ( mice ) and 2 . 4 ( rats ) times the MRHD of EPIDUO FORTE based on a mg / m2 comparison .
In the rat study , an increased incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas reported in the adrenal medulla of male rats was observed .
No significant increase in tumor formation was observed in rodents topically treated with 15 - 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel ( 6 - 10 times the concentration of benzoyl peroxide in EPIDUO FORTE ) for two years .
Rats received maximum daily applications of 138 ( males ) and 205 ( females ) mg / kg benzoyl peroxide ( 27 - 40 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 comparison ) .
Similar results were obtained in mice topically treated with 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for 56 weeks followed by intermittent treatment with 15 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for rest of the 2 year study period , and in mice topically treated with 5 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel for two years .
Benzoyl peroxide is a tumor promoter in several animal species .
The significance of this finding in humans is unknown .
Adapalene was not mutagenic or genotoxic in vitro ( Ames test , Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , or mouse lymphoma TK assay ) or in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Benzoyl peroxide caused DNA strand breaks and DNA - protein cross - links in mammalian cells , increased sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells , and was mutagenic in a few , but not all , in vitro bacterial mutagenicity assays ( Ames tests ) conducted .
In rat oral studies , 20 mg / kg / day adapalene ( 32 times the MRHD based on a mg / m2 comparison ) did not affect the reproductive performance and fertility of F0 males and females or the growth , development , or reproductive function of F1 offspring .
No fertility studies were conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of EPIDUO FORTE applied once daily for 12 weeks for the treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trial , comparing EPIDUO FORTE to vehicle gel in subjects with acne vulgaris .
The trial also evaluated adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % , a lower strength product than EPIDUO FORTE ( adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) topical gel , 0 . 3 % / 2 . 5 % .
In this trial , 217 subjects were treated with EPIDUO FORTE , 217 subjects with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide , gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % and 69 subjects with the vehicle gel .
Treatment response was defined as the percent of subjects who were rated “ clear ” or “ almost clear ’ at Week 12 with at least a two - grade improvement based on the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) , and mean absolute change from baseline at Week 12 in both inflammatory and non - inflammatory lesion counts .
An IGA score of ‘ Clear ’ corresponded to clear skin with no inflammatory or non - inflammatory lesions .
An IGA score of “ almost clear ” corresponded to a few scattered comedones and a few small papules .
At baseline , 50 % of subjects were graded as “ moderate ” ( IGA Grade 3 ) and 50 % were graded as “ severe ” ( IGA Grade 4 ) on the IGA scale .
Subjects had an average of 98 ( range 51 - 226 ) total lesions of which the mean number of inflammatory lesions was 38 ( range : 20 - 99 ) and the mean number of non - inflammatory lesions was 60 ( range 30 - 149 ) .
Subjects ranged in age from 12 to 57 years , with 273 ( 54 % ) of subjects 12 to 17 years of age .
Approximately equal number of males ( 48 % ) and females ( 52 % ) were enrolled .
The IGA success rate , mean reduction , and percent reduction in acne lesion counts from baseline after 12 weeks of treatment are presented in the following table .
Table 3 .
Clinical Efficacy of EPIDUO FORTE at Week 12 in Subjects with Acne Vulgaris EPIDUO FORTE ( N = 217 ) Adapalene and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % ( N = 217 ) * Vehicle ( N = 69 ) IGA : two - grade improvement and " clear " or " almost clear " 33 . 7 % 27 . 3 % 11 . 0 % Inflammatory lesions : mean absolute ( percent ) reduction 27 . 8 ( 68 . 7 % ) 26 . 5 ( 69 . 3 % ) 13 . 2 ( 39 . 2 % ) Non - inflammatory lesions : mean absolute ( percent ) reduction 40 . 5 ( 68 . 3 % ) 40 . 0 ( 68 . 0 % ) 19 . 7 ( 37 . 4 % ) * This trial was not designed or powered to compare the efficacy of EPIDUO FORTE to the lower strength adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % , nor to compare the lower strength adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel , 0 . 1 % / 2 . 5 % to the vehicle control .
In subjects graded as “ severe ” ( IGA Grade 4 ) , efficacy was observed in the EPIDUO FORTE group .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied EPIDUO FORTE ( adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) gel 0 . 3 % / 2 . 5 % is white to very pale yellow in color and opaque in appearance , and is supplied as follows : 15 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5906 - 15 30 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5906 - 30 45 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5906 - 45 60 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5906 - 60 70 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5906 - 70 16 . 2 Storage and handling • Store at controlled room temperature 20 – 25 ˚ C ( 68 – 77 ˚ F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ˚ – 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ – 86 ˚ F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
• Keep away from heat .
• Protect from light .
• Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that serious hypersensitivity reactions occurred with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
If a patient experiences a serious hypersensitivity reaction , instruct patient to discontinue EPIDUO FORTE immediately and seek medical help [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Photosensitivity Advise patients to minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial light , including tanning beds or UVA / B treatment .
Recommend the use of broad spectrum sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Skin Irritation / Contact Dermatitis Inform patients that EPIDUO FORTE may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging or burning [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Use EPIDUO FORTE on the smallest part of the skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply EPIDUO FORTE directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Administration Instructions • Advise patients to cleanse the area to be treated with a mild or soapless cleanser ; pat dry .
Apply EPIDUO FORTE as a thin layer , avoiding the eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
• Advise patients not to use more than the recommended amount and not to apply more than once daily as this will not produce faster results , but may increase irritation .
• Wash hands after application as EPIDUO FORTE may bleach hair and colored fabric .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Patient Information EPIDUO FORTE ( Ep - E - Do - Oh For - Tay ) ( adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) topical gel Important Information : EPIDUO FORTE is for use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use EPIDUO FORTE in or on your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is EPIDUO FORTE ?
EPIDUO FORTE is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat acne vulgaris .
It is not known whether EPIDUO FORTE is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
Do not use EPIDUO FORTE if you have had an allergic reaction to benzoyl peroxide or any of the ingredients in EPIDUO FORTE .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in EPIDUO FORTE .
Before using EPIDUO FORTE , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have other skin problems , including cuts , abrasions , sunburn or eczema .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EPIDUO FORTE can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if EPIDUO FORTE passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use EPIDUO FORTE .
If you use EPIDUO FORTE while breastfeeding , use EPIDUO FORTE on the smallest area of the skin and for the shortest time needed .
Do not apply EPIDUO FORTE directly to the nipple and the areola to minimize contact with your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use EPIDUO FORTE ?
• Use EPIDUO FORTE exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Apply EPIDUO FORTE 1 time a day .
• Do not use more EPIDUO FORTE than you need to cover the treatment area .
Using too much EPIDUO FORTE or using it more than 1 time a day may increase your chance of skin irritation .
Applying EPIDUO FORTE : • Wash the area where the gel will be applied with a mild or soapless cleanser and pat dry .
• EPIDUO FORTE comes in a pump .
Depress the pump to dispense a small amount ( about the size of a pea ) of EPIDUO FORTE and spread a thin layer over the treatment area .
Use a pea - sized amount for each area of the face ( forehead , chin , and each cheek ) .
• Wash your hands right away after applying the gel .
EPIDUO FORTE may bleach your hair or colored fabrics .
Allow EPIDUO FORTE to dry completely before dressing to prevent bleaching of your clothes .
What should I avoid while using EPIDUO FORTE ?
• Avoid spending time in sunlight or artificial sunlight , such as tanning beds or sunlamps .
EPIDUO FORTE can make your skin sensitive to sun and the light from tanning beds and sunlamps .
Use sunscreen and wear a hat and clothes that cover the areas treated with EPIDUO FORTE if you have to be in sunlight .
• Cold weather and wind may irritate skin treated with EPIDUO FORTE .
• Avoid applying EPIDUO FORTE to cuts , abrasions , and sunburned skin .
• Avoid skin products that may dry or irritate your skin such as medicated or harsh soaps , astringents , cosmetics that make your skin dry , and products containing high levels of alcohol , spices , or limes .
• Avoid the use of “ waxing ” as a hair removal method on skin treated with EPIDUO FORTE .
What are the possible side effects of EPIDUO FORTE ?
EPIDUO FORTE may cause serious side effects including : • Allergic reactions .
Stop using EPIDUO FORTE and get medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms during treatment with EPIDUO FORTE : • hives , rash or severe itching • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue , or throat • trouble breathing or throat tightness • feeling faint , dizzy , or lightheaded • Skin irritation .
Skin irritation is common with EPIDUO FORTE and is most likely to happen during the first 4 weeks of treatment , and usually lessen with continued use of EPIDUO FORTE .
Skin reactions at the treatment area include redness , scaling , dryness , stinging , burning , itching and swelling .
Tell your doctor if you get any skin reactions .
• Sensitivity to sunlight .
See “ What should I avoid while using EPIDUO FORTE ? ”
These are not all of the possible side effects of EPIDUO FORTE .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EPIDUO FORTE ?
• Store EPIDUO FORTE at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep EPIDUO FORTE out of light and away from heat .
Keep EPIDUO FORTE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of EPIDUO FORTE Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EPIDUO FORTE for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EPIDUO FORTE to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about EPIDUO FORTE that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in EPIDUO FORTE ?
Active ingredient : adapalene and benzoyl peroxide Inactive ingredients : acrylamide / sodium acryloydimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , polaxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water and sorbitan oleate Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
For more information , call GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 04 / 2022 LABEL - 45 g Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 0299 - 5906 - 45 EPIDUO ® FORTE ( adapalene and benzoyl peroxide ) Topical Gel 0 . 3 % / 2 . 5 % PUMP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NET WT .
45 g GALDERMA For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Usual dosage : Apply a thin layer once a day to affected areas .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains : Active : adapalene 0 . 3 % and benzoyl peroxide 2 . 5 % in a gel .
Inactive : acrylamide / sodium acryloyldimethyltaurate copolymer , docusate sodium , edetate disodium , glycerin , isohexadecane , poloxamer 124 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sorbitan oleate .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° and 86 ° F ( 15 ° and 30 ° C ) .
See carton closure for lot number and expiration date .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . 14501 North Freeway Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners www . epiduoforte . com P52750 - X
