Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel is applied topically and used in the removal of excessive keratin in hyperkeratotic skin disorders .
Each gram of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel contains salicylic acid 6 % as the active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : hydroxypropylcellulose and propylene glycol .
CHEMICAL STRUCTURE Salicylic acid is the 2 - hydroxy derivative of benzoic acid having the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Salicylic acid has been shown to produce desquamation of the horny layer of skin while not affecting qualitative or quantitative changes in structure of the viable epidermis .
1 , 2 The mechanism of action has been attributed to dissolution of intercellular cement substance .
3 In a study of the percutaneous absorption of salicylic acid from Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel in four patients with extensive active psoriasis , Taylor and Halprin 4 showed that peak serum salicylate levels never exceeded 5 mg / 100 mL even though more than 60 % of the applied salicylic acid was absorbed .
Systemic toxic reactions are usually associated with much higher serum levels ( 30 to 40 mg / 100 mL ) .
Peak serum levels occurred within 5 hours of the topical application under occlusion .
The sites were occluded for 10 hours over the entire body surface below the neck .
Since salicylates are distributed in the extracellular space , patients with a contracted extracellular space due to dehydration or diuretics have higher salicylate levels than those with a normal extracellular space .
5 ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
The major metabolites identified in the urine after topical administration are salicyluric acid ( 52 % ) , salicylate glucuronides ( 42 % ) , and free salicylic acid ( 6 % ) .
4 The urinary metabolites after percutaneous absorption differ from those after oral salicylate administration ; those derived from percutaneous absorption contain more glucuronides and less salicyluric and salicylic acid .
Almost 95 % of a single dose of salicylate is excreted within 24 hours of its entrance into the extracellular space .
5 Fifty to eighty percent of salicylate is protein bound to albumin .
Salicylates compete with the binding of several drugs and can modify the action of these drugs .
By similar competetive mechanisms other drugs can influence the serum levels of salicylate .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the removal of excess keratin in hyperkeratotic disorders , including scaling associated with psoriasis or thickened skin of palms and soles , corns and calluses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel should not be used in any patient known to be sensitive to salicylic acid or any other listed ingredients .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel should not be used in children under 2 years of age .
WARNINGS Contact with eyes , lips , broken or inflamed skin , and all mucous membranes should be avoided .
Prolonged use over large areas , especially in children and those patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment could result in salicylism .
Concomitant use of other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels should be avoided where the potential for toxicity is present .
In children under 12 years of age and those patients with renal or hepatic impairment , the area to be treated should be limited and the patient monitored closely for signs of salicylate toxicity : nausea , vomiting , dizziness , loss of hearing , tinnitus , lethargy , hyperpnoea , diarrhea , psychic disturbances .
In the event of salicylic acid toxicity , the use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel should be discontinued .
Fluids should be administered to promote urinary excretion .
Treatment with sodium bicarbonate ( oral or intravenous ) should be instituted as appropriate .
Considering the potential of developing Reye ’ s syndrome , salicylate products should not be administered to children or teenagers with varicella or influenza , unless directed by a physician .
PRECAUTIONS For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes and other mucous membranes .
Mild burning or stinging may occur .
Peeling of the skin may increase as the salicylic acid works to loosen excess keratin .
If excessive burning , stinging or peeling occurs , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat and open flame .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions .
( The following interactions are from a published review 5 and include reports concerning both oral and topical salicylate administration .
The relationship of these interactions to the use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel is not known . )
I . Due to the competition of salicylate with other drugs for binding to serum albumin the following drug interactions may occur : Drug Description of Interaction Tolbutamide ; Sulfonylureas Hypoglycemia potentiated Methotrexate Decrease tubular reabsorption ; clinical toxicity from methotrexate can result Oral Anticoagulants Increased bleeding II .
Drugs changing salicylate levels by altering renal tubular reabsorption : Drug Description of Interaction Corticosteroids Decreases plasma salicylate level ; tapering doses of steroids may promote salicylism Ammonium Sulfate Increases plasma salicylate level III .
Drugs with complicated interactions with salicylates : Drug Description of Interaction Heparin Salicylate decreases platelet adhesivesness and interferes with hemostasis in heparin - treated patients Pyrazinamide Inhibits pyrazinamide - induced hyperuricemia Uricosuric Agents Effect of probenecid , sulfinpyrazone and phenylbutazone inhibited The following alterations of laboratory tests have been reported during salicylate therapy 6 : Laboratory Tests Effect of Salicylates Thyroid Function Decreased PBI ; increased T 3 uptake Urinary Sugar False negative with glucose oxidase ; false positive with Clinitest with high - dose salicylate therapy ( 2 - 5 g qd ) 5 Hydroxyindole Acetic Acid False negative with fluorometric test Acetone , Ketone Bodies False positive FeCl 3 in Gerhardt reaction ; red color persists with boiling 17 - OH Corticosteroids False reduced values with > 4 . 8 g qd salicylate Vanilmandelic Acid False reduced values Uric Acid May increase or decrease depending on dose Prothrombin Decreased levels ; slightly increased prothrombin time Pregnancy ( Category C ) - Salicylic acid has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and monkeys .
It is difficult to extrapolate from oral doses of acetylsalicylic acid used in these studies to topical administration as the oral dose to monkeys may represent 4 times the maximum daily human dose of salicylic acid ( as supplied in one tube , 40 g of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel ) when applied topically over a large body surface .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether topically applied salicylic acid is excreted in human milk .
Due to the fact that many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised by physicians when administering Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel to nursing mothers and nursing mothers should certainly not apply Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel to the chest area or any other part of the body with which the nursing child ’ s mouth is likely to come in contact .
Because of the potential for serious advers reactions in nursing infants from the mother ’ s use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - No data are available concerning potential carcinogenic or reproductive effects of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel .
It has been shown to lack mutagenic potential in the Ames Salmonella test .
KEEP THIS AND ALL OTHER MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Excessive erythema and scaling conceivably could result from use on open skin lesions .
OVERDOSAGE See WARNINGS DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The preferable method of use is to apply Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel thoroughly to the affected area and occlude the area at night .
Preferably , the skin should be hydrated for at least five minutes prior to application .
The medication is washed off in the morning and if excessive drying and / or irritation is observed a bland cream or lotion may be applied .
Once clearing is apparent , the occasional use of Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel will usually maintain the remission .
In those areas where occlusion is difficult or impossible , application may be made more frequently ; hydration by wet packs or baths prior to application apparently enhances the effect .
Unless hands are being treated , hands should be rinsed thoroughly after application .
HOW SUPPLIED Salicylic Acid 6 % Gel is supplied in a 40 gram plastic tube bearing the NDC Number 42192 - 134 - 40 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP “ Controlled Room Temperature ” ] REFERENCES : • Davies M , Marks R : Br J Dermatol 95 : 187 - 192 , 1976 .
• Mars R , Davies M , Cattel A : J Invest Dermatol 64 : 283 , 1975 .
• Huber C , Christophers E : Arch Derm Res 257 : 293 - 297 , 1977 .
• Taylor JR , Halprin KM : Arch Dermatol 111 : 740 - 743 , 1975 .
• Goldsmith LA : Int J Dermatol 18 : 32 - 36 .
• Wilson JG , Ritter EJ , Scott WJ , Fradlein R : Tox Appl Pharmacol 41 : 67 - 78 , 1977 .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 L - 0079 Rev 1020 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 g container label NDC 42192 - 134 - 40 Salicylic Acid 6 % GEL Rx only Net Wt .
40 g Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
