Drug Facts Active ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 075 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • ♦ simple backache • ♦ arthritis • ♦ strains • ♦ sprains Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use .
TEST FIRST ON SMALL AREA OF SKIN .
Do not use • ♦ on wounds or damaged skin • ♦ if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product • ♦ you may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• ♦ avoid contact with eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • ♦ do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • ♦ do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop and ask a doctor if • ♦ condition worsens or does not improve after regular use • ♦ severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : • ♦ apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed • ♦ unless treating hands , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application • ♦ for best results , apply 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 18 years : ask a doctor Other information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F – 86 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , isopropyl myristate , PEG - 100 stearate , petrolatum , sorbitol , water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 645 - 2158 Distributed by : Rugby Laboratories 17177 N Laurel Park Dr . , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 57 g Tube Carton NDC 0536 - 1118 - 25 Rugby ® COMPARE TO ZOSTRIX ® HP ACTIVE INGREDIENT * HIGH POTENCY ARTHRITIS PAIN RELIEVING CREAM 0 . 075 % CAPSAICIN TOPICAL ANALGESIC Odor Free Formula • Clinically Tested Active Ingredient Net Wt 2 oz ( 57 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
