Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) Proprietary Hydrous Emulsified Base Rx Only DESCRIPTION Topical corticosteroids , such as Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) , constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Each gram of Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) contains 0 . 5 mg of Triamcinolone Acetonide USP in a water - in - oil emulsion composed of Light Mineral Oil NF , Purified Water USP , White Petrolatum USP , Heavy Mineral Oil USP , Mineral Wax , and Lanolin Alcohols NF .
The white ointment is for topical use only .
Triamcinolone Acetonide has the molecular formula of C 24 H 31 FO 6 and is designated chemically as Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
It has a molecular weight of 434 . 50 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of thermal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , substitute a less potent steroid , or use a sequential approach when utilizing the occlusive technique .
Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Occasionally , a patient may develop a sensitivity reaction to a particular occlusive dressing material or adhesive and a substitute material may be necessary .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
These preparations are not for ophthalmic use .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression .
Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone showed negative results .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning , Itching , Irritation , Dryness , Folliculitis , Hypertrichosis , Acneiform eruptions , Hypopigmentation , Perioral dermatitis , Allergic contact dermatitis , Maceration of the skin , Secondary infection , Skin atrophy , Striae and Miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected area two to four times a day .
Occlusive Dressing Technique Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or other recalcitrant conditions .
Apply a thin film of ointment to the lesion , cover with a pliable nonporous film , and seal the edges .
If needed , additional moisture may be provided by covering the lesion with a dampened clean cotton cloth before the nonporous film is applied or by briefly wetting the affected area with water immediately prior to applying the medication .
The frequency of changing dressings is best determined on an individual basis .
It may be convenient to apply Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment under an occlusive dressing in the evening and to remove the dressing in the morning ( i . e . , 12 - hour occlusion ) .
When utilizing the 12 - hour occlusion regimen , additional ointment should be applied , without occlusion , during the day .
Reapplication is essential at each dressing change .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) is supplied in 430 g jars ( NDC 67857 - 806 - 19 ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Promius Pharma , LLC at 1 - 888 - 966 - 8766 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
DISPENSE IN A WELL - CLOSED CONTAINER .
Rx Only For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Distributed by Promius Pharma , LLC Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by : CMP Pharma , Inc .
Farmville , NC 27828 Trianex is a registered trademark of CMP Pharma , Inc .
007850 Revised 0317 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 430 g Jar NDC 67857 - 806 - 19 Trianex ® 0 . 05 % ( Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment , USP ) Proprietary Hydrous Emulsified Base Rx Only 430 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
