Active ingredients Camphor 3 . 1 % Menthol 1 . 25 % Purpose External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds on large parts of the body for extended periods of time on irritated or damaged skin if properties of this product change Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using other medications if pregnant or nursing When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes do not bandage tightly supervise use by children use caution if prone to allergies check carefully for hypersensitivity ( skin reactions ) avoid placing on extremely hairy areas of skin to avoid irritation upon removing the patch Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days excessive irritation of the skin develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs when using for pain of arthritis : pain persists for more than 10 days redness is present in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Clean the affected area .
Remove the paper film from the patch , and place the patch on the affected area , so that the direction of stretch is consistent with joint action .
adults and children 8 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Do not use this product for longer than 8 hours in one day .
children under 8 years of age : do not use , consult your physician Other information keep tightly sealed store at 8 to 30 C ( 46 to 86 F ) , away from sunlight Inactive ingredients aluminum hydroxide , capsicum , cinnamon oil , dong - quai root , erycibe ( Erycibe obtusifolia Benth . )
stem , fragrant angelica root , frankincense oleo - gum - resin , ginger rhizome , glycerin , kadsura pepper [ Piper kadsura ( Choisy ) Ohwi ] stem , kaolin , polyacrylic acid , san - qi ginseng root , stephania ( Stephania sinica Diels . )
root , titanium dioxide , turmeric rhizome , and water on a fabric backing covered with protective paper film .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also report serious side effects to this phone number Gutong Tiegao Hydrogel Pain Relieving Patch NDC 68007 - 301 - 01 6 Patches Each Patch 2 . 75 in x 4 in ( 7 cm x 10 cm ) 2 Patches Per Pouch [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
