Active ingredients ( in each capsule ) Omeprazole 20 mg Sodium Bicarbonate 1100 mg Purpose Acid reducer Allows absorption of this omeprazole product Use • • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn .
This drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect .
Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole Do not use if you have : • • trouble or pain swallowing food • • vomiting with blood • • bloody or black stools These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • a sodium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • your heartburn continues or worsens • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • • you get diarrhea • • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • for adults 18 years of age and older • • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 - Day Course of Treatment • • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water at least 1 hour before eating in the morning • • take every day for 14 days • • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • • do not chew or crush the capsule • • do not open capsule and sprinkle on food • • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 - Day Courses ( if needed ) • • you may repeat a 14 - day course every 4 months • • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • • children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor .
Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • • each capsule contains : sodium 303 mg • • read the directions , warnings and accompanying label information before use • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • tamper - evident : Do not use if the band around the capsule is missing or broken .
Do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing .
• • keep product out of high heat and humidity • • protect product from moisture Inactive ingredients FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C red no . 40 , gelatin , polysorbate 80 , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , sodium stearyl fumarate , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Package / Label Principal Display Panel 3 PACK THREE 14 - DAY COURSES OF TREATMENT Compare to Zegerid OTC ® active ingredients Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules , 20 mg / 1100 mg Acid Reducer Allows Absorption of this Omeprazole Product Treats Frequent Heartburn Actual Size 42 CAPSULES 3 Bottles Inside Three 14 - day courses of treatment [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
