This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Use to help reduce bacteria on skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire , flame and high heat .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Do not ingest or inhale .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Dispense into hands , rub thoroughly until dry .
Other information • Do not store above 110 F ( 43 C ) • May discolor certain fabrics and surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Triethanolamine , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Artemisia Argyi Leaf Extract , Cnidium Monnieri Fruit Extract , Sargassum Fusiforme Extract Package Label - Principal Display Panel 236 mL NDC : 81282 - 047 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
