Warning Do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing .
Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequances .
Active ingredients Camphor 6 . 2 % Purpose Cough suppressant Use temporarily relieves cough associated with a cold Warnings For External use only For steam inhalation only .
Do not take by mouth .
Flammable • keep away from fire or flame Ask a doctor • a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , emphusema or asthma • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • heat • microwave • use near open flame • take by mouth • direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face • add to hot water or any container where heating water excep when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer .
May cause splattering and result in butns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of serious conditions .
Keep out of reach of children .
n case of eye exposure , flush with water .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years and older : use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1 1 / 2 teaspoons of solution for each pint of water • add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer • follow manufacturer ' s directins for using vaporizer • breathe in medicated vapors • may be repeated up to 3 times a day • children uner 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat Inactive ingredients alcohol 82 % , dimethicone , Eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , laureth - 7 , menthol , Myristica fragrans ( nutmeg ) kernel oil , poloxamer 124 , Thuja occidentalis leaf oil ( cedar leaf oil ) Questions 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Side panel claims Compare to Vicks Vapo Steam Active ingredient MEIJER Medicated Vaporizing Steam Liquid Cough Suppressant / Contains Camphor Relieves Cough To Help You Rest Increases The Action Of Steam For Coughs 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) CAUTION : NOT FOR INTERNAL USE disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks Vapo Steam Adverse Reactoions DISTRIBUTED BY : MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC . 2929 WALKER AVE NW , GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com principal display panel Compare to Vicks Vapo Steam active ingredient Meijer Medicated Vaporizing Steam Liquid Cough Suppressant / Contains Camphor Relieves Cough To Help You Rest Increases The Action Of Steam For Coughs 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
