NEUTRA - FOAM Foaming Solution ( 2 . 0 % w / w Neutral Sodium Fluoride ) FOR PROFESSIONAL USE ONLY Active Ingredient : Sodium Fluoride 2 . 0 % w / w ( 0 . 9 % or 9048 ppm fluoride ion ) DESCRIPTION : Oral - B Neutra - Foam is a mint flavored neutral aqueous foaming solution of 2 . 0 % w / w sodium fluoride .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified water , Poloxamer 407 , Isobutane , Poloxamer 234 , Spearmint flavor , Potassium phosphate , Sodium saccharin , Methylparaben , Sodium hydroxide , Propylparaben .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium Fluoride inhibits caries formation by reducing enamel solubility and enhancing remineralization .
INDICATION AND USE : A topically applied foaming solution primarily suited for patients with extensive aesthetic restorations to aid in the prevention of dental caries .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to fluoride .
• Do not use in patients with dysphagia .
WARNINGS : DO NOT SWALLOW .
• Accidental ingestion of the usual treatment dose ( approximately 9 . 0 mg of fluoride ) is not harmful .
In the event more than the treatment dose is swallowed , administer calcium ( e . g . milk ) and get medical or contact a Poison control Center right away .
One bottle of Neutra - Foam contains 1 . 43 grams of fluoride ion which could be lethal for children and adults .
• Keep out of the reach of infants and children under 12 years .
• Pediatric patients under 12 years of age should be supervised during use of this product .
• Avoid spraying towards open flame .
• Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures over 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR PROFESSIONAL USE ONLY .
Safety and effectiveness below age 6 have not been established .
There have been no long term studies with this product to evaluate carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in female and male mice at doses ranging from 2 . 4 to 18 . 8 mg / kg sodium fluoride of body weight ( 3 , 4 ) .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenicity was reported in male rats at doses ranging from 2 . 5 to 4 . 1 mg / kg fluoride , but no evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in female rats ( 3 , 4 ) .
In another study , no carcinogenicity was observed in rats treated with fluoride up to 25 mg / kg of body weight ( 5 ) .
Overall , epidemiological studies do not show an association between fluoridated drinking water and increased cancer risk in humans ( 7 ) .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems but has been associated with genetic aberrations in cultured human cells at doses much higher than expected for human exposure ( 6 , 8 ) .
Some in vivo studies report chromosomal aberrations in rodents while other studies using similar protocols report negative results ( 7 ) .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse reproductive effects of fluoride have been reported in animal studies , but at high concentrations sufficient to produce other manifestations of toxicity ( 9 ) .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Fluoride readily crosses the placenta ( 7 , 9 ) .
Animal studies ( rats and rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen ( 10 , 12 , 13 ) .
Maternal exposure to 18 mg Fluoride / kg of body weight did not affect maternal body weight , litter size or fetal weight and did not increase frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations ( 10 ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Several epidemiological studies show no increase in birth defects in areas with fluoridated water compared to areas with low fluoridated water ( 7 ) .
However , caution should be exercised when fluoride is administered to pregnant women .
Nursing mothers : Due to the relative insensitivity of human milk fluoride levels to changes in maternal fluoride intake , and due to the very low concentrations of fluoride in human milk , fluoride supplementation during lactation would not be expected to significantly affect fluoride intake by the nursing infant ( 11 ) .
However , caution should be exercised when fluoride is administered to nursing women .
Pediatric use : The use of fluoride solutions , gels , and foams containing up to 1 . 23 % fluoride ion as caries preventives in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years is supported by clinical studies in students aged 6 to 12 years ( 1 , 2 ) .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years has not been established .
Please refer to CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
Geriatric use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between geriatric and younger patients .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , therefore the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Developing teeth of children under age 6 may become permanently discolored if excessive amounts are repeatedly swallowed .
The following adverse reactions are possible in individuals hypersensitive to fluoride : eczema , atopic dermatitis , urticaria , gastric distress , headache and weakness .
In patients with mucositis , gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to the flavor .
OVERDOSAGE : Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride can result in acute irritation of the mouth and gastrointestinal tract as well as the development of gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , hematemesis epigastric cramping and abdominal pain .
If a large amount of fluoride equal to or greater than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) is ingested , give calcium ( e . g . milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium solution ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A standard treatment dose of Neutra - Foam contains approximately 9 . 0 mg fluoride .
One 165 g ( 5 . 8 oz ) bottle contains approximately 1 . 43 g of fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults and Children 6 years and over : Use foam 2 times a year .
The initial time you dispense from a new bottle , gently lift upward on the nozzle to break the protective seal ( thin plastic tab located adjacent to trigger ) .
If this seal is broken do not use product .
When breaking this seal , there could be an initial surge of foam from the dispenser .
• Shake bottle vigorously for 3 - 4 seconds prior to dispensing .
• Invert bottle 180 ° with nozzle tip pointed downward into tray .
• Place nozzle tip close to the tray floor and at one end of the tray arch .
Moving from one end of the tray to the other in one fluid motion , slowly press down on the trigger .
( Note : foam will expand slightly to fill the tray . )
• Do not use excessive finger pressure which could result in too much foam being dispensed .
• Immediately place tray ( s ) in mouth .
( Note : Do not fill trays with foam too far in advance of treatment as the foam will collapse and not be as effective . )
• Have patient bite down on the tray ( s ) lightly but firmly for up to 4 minutes .
• Remove tray ( s ) and have patient expectorate .
• Instruct patient not to eat , drink , or rinse for at least 30 minutes .
For optimal tooth coverage , use a fluoride applicator tray which is deep enough to reach the entire vertical height of all teeth ( even the molars ) .
You can choose from single arch trays ( such as CENTRAYS ) or dual arch trays ( CENTWINS or SOFTWINS ) .
HOW SUPPLIED : Neutra - Foam is available in a 5 . 8 oz ( 165 g ) plastic aerosol container in mint flavor .
NDC 0041 - 0348 - 06 .
REFERENCES : ( 1 . )
Wellock , W . D . and Brudevold , F . : Arch .
Oral Biol . , 10 , 453 - 460 ( 1965 ) ( 2 . )
Jiang , H et al . : J . Dent , 33 , 469 - 473 ( 2005 ) ( 3 . )
National Toxicology Program : NTP TR 393 , NIH Publication 91 - 2842 , ( 1990 ) ( 4 . )
Bucker , J . R . et al . : Int .
J . Cancer 48 , 733 - 737 ( 1991 ) ( 5 . )
Maurer , J . K . et al . : J . Natl . Cancer Inst .
82 , 1118 - 1126 ( 1990 ) ( 6 ) Martin , G . R . et al . : Mutat .
Res .
66 , 159 - 167 ( 1979 ) ( 7 . )
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry : Toxicological Profile for Fluoride ( 2003 ) ( 8 . )
Aardema , M . J . et al . : Mutat .
Res .
331 ( 1 ) , 171 - 172 ( 9 . )
National Research Council : Fluoride in Drinking Water ( 2006 ) ( 10 . )
Heindel , J . J . et al . : Fundam Appl Toxicol , 30 , 162 - 177 ( 1996 ) ( 11 . )
Institute of Medicine , Food and Nutrition Board : Dietary Reference Intakes ( 1997 ) ( 12 . )
Collins , T . F . et al . : Food Chem .
Toxicol .
33 ( 11 ) , 951 - 960 ( 13 . )
Collins , T . F . et al . : Food Chem Toxicol .
39 ( 8 ) , 867 - 876 Minute Foam Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
