Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Dimethicone , Mica , Cetearyl glucoside , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Alcohol , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Actinidia chinensis ( Kiwi ) fruit water , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Citric acid , Panax ginseng root extract , Sophora angustifolia root extract , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Ascorbic acid , Potassium hydroxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Silica , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Description Skincare System No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum tackles the appearance of 3 main signs of ageing : wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone in 4 weeks with skin looking younger and brighter from day one .
Skin firming complex containing Vitamin A , Peptides and an antioxidant complex to help improve skin texture and provide smoother and firmer feeling skin .
Independently proven to reduce the appearance of dark spots with a unique ant - ageing complex , it also works to reduce the appearance of wrinkles and leave the skin feeling firmer .
No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System Look visibly younger with this complete skincare regime Reveal lifted and firmer - feeling skin Key benefits After 4 weeks Lift and Luminate Day Cream SPF15 helps prevent sunburn Skin feels firmer and noticeably more radiant Lift and Luminate Night Cream Intensely moisturising and hydrating Skin feels firmer and more even - toned Day and Night Serum Targets the appearance of 3 key signsof visible ageing : wrinkles , lack of firmness and uneven skin tone Skin feels firmer , appears more even toned and wrinkles appear reduced Lift and Luminate Skincare System A daily skincare regime to visibly lift , even skin tone and improve the appearance of lines and wrinkles No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream SPF 15 Improved formulation contains brightening technology from our clinically proven Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum .
It effectively targets the 3 key signs of visble ageing : 1 ) Lines and wrinkles 2 ) Lack of firmness 3 ) Uneven skin tone .
In 2 weeks wrinkles are visibly reduced , skin appears lifted and skin tone is more even .
To use : After cleansing and applying Lift and Luminate Day Serum , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 Lift and Luminate Night Cream This rich , intensively moisturising formula has been designed to work over - night , effectively nourishing and improving the appearance of your skin .
Contains brightening technology from our clinically proven Day and Night Serum .
It effectively targets the 3 key signs of visible ageing : 1 ) Lines and wrinkles 2 ) Lack of firmness 3 ) Uneven skin tone In 4 weeks wrinkles are visibly reduced , skin appears lifted and skin tone is more even .
To use : Just before bedtime , after cleansing and applying Lift and Luminate Night Serum , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum targets the appearance of 3 key sighns of visble ageing : wrinkles , lack of firmness and uneven skin tone .
During the day , our skin brightening complex is designed to help diminish the appearance of age spots , and our firming complex to help provide smoother and firmer looking skin .
At night , a PHA is included to help exfoliate the skin ' s surface for a revitalised and more even skin tone .
To use : Smooth the day serum into your face every morning .
Smooth the night serum into your face every evening .
Follow with your Lift and Luminate Day or Night Cream Description Lift and Luminate Skincare System The No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System targets 3 key signs of ageing in mature skin : wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone .
With Peptide technology to help deliver visible firming benefits to your skin in as little as 4 weeks .
Key Ingredients Matrixyl 300 and retinyl palmitate ( pro - retinol ) to help reduce the appearance of wrinkles and provide firmer feeling skin .
Sophora and kiwi extracts to help provide a more even skin tone enhanced by a Poly - hydroxyacid in the night serum .
Vitamin C , Ginseng and Mulberry ( antioxidant complex ) target free radicals that can lead to premature ageing Shea Butter moisturises and nourishes the skin , leaving it softer and smoother .
Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF15 ( Day Cream ) helps to provide protection against the ageing effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures .
What is the No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System An advanced skincare system consistin of a day and a night serum , a day cream and a night cream for firmer feeling and more radiant looking skin in just 4 weeks .
Suitable for all skin types , it is ideal for those with deeper lines and wrinkles who are looking for a more youthful skin appearance .
How do I use it Smooth No7 Lift and Luminate Day Serum onto face and neck with your finger tips , followed by No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream .
At nigh follow your No7 Lift and Luminate Night Serum application with No7 Lift and Luminate Night Cream to moisturise and improve the appearance of deeper lines and wrinkles while you sleep .
What should I use with these products To complete your beauty regime use No7 Lift and Luminate Eye Cream specially developed to help brighten , smooth and leave delicate skin around the eyes feeling firmer Day Cream and Night Cream Made in the UK Day Serum and Night Serum Made in Germany The Boots Company PLC Nottingham NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 1005 USA Questions 1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS / www . shopbootsusa . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
