Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride 99 . 5 mg Purpose Urinary tract analgesic Use Relief from urinary pain , burning , urgency and frequency associated with urinary tract infections .
Treatment should not exceed 2 days ; see Directions Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage Do not use if you have Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency unless approved by your physician .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • allergies to foods , preservatives or dyes • had a hypersensitive reaction to Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride When using this product • stomach upset may occur , taking this product with or after meals may reduce stomach upset • your urine will become reddish - orange in color .
This is not harmful , but care should be taken to avoid staining clothing or other items .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your symptoms last for more than 2 days • you suspect you are having an adverse reaction to the medication .
Long - term administration of Phenazopyridine HCl has induced neoplasia in rats ( large intestine ) and mice ( liver ) .
Although no association between Phenazopyridine HCl and human neoplasia has been reported , adequate epidemiological studies along these lines have not been conducted .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
A pregnancy test and consultation with a health professional if pregnancy is confirmed is recommended prior to use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of an overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 12 years and over : Take 2 tablets 3 times daily with or after meals as needed for up to two days .
Take with a full glass of water .
Do not use for more than 2 days ( 12 tablets ) without consulting a doctor • Children under 12 years : Do not use without consulting a doctor Other information • This product can interfere with laboratory tests including urine , glucose ( sugar ) , and ketones tests • This product may stain contact lenses and other items if handled after touching tablets .
• Store at room temperature between 20ºC - 25ºC ( 68ºF - 77ºF ) in a dry place and protect from light .
Inactive ingredients colloidal silicone dioxide , gum acacia extra pure , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , maize starch , polyethylene glycol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , propylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate .
Questions ?
1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Compare to the active ingredient in AZO ® Urinary Pain Relief Maximum Strength * maximum strength UTI pain reliever available without a prescription † up & up † Among our over - the - counter urinary pain relief products TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF PACKAGE IS OPENED OR IF BLISTER UNIT IS TORN , BROKEN OR SHOWS ANY SIGNS OF TAMPERING READ AND KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION 245 03 0248 R01 C - 002016 - 01 - 009 Dist .
by Target Corp . , Mpls . , MN 55403 Product of India TM & © 2023 Target Brands , Inc .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by i - Health Inc . , distributor of AZO ® Urinary Pain Relief WARNING : This product can expose you to Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride , which is known to the state of California to cause cancer .
For more Information , visit www . P65Warnings . ca . gov Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
