* Potency expressed as oxiconazole Rx Only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY — NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC OR INTRAVAGINAL USE DESCRIPTION OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Cream , 1 % and OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % formulations contain the antifungal active compound oxiconazole nitrate .
Both formulations are for topical dermatologic use only .
Chemically , oxiconazole nitrate is 2 ' , 4 ' - dichloro - 2 - imidazol - 1 - ylacetophenone ( Z ) - [ 0 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl ) oxime ] , mononitrate .
The compound has the molecular formula C18H13ON3CI4 · HNO3 , a molecular weight of 492 . 15 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxiconazole nitrate is a nearly white crystalline powder , soluble in methanol ; sparingly soluble in ethanol , chloroform , and acetone ; and very slightly soluble in water .
OXISTAT ® Cream contains 10 mg of oxiconazole per gram of cream in a white to off - white , opaque cream base of purified water USP , white petrolatum USP , stearyl alcohol NF , propylene glycol USP , polysorbate 60 NF , cetyl alcohol NF , and benzoic acid USP 0 . 2 % as a preservative .
OXISTAT ® Lotion contains 10 mg of oxiconazole per gram of lotion in a white to off - white , opaque lotion base of purified water USP , white petrolatum USP , stearyl alcohol NF , propylene glycol USP , polysorbate 60 NF , cetyl alcohol NF , and benzoic acid USP 0 . 2 % as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics : The penetration of oxiconazole nitrate into different layers of the skin was assessed using an in vitro permeation technique with human skin .
Five hours after application of 2 . 5 mg / cm2 of oxiconazole nitrate cream onto human skin , the concentration of oxiconazole nitrate was demonstrated to be 16 . 2 μmol in the epidermis , 3 . 64 μmol in the upper corium , and 1 . 29 μmol in the deeper corium .
Systemic absorption of oxiconazole nitrate is low .
Using radiolabeled drug , less than 0 . 3 % of the applied dose of oxiconazole nitrate was recovered in the urine of volunteer subjects up to 5 days after application of the cream formulation .
Neither in vitro nor in vivo studies have been conducted to establish relative activity between the lotion and cream formulations .
Microbiology : Oxiconazole nitrate is an imidazole derivative whose antifungal activity is derived primarily from the inhibition of ergosterol biosynthesis , which is critical for cellular membrane integrity .
It has in vitro activity against a wide range of pathogenic fungi .
Oxiconazole has been shown to be active against most strains of the following organisms both in vitro and in clinical infections at indicated body sites ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) : • Epidermophyton floccosum • Trichophyton mentagrophytes • Trichophyton rubrum • Malassezia furfur The following in vitro data are available ; however , their clinical significance is unknown .
Oxiconazole exhibits satisfactory in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) against most strains of the following organisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of oxiconazole in treating clinical infections due to these organisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : • Candida albicans • Microsporum audouini • Microsporum canis • Microsporum gypseum • Trichophyton tonsurans • Trichophyton violaceum INDICATIONS AND USAGE OXISTAT ® Cream and Lotion are indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , or Epidermophyton floccosum .
OXISTAT ® Cream is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor due to Malassezia furfur ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
OXISTAT ® Cream may be used in pediatric patients for tinea corporis , tinea cruris , tinea pedis , and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor ; however , these indications for which OXISTAT ® Cream has been shown to be effective rarely occur in children below the age of 12 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS OXISTAT ® Cream and Lotion are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of their components .
WARNINGS OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Cream , 1 % and OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % are not for ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
PRECAUTIONS General : OXISTAT ® Cream and Lotion are for external dermal use only .
Avoid introduction of OXISTAT ® Cream or Lotion into the eyes or vagina .
If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of OXISTAT ® Cream or Lotion , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
If signs of epidermal irritation should occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Information for Patients : The patient should be instructed to : • 1 .
Use OXISTAT ® as directed by the physician .
The hands should be washed after applying the medication to the affected area ( s ) .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and other mucous membranes .
OXISTAT ® is for external use only .
• 2 .
Use the medication for the full treatment time recommended by the physician , even though symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 2 to 4 weeks , or sooner if the condition worsens ( see below ) .
• 3 .
Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing .
• 4 .
Avoid the use of occlusive dressings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• 5 .
Do not use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
Drug Interactions : Potential drug interactions between OXISTAT ® and other drugs have not been systematically evaluated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Although no long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no evidence of mutagenic effect was found in 2 mutation assays ( Ames test and Chinese hamster V79 in vitro cell mutation assay ) or in 2 cytogenetic assays ( human peripheral blood lymphocyte in vitro chromosome aberration assay and in vivo micronucleus assay in mice ) .
Reproductive studies revealed no impairment of fertility in rats at oral doses of 3 mg / kg / day in females ( 1 time the human dose based on mg / m2 ) and 15 mg / kg / day in males ( 4 times the human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
However , at doses above this level , the following effects were observed : a reduction in the fertility parameters of males and females , a reduction in the number of sperm in vaginal smears , extended estrous cycle , and a decrease in mating frequency .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits , rats , and mice at oral doses up to 100 , 150 , and 200 mg / kg / day ( 57 , 40 , and 27 times the human dose based on mg / m2 ) , respectively , and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to oxiconazole nitrate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because oxiconazole is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when the drug is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : OXISTAT ® Cream may be used in pediatric patients for tinea corporis , tinea cruris , tinea pedis , and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor ; however , these indications for which OXISTAT ® Cream has been shown to be effective rarely occur in children below the age of 12 .
Geriatric Use : A limited number of patients at or above 60 years of age ( n ~ 396 ) have been treated with OXISTAT ® Cream in US and non - US clinical trials , and a limited number ( n = 43 ) have been treated with OXISTAT ® Lotion in US clinical trials .
The number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety .
No adverse events were reported with OXISTAT ® Lotion in geriatric patients , and the adverse reactions reported with OXISTAT ® Cream in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of OXISTAT ® Cream and Lotion in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials , of 955 patients treated with oxiconazole nitrate cream , 1 % , 41 ( 4 . 3 % ) reported adverse reactions thought to be related to drug therapy .
These reactions included pruritus ( 1 . 6 % ) ; burning ( 1 . 4 % ) ; irritation and allergic contact dermatitis ( 0 . 4 % each ) ; folliculitis ( 0 . 3 % ) ; erythema ( 0 . 2 % ) ; and papules , fissure , maceration , rash , stinging , and nodules ( 0 . 1 % each ) .
In a controlled , multicenter clinical trial of 269 patients treated with oxiconazole nitrate lotion , 1 % , 7 ( 2 . 6 % ) reported adverse reactions thought to be related to drug therapy .
These reactions included burning and stinging ( 0 . 7 % each ) and pruritus , scaling , tingling , pain , and dyshidrotic eczema ( 0 . 4 % each ) .
OVERDOSAGE When 5 % oxiconazole cream ( 5 times the concentration of the marketed product ) was applied at a rate of 1 g / kg to approximately 10 % of body surface area of a group of 40 male and female rats for 35 days , 3 deaths and severe dermal inflammation were reported .
No overdoses in humans have been reported with use of oxiconazole nitrate cream or lotion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION OXISTAT ® Cream or Lotion should be applied to affected and immediately surrounding areas once to twice daily in patients with tinea pedis , tinea corporis , or tinea cruris .
OXISTAT ® Cream should be applied once daily in the treatment of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor .
Tinea corporis , tinea cruris , and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor should be treated for 2 weeks and tinea pedis for 1 month to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Note : Tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor may give rise to hyperpigmented or hypopigmented patches on the trunk that may extend to the neck , arms , and upper thighs .
Treatment of the infection may not immediately result in restoration of pigment to the affected sites .
Normalization of pigment following successful therapy is variable and may take months , depending on individual skin type and incidental sun exposure .
Although tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor is not contagious , it may recur because the organism that causes the disease is part of the normal skin flora .
CLINICAL STUDIES The following definitions were applied to the clinical and microbiological outcomes in patients enrolled in the clinical trials that form the basis for the approvals of OXISTAT ® Lotion and OXISTAT ® Cream .
Definitions : • 1 .
Mycological Cure : No evidence ( culture and KOH preparation ) of the baseline ( original ) pathogen in a specimen from the affected area taken at the 2 - week post - treatment visit ( for tinea [ pityriasis ] versicolor , mycological cure was limited to KOH only ) .
• 2 .
Treatment Success : Both a global evaluation of 90 % clinical improvement and a microbiologic eradication ( see above ) at the 2 - week post - treatment visit .
Tinea Pedis : THERE ARE NO HEAD - TO - HEAD COMPARISON TRIALS OF THE OXISTAT ® CREAM AND LOTION FORMULATIONS IN THE TREATMENT OF TINEA PEDIS .
Lotion Formulation : The clinical trial for the lotion formulation line extension involved 332 evaluable patients with clinically and microbiologically established tinea pedis .
Of these evaluable patients , 64 % were diagnosed with hyperkeratotic plantar tinea pedis and 28 % with interdigital tinea pedis .
Seventy - seven percent ( 77 % ) had disease secondary to infection with Trichophyton rubrum , 18 % had disease secondary to infection with Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and 4 % had disease secondary to infection with Epidermophyton floccosum .
The results of this clinical trial at the 2 - week post - treatment follow - up visit are shown in the following table : OXISTAT ® Lotion Patient Outcome b . i . d . q . d . Vehicle Mycological cure 67 % 64 % 28 % Treatment success 41 % 34 % 10 % In this study , the improvement and cure rates of the b . i . d . - and q . d . - treated groups did not differ significantly ( 95 % confidence interval ) from each other but were statistically ( 95 % confidence interval ) superior to the vehicle - treated group .
Cream Formulation : The two pivotal trials for the cream formulation involved 281 evaluable patients ( total from both trials ) with clinically and microbiologically established tinea pedis .
The combined results of these 2 clinical trials at the 2 - week post - treatment follow - up visit are shown in the following table : OXISTAT ® Cream Patient Outcome b . i . d . q . d . Vehicle Mycological cure 77 % 79 % 33 % Treatment success 52 % 43 % 14 % All the improvement and cure rates of the b . i . d . - and q . d . - treated groups did not differ significantly ( 95 % confidence interval ) from each other but were statistically ( 95 % confidence interval ) superior to the vehicle - treated group .
In addition , pediatric data ( 95 children ages 10 and under ) available with the cream formulation indicate that it is safe and effective for use in children when used as directed .
Adverse events were reported in 2 children ; 1 child was reported to have reddening of the skin and 1 child was reported to have eczema - like skin alterations .
Tinea ( pityriasis ) Versicolor : Two pivotal clinical trials of OXISTAT ® Cream in tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor involved 219 evaluable patients in the q day OXISTAT ® and vehicle arms of the trial with clinical and mycological evidence of tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor .
Patients were treated for 2 weeks with OXISTAT ® Cream once daily , or with cream vehicle .
The combined results of these clinical trials at the 2 - week post - treatment follow - up visit are shown in the following table .
These results are based on 207 patients ( 110 in the OXISTAT ® group and 97 in the vehicle group ) with efficacy evaluations at this visit .
OXISTAT ® Cream Patient Outcome q . d . Vehicle Mycological cure 88 % 67 % Treatment success 83 % 62 % Only once a day was shown in both studies to be statistically superior to vehicle for all efficacy parameters at 2 weeks and follow - up .
HOW SUPPLIED OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Cream , 1 % is supplied in : • 30 - g tubes ( NDC 10337 - 358 - 30 ) , • 60 - g tubes ( NDC 10337 - 358 - 60 ) , and • 90 - g tubes ( NDC 10337 - 358 - 90 ) .
Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
OXISTAT ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % is supplied in : • 30 - mL bottle ( NDC 10337 - 359 - 30 ) • 60 - mL bottle ( NDC 10337 - 359 - 60 ) .
Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
Shake well before using .
PharmaDerm ® A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , NY 11747 USA www . pharmaderm . com I8358F / IF8358F R01 / 12 # 178 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 G CONTAINER PharmaDerm ® NDC 10337 - 358 - 30 Oxistat ® Cream , 1 % * ( oxiconazole nitrate cream ) * Potency expressed as oxiconazole .
For Topical Dermatologic Use ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 G CARTON PharmaDerm ® NDC 10337 - 358 - 30 Oxistat ® Cream , 1 % * ( oxiconazole nitrate cream ) * Potency expressed as oxiconazole .
For Topical Dermatologic Use ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel 30 mL Container PharmaDerm ® NDC 10337 - 359 - 30 Oxistat ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % * * Potency expressed as oxiconazole .
For Topical Dermatologic Use ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only 30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel 30 mL Carton PharmaDerm ® NDC 10337 - 359 - 30 Oxistat ® ( oxiconazole nitrate ) Lotion , 1 % * * Potency expressed as oxiconazole .
For Topical Dermatologic Use ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic or Intravaginal Use .
Rx only 30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
