Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antiginvitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop Use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 year of age - consult a dentsit or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 26 . 9 % , benzoic acid , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , caramel Adverse reaction section Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign components shop target . com Guest Services 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine ADA Council Statement " The ADA Council on Scientifice Affairs Acceptance of Up & Up Antiseptic Mouth Rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed " principal display panel SAFETY SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION ADA Accepted American Dental Association antiseptic mouthwash Antigingivitis / Antiplaque Compare to Listerine Antiseptic Original Kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque and the gum disease gingivitis ORIGINAL FLAVOR up & up 50 . 7 FL OZ ( 1 . 5 L ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
