Active Ingredient ( s ) BUTYLENE GLYCOL ( 5 % ) , NIACINAMIDE ( 3 % ) , ALPHA - ARBUTIN ( 2 . 5 % ) , SODIUM ASCORBYL PHOSPHATE ( 2 % ) , BUTYROSPERMUM PARKII ( SHEA BUTTER ) OIL ( 1 . 2 % ) Purpose Dark spot corrector Use Use toner to moisturize Then , Take an appropriate amount of this product and apply it on the face , massage gently until absorbed Warnings 1 .
Best to use in the morning and evening .
2 .
Recommended to use with an Sunscreen and moisture product .
Do not use / HOW TO USE ?
1 .
Wash your face with facial cleanser 2 .
Use toner to moisturize 3 .
Then , Take an appropriate amount of this product and apply it on the face , massage gently until absorbed 4 .
After wiping this product during the day , it is best to apply some sunscreen Stop use andask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs . These maybe signs of a serious condition .
Avoid contact with eyes . In case of accidental splash into eyes , please wash with clean water . Keep out of reach of infants and young children .
Directions （ ATTENTION ：） 1 .
Best to use in the morning and evening .
2 .
Recommended to use with an Sunscreen and moisture product .
3 .
Avoid contact with eyes . In case of accidental splash into eyes , please wash with clean water . Keep out of reach of infants and young children .
4 .
Stop use andask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs . These maybe signs of a serious condition .
Other information / Inactive ingredients Water , butylene Glycol , dimethicone , cetearyl Alcohol caprylic / capric Triglyceride , niacinamide , isononyl Isononanoate , alpha - ar butin , Pentylene Glycol , glycereth - 26 , sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , butyrospermum Parkii ( shea Butter ) Oil , echium Plan tagineum Seed Oil , helianthus Annuus ( sunflower ) Seed OilUnsaponifiabl - es , cardiospermumHalicacaBum Flower / leaf / vine Extract , aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , portulaca Oleracea Extract , camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , allantoin , beta - glucan , glucose , Tocopherolpeg - 100 Stearate , hydroxyethyl Acrylate / sodiu - m AcryloyldimEthyl Taurate Co - polymer , glyceryl Stearate , cetearyl Glucoside , octyldodecanol , glycerin , dimethiconol , ethylhexyl glycerin , cyclotetra siloxane , maltodextrin , ectoin , citric Acid , parfum , phenoxy ethano , methylparaben , Propyl - paraben , sodium Benzoate , potassium Sorbate , sorbic Acid .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 81940 - 001 - 01 50 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
