DESCRIPTION Aminocaproic acid , USP is 6 - aminohexanoic acid , which acts as an inhibitor of fibrinolysis .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aminocaproic acid is soluble in water , acid , and alkaline solutions ; it is sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in chloroform .
Each Aminocaproic Acid Tablet USP , for oral administration contains 500 mg of aminocaproic acid and the following inactive ingredients : povidone , crospovidone , stearic acid , and magnesium stearate .
FDA approved dissolution specification differs from the USP dissolution specification .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The fibrinolysis - inhibitory effects of aminocaproic acid appear to be exerted principally via inhibition of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree through antiplasmin activity .
In adults , oral absorption appears to be a zero - order process with an absorption rate of 5 . 2 g / hr .
The mean lag time in absorption is 10 minutes .
After a single oral dose of 5 g , absorption was complete ( F = 1 ) .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations ( 164 ± 28 mcg / mL ) were reached within 1 . 2 ± 0 . 45 hours .
After oral administration , the apparent volume of distribution was estimated to be 23 . 1 ± 6 . 6 L ( mean ± SD ) .
Correspondingly , the volume of distribution after intravenous administration has been reported to be 30 . 0 ± 8 . 2 L .
After prolonged administration , aminocaproic acid has been found to distribute throughout extravascular and intravascular compartments of the body , penetrating human red blood cells as well as other tissue cells .
Renal excretion is the primary route of elimination .
Sixty - five percent of the dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug and 11 % of the dose appears as the metabolite adipic acid .
Renal clearance ( 116 mL / min ) approximates endogenous creatinine clearance .
The total body clearance is 169 mL / min .
The terminal elimination half - life for aminocaproic acid is approximately 2 hours .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Aminocaproic acid is useful in enhancing hemostasis when fibrinolysis contributes to bleeding .
In life - threatening situations , transfusion of appropriate blood products and other emergency measures may be required .
Fibrinolytic bleeding may frequently be associated with surgical complications following heart surgery ( with or without cardiac bypass procedures ) and portacaval shunt ; hematological disorders such as amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia ( accompanying aplastic anemia ) ; acute and life - threatening abruption placentae ; hepatic cirrhosis ; and neoplastic disease such as carcinoma of the prostate , lung , stomach , and cervix .
Urinary fibrinolysis , usually a normal physiological phenomenon , may contribute to excessive urinary tract fibrinolytic bleeding associated with surgical hematuria ( following prostatectomy and nephrectomy ) or nonsurgical hematuria ( accompanying polycystic or neoplastic diseases of the genitourinary system ) .
( See WARNINGS . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Aminocaproic acid should not be used when there is evidence of an active intravascular clotting process .
When there is uncertainty as to whether the cause of bleeding is primary fibrinolysis or disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) , this distinction must be made before administering aminocaproic acid .
The following tests can be applied to differentiate the two conditions : • Platelet count is usually decreased in DIC but normal in primary fibrinolysis .
• Protamine paracoagulation test is positive in DIC ; a precipitate forms when protamine sulfate is dropped into citrated plasma .
The test is negative in the presence of primary fibrinolysis .
• The euglobulin clot lysis test is abnormal in primary fibrinolysis but normal in DIC • Aminocaproic acid must not be used in the presence of DIC without concomitant heparin .
WARNINGS In patients with upper urinary tract bleeding , aminocaproic acid administration has been known to cause intrarenal obstruction in the form of glomerular capillary thrombosis or clots in the renal pelvis and ureters .
For this reason , aminocaproic acid should not be used in hematuria of upper urinary tract origin , unless the possible benefits outweigh the risk .
Subendocardial hemorrhages have been observed in dogs given intravenous infusions of 0 . 2 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid and in monkeys given 8 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid .
Fatty degeneration of the myocardium has been reported in dogs given intravenous doses of aminocaproic acid at 0 . 8 to 3 . 3 times the maximum human therapeutic dose and in monkeys given intravenous doses of aminocaproic acid at 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose .
Rarely , skeletal muscle weakness with necrosis of muscle fibers has been reported following prolonged administration .
Clinical presentation may range from mild myalgias with weakness and fatigue to a severe proximal myopathy with rhabdomyolysis , myoglobinuria , and acute renal failure .
Muscle enzymes , especially creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) are elevated .
CPK levels should be monitored in patients on long - term therapy .
Aminocaproic acid administration should be stopped if a rise in CPK is noted .
Resolution follows discontinuation of aminocaproic acid ; however , the syndrome may recur if aminocaproic acid is restarted .
The possibility of cardiac muscle damage should also be considered when skeletal myopathy occurs .
One case of cardiac and hepatic lesions observed in man has been reported .
The patient received 2 g of aminocaproic acid every 6 hours for a total dose of 26 g . Death was due to continued cerebrovascular hemorrhage .
Necrotic changes in the heart and liver were noted at autopsy .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Aminocaproic acid inhibits both the action of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree , plasmin activity .
The drug should NOT be administered without a definite diagnosis and / or laboratory finding indicative of hyperfibrinolysis ( hyperplasminemia ) . 1 Inhibition of fibrinolysis by aminocaproic acid may theoretically result in clotting or thrombosis .
However , there is no definite evidence that administration of aminocaproic acid has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting which followed this treatment .
Rather , it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely due to the patient ' s preexisting clinical condition , e . g . , the presence of DIC .
It has been postulated that extravascular clots formed in vivo may not undergo spontaneous lysis as do normal clots .
Reports have appeared in the literature of an increased incidence of certain neurological deficits such as hydrocephalus , cerebral ischemia , or cerebral vasospasm associated with the use of antifibrinolytic agents in the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) .
All of these events have also been described as part of the natural course of SAH , or as a consequence of diagnostic procedures such as angiography .
Drug relatedness remains unclear .
Aminocaproic acid should not be administered with Factor IX Complex concentrates or Anti - Inhibitor Coagulant concentrates , as the risk of thrombosis may be increased .
LABORATORY TESTS The use of aminocaproic acid should be accompanied by tests designed to determine the amount of fibrinolysis present .
There are presently available : ( a ) general tests such as those for the determination of the lysis of a clotof blood or plasma ; and ( b ) more specific tests for the study of various phases of the fibrinolytic mechanisms .
These latter tests include both semiquantitative and quantitative techniques for the determination of profibrinolysin , fibrinolysin , and antifibrinolysin .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prolongation of the template bleeding time has been reported during continuous intravenous infusion of aminocaproic acid at dosages exceeding 24 g / day .
Platelet function studies in these patients have not demonstrated any significant platelet dysfunction .
However , in vitro studies have shown that at high concentrations ( 7 . 4 mMol / L or 0 . 97 mg / mL and greater ) aminocaproic acid inhibits ADP and collagen - induced platelet aggregation , the release of ATP and serotonin , and the binding of fibrinogen to the platelets in a concentration - response manner .
Following a 10 g bolus of aminocaproic acid , transient peak plasma concentrations of 4 . 6 mMol / L or 0 . 60 mg / mL have been obtained .
The concentration of aminocaproic acidnecessary to maintain inhibition of fibrinolysis is 0 . 99 mMol / L or 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Administration of a 5 g bolus followed by 1 to 1 . 25 g / hr should achieve and sustain plasma levels of 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Thus , concentrations which have been obtained in vivo clinically in patients with normal renal function are considerably lower than the in vitro concentrations found to induce abnormalities in platelet function tests .
However , higher plasma concentrations of aminocaproic acid may occur in patients with severe renal failure .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of aminocaproic acid and studies to evaluate its mutagenic potential have not been conducted .
Dietary administration of an equivalent of the maximum human therapeutic dose of aminocaproic acid to rats of both sexes impaired fertility as evidenced by decreased implantations , litter sizes and number of pups born .
PREGNANCY Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with aminocaproic acid .
It is also not known whether aminocaproic acid can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Aminocaproic acid should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when aminocaproic acid is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Aminocaproic acid is generally well tolerated .
The following adverse experiences have been reported : General : Edema , headache , malaise .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions , anaphylaxis .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , thrombosis .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , coagulation disorder , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Musculoskeletal : CPK increased , muscle weakness , myalgia , myopathy ( see WARNINGS ) , myositis , rhabdomyolysis .
Neurologic : Confusion , convulsions , delirium , dizziness , hallucinations , intracranial hypertension , stroke , syncope .
Respiratory : Dyspnea , nasal congestion , pulmonary embolism .
Skin : Pruritis , rash .
SpecialSenses : Tinnitus , visiondecreased , watery eyes .
Urogenital : BUN increased , renal failure .
There have been some reports of dry ejaculation during the period of aminocaproic acid treatment .
These have been reported to date only in hemophilia patients who received the drug after undergoing dental surgical procedures .
However , this symptom resolved in all patients within 24 to 48 hours of completion of therapy .
ToreportSUSPECTEDADVERSEREACTIONS , contactEdenbridge Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 877 - 381 - 3336 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE A dosage regimen may be followed by administering Aminocaproic Acid Tablets as follows : For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 10 Aminocaproic Acid Tablets USP , 500 mg ( 5 g ) be administered during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing rate of 2 Aminocaproic Acid Tablets USP , 500 mg ( 1 g ) per hour .
This method of treatment would ordinarily be continued for about 8 hours or until the bleeding situation has been controlled .
HOW SUPPLIED Aminocaproic Acid Tablets USP , 500 mg Each round , convex , white to off - white tablet scored on one side and imprinted with on the other side , contains 500 mg of Aminocaproic acid , USP .
Bottle of 30 – NDC 42799 054 02 Storeat 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; Dispense in Tight Containers .
REFERENCES 1 Stefanini M , Dameshek W : The Hemorrhagic Disorders , Ed .
2 , New York , Grune and Stratton ; 1962 : 510 - 514 .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
