FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
This product is also available without a prescription .
Rx Only DESCRIPTION CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % contains 10 mg clotrimazole USP , a synthetic antifungal agent having the chemical name 1 - ( o - Chloro - α , α - diphenylbenzyl ) imidazole with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MOLECULAR FORMULA C22H17CIN2 MOLECULAR WEIGHT 344 . 85 Clotrimazole is an odorless , white crystalline substance .
It is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in ether and very soluble in polyethylene glycol 400 , ethanol , and chloroform .
Each mL of CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % contains 10 mg clotrimazole USP in a nonaqueous vehicle of polyethylene glycol 400 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clotrimazole is a broad - spectrum antifungal agent that is used for the treatment of dermal infections caused by various species of pathogenic dermatophytes , yeasts , and Malassezia furfur .
The primary action of clotrimazole is against dividing and growing organisms .
In vitro , clotrimazole exhibits fungistatic and fungicidal activity against isolates of Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , and Candida species including Candida albicans .
In general , the in vitro activity of clotrimazole corresponds to that of tolnaftate and griseofulvin against the mycelia of dermatophytes ( Trichophyton , Microsporum , and Epidermophyton ) , and to that of the polyenes ( amphotericin B and nystatin ) against budding fungi ( Candida ) .
Using an in vivo ( mouse ) and an in vitro ( mouse kidney homogenate ) testing system , clotrimazole and miconazole were equally effective in preventing the growth of the pseudomycelia and mycelia of Candida albicans .
Strains of fungi having a natural resistance to clotrimazole are rare .
Only a single isolate of Candida guilliermondi has been reported to have primary resistance to clotrimazole .
No single - step or multiple - step resistance to clotrimazole has developed during successive passages of Candida albicans and Trichophyton mentagrophytes .
No appreciable change in sensitivity was detected after successive passages of isolates of C . albicans , C . krusei , or C . pseudotropicalis in liquid or solid media containing clotrimazole .
Also , resistance could not be developed in chemically induced mutant strains of polyene - resistant isolates of C . albicans .
Slight , reversible resistance was noted in three isolates of C . albicans tested by one investigator .
There is a single report that records the clinical emergence of a C . albicans strain with considerable resistance to flucytosine and miconazole , and with cross - resistance to clotrimazole ; the strain remained sensitive to nystatin and amphotericin B .
In studies of the mechanism of action , the minimum fungicidal concentration of clotrimazole caused leakage of intracellular phosphorus compounds into the ambient medium with concomitant breakdown of cellular nucleic acids and accelerated potassium efflux .
Both these events began rapidly and extensively after addition of the drug .
Clotrimazole appears to be well absorbed in humans following oral administration and is eliminated mainly as inactive metabolites .
Following topical and vaginal administration , however , clotrimazole appears to be minimally absorbed .
Six hours after the application of radioactive clotrimazole 1 % cream and 1 % solution onto intact and acutely inflamed skin , the concentration of clotrimazole varied from 100 mcg / cm3 , in the stratum corneum to 0 . 5 to 1 mcg / cm3 in the stratum reticulare , and 0 . 1 mcg / cm3 in the subcutis .
No measurable amount of radioactivity ( ≤ 0 . 001 mcg / mL ) was found in the serum within 48 hours after application under occlusive dressing of 0 . 5 mL of the solution or 0 . 8 g of the cream .
Only 0 . 5 % or less of the applied radioactivity was excreted in the urine .
Following intravaginal administration of 100 mg 14 C - clotrimazole vaginal tablets to nine adult females , an average peak serum level , corresponding to only 0 . 03 µg equivalents / mL of clotrimazole , was reached 1 to 2 days after application .
After intravaginal administration of 5 g of 1 % 14 C - clotrimazole vaginal cream containing 50 mg active drug , to five subjects ( one with candidal colpitis ) , serum levels corresponding to approximately 0 . 01 µg equivalents / mL were reached between 8 and 24 hours after application .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prescription CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION product is indicated for the topical treatment of candidiasis due to Candida albicans and tinea versicolor due to Malassezia furfur .
This formulation is also available as a nonprescription product which is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton fluoccosum , and Microsporum canis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical antifungal agents are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION is not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of clotrimazole , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
The patient should be advised to : • Use the medication for the full treatment time even though the symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 4 weeks of treatment .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , oozing ) indicative of possible sensitization .
• Avoid sources of infection or reinfection .
Laboratory Tests If there is lack of response to clotrimazole , appropriate microbiological studies should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens before instituting another course of antimycotic therapy .
Drug Interactions Synergism or antagonism between clotrimazole and nystatin , or amphotericin B , or flucytosine against strains of C . albicans has not been reported .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month oral dosing study with clotrimazole in rats has not revealed any carcinogenic effect .
In tests for mutagenesis , chromosomes of the spermatophores of Chinese hamsters which had been exposed to clotrimazole were examined for structural changes during the metaphase .
Prior to testing , the hamsters had received five oral clotrimazole doses of 100 mg / kg body weight .
The results of this study showed that clotrimazole had no mutagenic effect .
Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B The disposition of 14 C - clotrimazole has been studied in humans and animals .
Clotrimazole is very poorly absorbed following dermal application or intravaginal administration to humans .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
In clinical trials , use of vaginally applied clotrimazole in pregnant women in their second and third trimesters has not been associated with ill effects .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Studies in pregnant rats with intravaginal doses up to 100 mg / kg have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to clotrimazole .
High oral doses of clotrimazole in rats and mice ranging from 50 to 120 mg / kg resulted in embryotoxicity ( possibly secondary to maternal toxicity ) , impairment of mating , decreased litter size and number of viable young and decreased pup survival to weaning .
However , clotrimazole was not teratogenic in mice , rabbits and rats at oral doses up to 200 , 180 and 100 mg / kg , respectively .
Oral absorption in the rat amounts to approximately 90 % of the administered dose .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used only if clearly indicated during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clotrimazole is used by a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established for clotrimazole when used as indicated and in the recommended dosage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of clotrimazole : erythema , stinging , blistering , peeling , edema , pruritius , urticaria , burning , and general irritation of the skin .
OVERDOSAGE Acute overdosage with topical application of clotrimazole is unlikely and would not be expected to lead to a life - threatening situation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently massage sufficient CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
Clinical improvement , with relief of pruritus , usually occurs within the first week of treatment with CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % .
If the patient shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment with CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
HOW SUPPLIED CLOTRIMAZOLE TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 1 % is supplied in 30 mL plastic bottles ( NDC 51672 - 1260 - 3 ) ; boxes of one .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Mfd .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , CANADA L6T 1C1 Dist by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : December , 2012 PK - 6729 - 1 59 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Carton 30 mL NDC 51672 - 1260 - 3 Clotrimazole Topical Solution USP , 1 % FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
