Drug Facts Active ingredients Benzocaine ......................... 2 % Menthol ............................. 0 . 5 % Cetylpyridinium Chloride ..... 0 . 1 % Purposes Oral Anesthetic Oral Anesthetic Oral Antiseptic Uses : • For temporary relief of occasional minor sore throat pain and dry , scratchy throat .
• For the temporary relief of pain associated with canker sores , minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums , minor dental procedures , minor irritations caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances .
Warnings : Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energyDo not exceed recommended dosage .
Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics . If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Sore throat warning : if sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or if irritation , pain , or redness persist or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not use • in or near eyes • for teething • in children under 2 years of age If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
In the event of accidental contact with eyes , flush immediately with water and continuously for 10 minutes .
Seek immediate medical attention if pain persists .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : adults and Children 2 years of age or older : spray Actisep several times to affected area in mouth or lips .
Do not use more than 4 times a day .
children between 2 and 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
children under 2 years of age : do not use As a gargle or mouthwash , Adults and Children 12 years and over , place ½ teaspoon ( 2 . 5 mL ) in ½ glass of warm water several times a day .
Do not use more than 4 times a day .
Inactive ingredients : Castor oil , methylparaben , propylparaben , propylene glycol , purified water , sucralose .
Other information : Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if heat seal under cap is torn , broken or missing .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Questions or comments ?
( 787 ) 608 - 0882 Contains the same active ingredients as Orasep ® Spray * ANTISEPTIC • ANESTHETIC Alcohol Free Manufactured in the USA for ActiPharma , Inc .
Dorado , PR 00646 * Orasep ® Spray is a registered trademark of Llorens Pharmaceutical Corp .
This product is not manufactured , distributed or marketed by Llorens Pharmaceutical Corp .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
