Rx only DESCRIPTION : Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride is an antihistamine drug having the chemical name 2 - ( diphenylmethoxy ) - N , N - dimethylethylamine hydrochloride .
It occurs as a white , odorless crystalline powder and is freely soluble in water and alcohol .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule contains 50 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride for oral administration .
Inactive Ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate .
The 50 mg capsule shell contains D & C red no . 28 , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C red no . 40 , gelatin , silicon dioxide and sodium lauryl sulfate .
The imprinting ink contains D & C yellow no . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C blue no . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C red no . 40 aluminum lake , pharmaceutical glaze , propylene glycol and synthetic black iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative effects .
Antihistamines appear to compete with histamine for cell receptor sites on effector cells .
A single oral dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is quickly absorbed with maximum activity occurring in approximately one hour .
The duration of activity following an average dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is from four to six hours .
Diphenhydramine is widely distributed throughout the body , including the CNS .
Little , if any , is excreted unchanged in the urine ; most appears as the degradation products of metabolic transformation in the liver , which are almost completely excreted within 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride in the oral form is effective for the following indications : Antihistaminic : For allergic conjunctivitis due to foods ; mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema ; amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma ; dermatographism ; as therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled .
Motion Sickness : For active and prophylactic treatment of motion sickness .
Antiparkinsonism : For parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in the elderly unable to tolerate more potent agents ; mild cases of parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in other age groups ; in other cases of parkinsonism ( including drug - induced ) in combination with centrally acting anticholinergic agents .
Nighttime sleep - aid .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Use in Newborn or Premature Infants : This drug should not be used in newborn or premature infants .
Use in Nursing Mothers : Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally , and for newborns and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers .
Antihistamines are also contraindicated in the following conditions : Hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure .
WARNINGS : Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with narrow - angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , or bladder - neck obstruction .
Use in Children : In infants and children , especially , antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations , convulsions , or death .
As in adults , antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in children .
In the young child , particularly , they may produce excitation .
Use in Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) : Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has an atropine - like action and therefore should be used with caution in patients with a history of lower respiratory disease including asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease or hypertension .
Information for Patients : Patients taking diphenhydramine hydrochloride should be advised that this drug may cause drowsiness and has an additive effect with alcohol .
Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Drug Interactions : Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc ) .
MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to determine mutagenic and carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 5 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequent adverse reactions are underscored .
• General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose and throat .
• Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
• Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
• Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , neuritis , convulsions .
• GI System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
• GU System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
• Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
Overdosage : Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
Stimulation is particularly likely in children .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms , dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously the patient should be induced to vomit .
This is best done by having him drink a glass of water or milk after which he should be made to gag .
Precautions against aspiration must be taken , especially in infants and children .
If vomiting is unsuccessful gastric lavage is indicated within 3 hours after ingestion and even later if large amounts of milk or cream were given beforehand .
Isotonic or ( ½ ) isotonic saline is the lavage solution of choice .
Saline cathartics , as milk of magnesia , by osmosis draw water into the bowel and therefore are valuable for their action in rapid dilution of bowel content .
Stimulants should not be used .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
A single oral dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is quickly absorbed with maximum activity occurring in approximately one hour .
The duration of activity following an average dose of diphenhydramine hydrochloride is from four to six hours .
ADULTS : 25 to 50 mg three or four times daily .
The nighttime sleep - aid dosage is 50 mg at bedtime .
CHILDREN : ( over 20 lb ) : 12 . 5 to 25 mg three to four times daily .
Maximum daily dosage not to exceed 300 mg .
For physicians who wish to calculate the dose on the basis of body weight or surface area , the recommended dosage is 5 mg / kg / 24 hours or 150 mg / m2 / 24 hours .
Data are not available on the use of diphenhydramine hydrochloride as a nighttime sleep - aid in children under 12 years .
The basis for determining the most effective dosage regimen will be the response of the patient to medication and the condition under treatment .
In motion sickness , full dosage is recommended for prophylactic use , the first dose to be given 30 minutes before exposure to motion and similar doses before meals and upon retiring for the duration of exposure .
HOW SUPPLIED : Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride Capsules , USP are supplied by Contract Pharmacy Services - PA as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 67046 - 127 - 30 50 mg 30 Capsules in a Blister Pack PINK 0555 - 0059 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
MANUFACTURED BY BARR LABORATORIES , INC .
POMONA , NY 10970 Repackaged by : Contract Pharmacy Services - PA 125 Titus Ave Suite 200 Warrington , PA 18976 USA Original -- 08 / 2010 -- NJW Label Image 50 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
