Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicyclic acid 2 % Purpose Acne Medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water • With other topical acne medications , at the same time or immediately following use of this product , increased dryness or irritation of the skin may occur .
If this occurs , only one acne medication should be used unless directed by your doctor • Limit use to the face and neck Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 applications daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • Store in a cool , dry place • Keep outer packaging for precautions and directions Inactive ingredients Water , Butylene Glycol , Octyldodecanol , Steareth - 2 , Cetyl Alcohol , Steareth - 21 , Dimethicone , Polyacrylamide Glycerin , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Hydroxide , Xanthan Gum , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Laureth - 7 , Fragrance , Lavandula Stoechas Extract , Helichrysum Italicum Extract , Cistus Monspeliensis Extract , Methylparaben , Butylparaben , Ethylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Propylparaben , Titanium Dioxide Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 38 . 4 mL Tube Carton Clearasil ® ULTRA ® Overnight Face Lotion Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication Helps visibly reduce pimple size and redness overnight 1 . 3 FL .
OZ .
( 38 . 4 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
