HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use HYLENEX recombinant safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for HYLENEX recombinant .
HYLENEX recombinant ( hyaluronidase human injection ) for infiltration use , for interstitial use , for intramuscular use , for intraocular use , for peribulbar use , retrobulbar use , for soft tissue use and for subcutaneous use Initial U . S . Approval : 2005 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HYLENEX recombinant is an endoglycosidase indicated as an adjuvant in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration ( 1 . 1 ) to increase the dispersion and absorption of other injected drugs ( 1 . 2 ) in subcutaneous urography for improving resorption of radiopaque agents ( 1 . 3 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See Full Prescribing Information for all approved routes of administration .
Subcutaneous fluid administration : Inject 150 U HYLENEX recombinant prior to subcutaneous fluid administration .
It will facilitate absorption of 1 , 000 mL or more of solution .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
The rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
( 2 . 2 Increasing dispersion and absorption of injected or subcutaneously infused drugs : Inject 50 - 300 U ( most typically 150 U ) HYLENEX recombinant prior to drug administration .
Alternatively , add 50 - 300 U ( most typically 150 U ) HYLENEX recombinant to the injection solution .
( 2 . 3 ) Subcutaneous Urography : Inject 75 U HYLENEX recombinant subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
( 2 . 4 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 150 USP units / mL single dose vials ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Spread of Localized Infection ( 5 . 1 ) Ocular Damage ( 5 . 2 ) Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic and anaphylactic - like reactions have been reported , rarely .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Halozyme Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 877 - 1679 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Furosemide , the benzodiazepines and phenytoin are incompatible with hyaluronidase .
( 7 . 1 ) Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the dispersion and absorption of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs .
( 7 . 2 ) Local anesthetics : Hyaluronidase hastens onset and shortens duration of effect , increases incidence of systemic reactions .
( 7 . 3 ) Large doses of salicylates , cortisone , ACTH , estrogens or antihistamines may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect .
( 7 . 4 ) USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
Special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid over hydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 4 , 14 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 2 / 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 1 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration 1 . 2 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs 1 . 3 Subcutaneous Urography 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions 2 . 2 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration 2 . 3 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs 2 . 4 Subcutaneous Urography 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Spread of Localized Infection 5 . 2 Ocular Damage 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Incompatibilities 7 . 2 Drug - Specific Precautions 7 . 3 Local Anesthetics 7 . 4 Salicylates , Cortisone , ACTH , Estrogens and Antihistamines 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Labor and Delivery 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Important Precautions Regarding HYLENEX recombinant 17 . 2 What Patients Should Know About Adverse Reactions 17 . 3 Patients Should Inform Their Doctors If Taking Other Medications * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS & USAGE 1 . 1 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration HYLENEX recombinant is indicated as an adjuvant in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration .
1 . 2 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs HYLENEX recombinant is indicated as an adjuvant to increase the dispersion and absorption of other injected drugs .
1 . 3 Subcutaneous Urography HYLENEX recombinant is indicated as an adjunct in subcutaneous urography for improving resorption of radiopaque agents .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions HYLENEX recombinant should not be administered intravenously .
Its effects relative to dispersion and absorption of other drugs are not produced when it is administered intravenously because the enzyme is rapidly inactivated .
HYLENEX recombinant may be administered for infiltration use , interstitial use , intramuscular use , intraocular use , peribulbar use , retrobulbar use , soft tissue use or subcutaneous use .
Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Always use aseptic precautions .
Lightly pinch the skin up into a small mound and insert the needle / catheter into the subcutaneous space .
Inject HYLENEX recombinant through the catheter hub or injection port closest to the needle / catheter .
Begin administration of solution .
Solution should start in readily .
2 . 2 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration Inject 150 U of HYLENEX recombinant prior to start of subcutaneous fluid administration to facilitate absorption of up to 1 , 000 mL or more of solution .
As with all parenteral fluid therapy , observe effect closely , with the same precautions for restoring fluid and electrolyte balance as in intravenous injections .
The dose , the rate of injection , and the type of solution ( saline , glucose , Ringer ' s , etc . ) must be adjusted carefully to the individual patient .
When solutions devoid of inorganic electrolytes are administered subcutaneously , hypovolemia may occur .
This may be prevented by using solutions containing adequate amounts of inorganic electrolytes and / or controlling the volume and speed of administration .
HYLENEX recombinant may be added to small volumes of solution , such as fluid replacement solutions or solutions of drugs for subcutaneous injection .
Subcutaneous fluids should be administered as directed by a physician .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
The rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
2 . 3 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs Hylenex can be used to enhance the dispersion and absorption of other injected or subcutaneously infused drugs by pre - administration of HYLENEX recombinant or by adding 50 - 300 U , most typically 150 U hyaluronidase , to the injection solution prior to infiltration use , interstitial use , intramuscular use , intraocular use , retrobulbar use , soft tissue use or subcutaneous use .
2 . 4 Subcutaneous Urography The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic contrast media may be considered when intravenous administration cannot be successfully accomplished , particularly in infants and small children .
With the patient prone , inject 75 U of HYLENEX recombinant subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS 150 USP units / mL single dose vials 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HYLENEX recombinant is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase or any of the excipients in HYLENEX recombinant .
A preliminary skin test for hypersensitivity to HYLENEX recombinant can be performed .
The skin test is made by an intradermal injection of approximately 0 . 02 mL ( 3 Units ) of a 150 Unit / mL solution .
A positive reaction consists of a wheal with pseudopods appearing within 5 minutes and persisting for 20 to 30 minutes and accompanied by localized itching .
Transient vasodilation at the site of the test , i . e . , erythema , is not a positive reaction .
Discontinue HYLENEX recombinant if sensitization occurs .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Spread of Localized Infection Hyaluronidase should not be injected into or around an infected or acutely inflamed area because of the danger of spreading a localized infection .
Hyaluronidase should not be used to reduce the swelling of bites or stings .
5 . 2 Ocular Damage Hyaluronidase should not be applied directly to the cornea .
It is not for topical use .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of hyaluronidase products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been mild local injection site reactions such as erythema and pain .
Hyaluronidase has been reported to enhance the adverse reactions associated with co - administered drug products .
Edema has been reported most frequently in association with subcutaneous fluid administration .
Allergic reactions ( urticaria or angioedema ) have been reported in less than 0 . 1 % of patients receiving hyaluronidase .
Anaphylactic - like reactions following retrobulbar block or intravenous injections have occurred , rarely .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS It is recommended that appropriate references be consulted regarding physical or chemical incompatibilities before adding HYLENEX recombinant to a solution containing another drug .
7 . 1 Incompatibilities Furosemide , the benzodiazepines and phenytoin have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
Admixture stability studies have shown that 2 % lidocaine with 1 : 100 , 000 or 1 : 200 , 000 epinephrine is incompatible with hyaluronidase due to the presence of sodium metabisulfite , a common additive in anesthetic products containing epinephrine .
7 . 2 Drug - Specific Precautions Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the dispersion and absorption of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs .
When considering the administration of any other drug with hyaluronidase , it is recommended that appropriate references first be consulted to determine the usual precautions for the use of the other drug .
7 . 3 Local Anesthetics When hyaluronidase is added to a local anesthetic agent , it hastens the onset of analgesia and tends to reduce the swelling caused by local infiltration , but the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution increases its absorption ; this shortens its duration of action and tends to increase the incidence of systemic reaction .
7 . 4 Salicylates , Cortisone , ACTH , Estrogens and Antihistamines Patients receiving large doses of salicylates , cortisone , ACTH , estrogens or antihistamines may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect , since these drugs apparently render tissues partly resistant to the action of hyaluronidase .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
In an embryo - fetal study , mice have been dosed daily by subcutaneous injection with recombinant human hyaluronidase at dose levels up to 2 , 200 , 000 U / kg .
The study found no evidence of teratogenicity .
Reduced fetal weight and increased numbers of fetal resorptions were observed , with no effects found at a daily dose of 360 , 000 U / kg , which represents several orders of magnitude over the suggested human dose range of 50 - 300 U of HYLENEX recombinant ( 0 . 8 - 5 U / kg in a 60 kg subject ) .
In a pre - and postnatal development study , mice have been dosed daily by subcutaneous injection with recombinant human hyaluronidase at dose levels up to 1 , 100 , 000 U / kg .
The study found no adverse effects on sexual maturation , learning and memory of offspring , or their ability to produce another generation of offspring .
It is also not known whether HYLENEX recombinant can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
HYLENEX recombinant should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Administration of hyaluronidase during labor was reported to cause no complications : no increase in blood loss or differences in cervical trauma were observed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether hyaluronidase is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when hyaluronidase is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Clinical hydration requirements for children can be achieved through administration of subcutaneous fluids facilitated with HYLENEX recombinant .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
The potential for chemical or physical incompatibilities should be kept in mind [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
The rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
During subcutaneous fluid administration , special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid over hydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION HYLENEX recombinant is a purified preparation of the enzyme recombinant human hyaluronidase .
HYLENEX recombinant is produced by genetically engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells containing a DNA plasmid encoding for a soluble fragment of human hyaluronidase ( PH20 ) .
The purified hyaluronidase glycoprotein contains 447 amino acids with an approximate molecular weight of 61 , 000 Daltons .
HYLENEX recombinant is supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless , nonpreserved , ready - for - use solution .
Each mL contains 150 USP units of recombinant human hyaluronidase with 8 . 5 mg sodium chloride , 1 . 4 mg dibasic sodium phosphate , 1 mg albumin human , 1 . 5 mg L - methionine , 0 . 2 mg polysorbate 80 , and hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide added for pH adjustment .
HYLENEX recombinant has an approximate pH of 7 . 0 and an osmolality of 280 to 340 mOsm / kg .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hyaluronidase is a dispersion agent , which modifies the permeability of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronic acid , a polysaccharide found in the intercellular ground substance of connective tissue , and of certain specialized tissues , such as the umbilical cord and vitreous humor .
Hyaluronic acid is also present in the capsules of type A and C hemolytic streptococci .
Hyaluronidase hydrolyzes hyaluronic acid by splitting the glucosaminidic bond between C1 of an N - acetylglucosamine moiety and C4 of a glucuronic acid moiety .
This temporarily decreases the viscosity of the cellular cement and promotes dispersion of injected fluids or of localized transudates or exudates , thus facilitating their absorption .
Hyaluronidase cleaves glycosidic bonds of hyaluronic acid and , to a variable degree , some other acid mucopolysaccharides of the connective tissue .
The activity is measured in vitro by monitoring the decrease in the amount of an insoluble serum albumin - hyaluronic acid complex as the enzyme cleaves the hyaluronic acid component .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In the absence of hyaluronidase , material injected subcutaneously disperses very slowly .
Hyaluronidase facilitates dispersion , provided local interstitial pressure is adequate to furnish the necessary mechanical impulse .
Such an impulse is normally initiated by injected solutions .
The rate and extent of dispersion and absorption is proportionate to the amount of hyaluronidase and the volume of solution .
The reconstitution of the dermal barrier removed by intradermal injection of hyaluronidase ( 20 , 2 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 02 , and 0 . 002 U / mL ) to adult humans indicated that at 24 hours the restoration of the barrier is incomplete and inversely related to the dosage of hyaluronidase ; at 48 hours , the barrier is completely restored in all treated areas .
Results from an experimental study , in humans , on the influence of hyaluronidase in bone repair support the conclusion that hyaluronidase alone , in the usual clinical dosage , does not deter bone healing .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the disappearance of injected hyaluronidase is limited .
It is known , however , that the components in blood of a number of mammalian species bring about the inactivation of hyaluronidase .
Studies have demonstrated that hyaluronidase is antigenic ; repeated injections of relatively large amounts of hyaluronidase preparations may result in the formation of neutralizing antibodies .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Hyaluronidase is found in most tissues of the body .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of hyaluronidase .
Human studies on the effect of intravaginal hyaluronidase in sterility due to oligospermia indicated that hyaluronidase may have aided conception .
Thus , it appears that hyaluronidase may not adversely affect fertility in females .
In addition , when recombinant human hyaluronidase was administered to cynomolgus monkeys for 39 weeks at dose levels up to 220 , 000 U / kg , no evidence of toxicity to the male or female reproductive system was found through periodic monitoring of in - life parameters , e . g . , semen analyses , hormone levels , menstrual cycles , and also from gross pathology , histopathology and organ weight data .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES HYLENEX recombinant facilitated the administration of subcutaneous fluids in pediatric patients with mild to moderate dehydration in an open - label , multicenter , single arm study in fifty - one ( 51 ) patients .
A subcutaneous injection of 1 mL ( 150 U ) of HYLENEX recombinant was immediately followed by subcutaneous infusion of isotonic fluids in either the mid - anterior thigh or the inter - scapular area of the upper back .
The safety and flow rate of subcutaneously administered Lactated Ringer ' s ( LR ) solution with and without HYLENEX recombinant was evaluated in a prospective , randomized , double - blinded , placebo - controlled , within - subject , single - center study in fifty - four ( 54 ) healthy volunteers .
The mean HYLENEX recombinant facilitated infusion rate was 464 mL / hr versus 118 mL / hr for the saline control ( p < 0 . 001 , paired t - test ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING HYLENEX recombinant is supplied sterile as 150 USP units of nonpreserved recombinant human hyaluronidase per mL in a single - use glass vial .
HYLENEX recombinant is supplied in the following packaging : 1 mL Single Dose Vial ( NDC 18657 - 117 - 01 ) available in boxes of 4 ( NDC 18657 - 117 - 04 ) Store unopened in a refrigerator at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
DO NOT FREEZE .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Important Precautions Regarding HYLENEX recombinant Instruct patient that HYLENEX recombinant is being used to increase the dispersion and absorption of fluids or other injected drugs , as appropriate to the intended use .
Instruct patient that there may be mild local injection site signs and symptoms , such as redness , swelling , itching , or pain localized to the site of injection .
17 . 2 What Patients Should Know About Adverse Reactions Patients should be advised that the most frequently reported adverse reactions have been mild local injection site reactions such as redness , swelling , itching , or pain .
Anaphylactic - like reactions , and allergic reactions , such as hives , have been reported rarely in patients receiving hyaluronidases .
17 . 3 Patients Should Inform Their Doctors If Taking Other Medications Instruct patients that they may not receive furosemide , the benzodiazepines , phenytoin , dopamine and / or alpha agonists with HYLENEX recombinant .
These medications have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
Patients should be advised that if they are taking salicylates ( e . g . , aspirin ) , steroids ( e . g . , cortisone or estrogens ) , or antihistamines , they may need to be prescribed larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION Hylenex , the Hylenex logo and Halozyme Therapeutics are trademarks of Halozyme , Inc .
U . S . Patent Nos . 7 , 767 , 429 , 8 , 202 , 517 , 8 , 431 , 124 and 8 , 431 , 380 Manufactured for and Marketed by : Halozyme Therapeutics , Inc . , San Diego , CA 92121 For Product Inquiry : 1 855 495 - 3639 Rev . February 2016 LBL301 - 05 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1555 - 1 1 mL Vial NDC 51662 - 1555 - 1 Hylenex ® 1 mL ( hyaluronidase human injection ) 150 USP units / mL NOT FOR IV USE REFRIGERATE Rx only Single Dose Vial 51662 - 1555 - 1 Serialized Box Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
