This preparation is designed solely for parenteral use , only after addition of drugs that require dilution or must be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle prior to injection .
Sterile Water for Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection , which contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer , and is supplied only in single - dose containers to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection .
For intravenous injection , dissolve sufficient solute to make an approximately isotonic solution .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
pH 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
The plastic single - dose vial is fabricated from polypropylene resin .
The plastic vials feature a twist - off cap which , when removed , allows access to a luer - lock fitting for connection to a luer - lock syringe .
The twist - off cap is a one - time use tamper evident feature , and the container vial cannot be reclosed once the cap is removed .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water for distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
The small volume of fluid provided by Sterile Water for Injection when used only as a pharmaceutical aid for diluting or dissolving drugs for parenteral injection , is unlikely to exert a significant effect on fluid balance except possibly in neonates or very small infants .
This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous , intramuscular , or subcutaneous injection , according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered .
Sterile Water for Injection must be made approximately isotonic prior to use .
Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis .
Do not use for intravenous injection unless the osmolar concentration of additives results in an approximate isotonic admixture .
Consult the manufacturer ’ s instructions for choice of vehicle , appropriate dilution , or volume for dissolving the drugs to be injected , including the route and rate of injection .
Inspect reconstituted ( diluted or dissolved ) drugs for clarity ( if soluble ) and freedom from unexpected precipitation or discoloration prior to administration .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sterile Water for Injection .
It is not known whether sterile water containing additives can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or affect reproduction capacity .
Sterile Water for Injection with additives should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Safety and effectiveness have been established in pediatric patients .
However , in neonates or very small infants , the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Some drugs for injection may be incompatible in a given vehicle , when combined in the same vehicle , or in a vehicle containing benzyl alcohol .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
Use aseptic technique for withdrawal from the container .
When diluting or dissolving drugs , mix thoroughly and use promptly .
Do not store reconstituted solutions of drugs for injection unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer of the solute .
Do not use unless the solution is clear .
Do not reuse single - dose containers .
Discard unused portion .
Reactions which may occur because of this solution , added drugs , or the technique of reconstitution or administration include febrile response , local tenderness , abscess , tissue necrosis or infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis , or phlebitis extending from the site of injection and extravasation .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate countermeasures , and if possible , retrieve and save the remainder of the unused vehicle for examination .
Use only as a diluent or solvent .
This parenteral preparation is unlikely to pose a threat of fluid overload , except possibly in neonates or very small infants .
In the event these should occur , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration , dose , and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer .
This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Please refer to INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE for administration instructions .
Sterile Water for Injection , USP is supplied in 5 mL vials , packaged in cartons as follows : NDC 0487 - 6105 - 01 , 30 individual 5 mL single - dose luer - lock vials .
Discard unused portion .
Each vial is made from a polypropylene ( PP ) resin .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sterile Water for Injection , USP 5 mL Single - Dose Luer - Lock Vial Read complete instructions carefully before using .
USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE and instructions for use .
A sterile luer - lock syringe ( not included ) must be separately obtained for use with the luer - lock vial .
Use aseptic technique throughout the Infor the withdrawal of the contents from the luer - lock vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
