Active ingredient Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Octisalate , 5 . 0 % Octocrylene , 4 . 0 % Oxybenzone , 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• • Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
• • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information • • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients water , carbomer , cetearyl alcohol , ceteareth - 20 , glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , diiosopropyl adipate , propylene glycol , diazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , dimethicone , triethanolamine .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Awaken by Quality Choice ® long lasting facial moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Oil free Hypoallergenic Non - comedogenic Dermatologist tested * Compare to Neutrogena ® Oil - Free Moisture Sensitive Skin Ingredients 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) Long - Lasting Facial Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Sunscreen penetrates deep into skin to provide instant moisturization and sun protection .
Your skin will be left feeling softer , smoother , and look revitalized .
THE RESULTS This light , non - greasy lotion efficiently moisturizes skin for up to 12 hours .
The pure formula is quickly absorbed , leaving skin softer and smoother .
Broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen assists in fighting premature aging caused by daily exposure to the sun .
The oil - free formulation is quickly absorbed so it won ’ t clog pores leading to skin breakouts .
Long - Lasting Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF15 Sunscreen is : • • Hypoallergenic • • Fragrance - Free • • Alcohol - Free ( no drying alcohol ) DIRECTIONS FOR USE Use morning and evening , alone or under make - up .
Apply over entire face and neck .
Dermatologist Note : Humectants increase the water content in skin without causing shine , clogging pores or smearing make - up .
Many oil - free products contain moisturizing ingredients with these humectants properties , making them ideal for oily skin .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Neutrogena ® , owner of the registered trademark Neutrogena ® Oil - Free Moisture SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Distributed by C . D . M . A . , Inc . © 43157 W . Nine Mile Novi , MI 48376 - 0995 www . qualitychoice . com Questions : 248 - 449 - 9300 Manufactured in Israel 82026 CD C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
