Drug Facts Salicylic Acid 2 . 0 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the management of body acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin , even layer two to three times daily • Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • Use daily and liberally .
Can be applied multiple times throughout the day • Apply by spraying all over the body pre - and post - workout , after showering , and as an overnight leave - on treatment • Avoid spraying on eyes , face and mucus membranes .
This product is intended for body use .
Other information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive Ingredients Water , SD Alcohol 40 , Glycerin , Butylene Glycol , Dimethyl Isosorbide , PCA Ethyl Cocoyl Arginate , Beta - Glucan , Allantoin , Menthol , Panthenol , Myristol Tetrapeptide - 6 , Sodium Hydroxide .
Questions or comments ?
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 Made in the USA Salicylic Acid Body Spray SLMD SANDRA LEE MD SKIN CARE BY DR . PIMPLE POPPER Salicylic Acid Body Spray 2 % Salicylic Acid Body Acne Treatment 3 . 0 fl .
oz .
/ 90 mL Dermatologist formulated , skincare for all Sandre Lee , MD - pop colture ' s favorite dermatologist - founded SLMD Skincare to bridge the gap between the cluttered skincare aisle and a doctor ' s visit .
Inspired by the philosophy of democratizing dermatology ™ and understanding that no skin type is the same , SLMD is committed to offering dermatologist - backed products and information - to empower everyone to make better , healthier skincare choices .
Salicylic Acid Body Spray This one is for the acne that ' s everywhere else .
Formulated with maximum strength Salicylic Acid , trust this spray to soothe and clear existing body breakouts while unclogging pores to prevent new acne from forming .
With a 360 ° sprayer , you can treat pimples no matter where they ' re hiding .
Use it day or night , before or after you workout , and even when a post - gym shower does n't quite fit into your schedule .
How to use : Spray onto affected areas and let absorb .
Reapply throughout the day , as needed .
For best results , use with SLMD BP Body Wash .
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 Made in the USA 3 fl .
oz .
Unit Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 fl .
oz .
Primary [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 fl .
oz .
Unit Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 fl .
oz .
Primary [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
