Active ingredient Diclofenac sodium ( NSAID * ) 1 % ( equivalent to 0 . 93 % diclofenac ) * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Arthritis pain reliever Uses • • for the temporary relief of arthritis pain ONLY in the following areas : • • hand , wrist , elbow ( upper body areas ) • • foot , ankle , knee ( lower body areas ) • • this product may take up to 7 days to work for arthritis pain ; it is not for immediate relief .
If no pain relief in 7 days , stop use .
Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • • hives • • asthma ( wheezing ) • • skin reddening • • blisters • • facial swelling • • shock • • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Liver warning : This product contains diclofenac .
Liver damage may occur if you apply • • more or for a longer time than directed • • when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is small but higher if you • • are age 60 or older • • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • • apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Do not use • • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer • • for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
• • right before or after heart surgery • • on more than 2 body areas at the same time • • in the eyes , nose or mouth Ask a doctor before us if • • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • • you are taking a diuretic • • you are under age 18 years .
It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under age 18 years .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • under a doctor ’ s care for any serious condition • • taking any other drug When using this product • • avoid contact with eyes , nose , or mouth • • if eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if • • pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days • • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • • fever occurs • • skin irritation occurs • • any new symptoms appear .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • • feel faint • • have bloody or black stools • • vomit blood • • have stomach pain that does not get better • • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • • chest pain • • trouble breathing • • leg swelling • • weakness in one part or side of body • • slurred speech If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use this product during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions Use up to 21 days unless directed by your doctor Not for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain : • • Use 4 times per day every day • • Do not use on more than 2 body areas at the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose • • For each upper body area ( hand , wrist , or elbow ) – Squeeze out 2 . 25 inches ( 2 grams ) • • For each lower body area ( foot , ankle or knee ) – Squeeze out 4 . 5 inches ( 4 grams ) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions : • • use only as directed • • do not use more than directed or for longer than directed • • apply only to clean , dry skin that does not have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes • • do not apply in same area as any other product • • do not apply with external heat such as heating pad • • do not apply a bandage over the treated area • • store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % product .
The dosing card is re - usable .
Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Keep from freezing .
• • read all product information before using .
Keep the dosing card , this carton and accompanying User Guide for important information .
Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer Type C , cocoyl caprylocaprate , fragrance , isopropyl alcohol , mineral oil , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , propylene glycol , purified water , strong ammonia solution Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) Arthritis Pain Reliever User Guide How to use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % with answers to frequently asked questions Quick Start How to get started right away with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Understanding Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) – arthritis pain reliever is an arthritis pain relief medication that you apply to your skin .
Before You Use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Read the Drug Facts Label , which appears on the carton .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the dosing card from the inside of the carton .
You should always use the dosing card to measure out the correct dose of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
The first time you use a tube of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Take the cap off the tube .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Open the safety seal by firmly pressing the point on the top of the cap onto the seal on the tube .
Do not open the safety seal with scissors or other sharp objects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
After use , put the cap back on the end of the tube .
Using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % How often to use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Use 4 times a day for best results .
For example : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Where to apply Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % can be used on up to 2 body areas from the following list : a hand , a wrist , an elbow , a foot , an ankle , a knee .
Do not use on more than 2 body areas at once .
Some examples include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Measuring the correct amount using the dosing card [ MULTIMEDIA ] For each upper body area ( a hand , a wrist , or an elbow ) : Squeeze gel from the tube equal to the length shown on the upper body section of the dosing card ( 2 . 25 inches ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For each lower body area ( a foot , an ankle , or a knee ) : Squeeze gel from the tube equal to the length shown on the lower body section of the dosing card ( 4 . 5 inches ) .
Lost Your Dosing Card ?
Don ’ t worry !
Call 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 to get a free replacement .
Applying Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Gently rub Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % into the skin using your hand .
Apply 4 times a day for best results .
Do not use on more than 2 body areas at once .
Apply only to clean , dry skin that doesn ’ t have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes .
Do not apply in the same area as any other medicines or products that are applied to the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] After You Use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash your hands after applying Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
If the treated area is the hands wait up to 1 hour to wash the hands .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash the dosing card with water .
Store dosing card with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % and keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wait ten minutes before covering the treated areas with clothes or gloves .
Avoid : • • showering or bathing for at least 1 hour after use • • exposing the treated area to sunlight or artificial light ( such as in tanning booths ) • • use in same area as other products applied to the skin • • applying a bandage over the treated area • • eye , nose , or mouth contact • • if eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Facts you need to know Important information about Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Do not use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ... • • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer • • for strains , sprains , bruises or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
• • right before or after heart surgery • • on more than 2 body areas at the same time • • in the eyes , nose or mouth Ask a doctor before use if ... • • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • • you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn • • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease , asthma , or had a stroke • • you are taking a diuretic • • you are under age 18 years .
It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under age 18 years .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if ... • • you are under a doctor ’ s care for any serious condition • • you are taking any other drug • • you are pregnant or breast - feeding It is especially important not to use this product during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Warnings to consider before use ... Allergy alert Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • • hives • • blisters • • asthma ( wheezing ) • • facial swelling • • skin reddening • • shock • • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Liver warning This product contains diclofenac .
Liver damage may occur if you apply • • more or for a longer time than directed • • when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID , which may cause stomach bleeding .
The chance is small but higher if you • • are age 60 or older • • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • • take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • • apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure , and stroke .
This can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Follow these important guidelines when using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ... • • use only as directed • • apply only to clean , dry skin that does not have any cuts , open wounds , infections or rashes • • do not apply in the same area as any other product used on the skin • • do not apply with external heat such as heating pad • • do not apply a bandage over the treated area • • do not get gel in eyes , nose or mouth • • store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
The dosing card is re - usable .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Stop using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % and ask a doctor if ... • • pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days • • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • • fever occurs • • skin irritation occurs • • any new symptoms appear .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • • feel faint • • have bloody or black stools • • vomit blood • • have stomach pain that does not get better • • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • • chest pain • • trouble breathing • • leg swelling • • weakness in one part of side of body • • slurred speech Questions and Answers Answers to questions you may ask about Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % Can I use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % for the immediate relief of pain like that associated with sprains , strains , bruises , or sports injuries ?
No .
Do not use for strains , sprains , bruises , or sports injuries .
This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries .
It ’ s intended only for the temporary relief of arthritis pain .
How quickly will Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % work for arthritis pain ?
Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % may take up to 7 days to work for your arthritis pain ; it is not for immediate relief .
With 4 times - a - day use , you may start to feel relief within a few days .
You should feel significant pain relief within 7 days of continuous use .
If no pain relief in 7 days , stop use .
What is Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % used for ?
Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % can be used for the temporary relief of arthritis pain in the hands , wrists , elbows , feet , ankles , and knees .
Osteoarthritis ( OA ) is the most common form of arthritis .
It mainly affects a type of tissue called cartilage , which cushions the joints and prevents the bones from rubbing against each other .
With OA , cartilage begins to break down and wear away , resulting in joint pain and stiffness .
OA occurs more frequently as you get older .
Pain develops slowly and can gradually worsen over time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How does Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % work ?
Diclofenac sodium , the medicine in Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % , is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
NSAIDs are used to treat pain from medical conditions such as arthritis .
Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % works similarly to oral NSAIDs like ibuprofen or naproxen by temporarily blocking the production of pain signaling chemicals called prostaglandins .
However , when taking a pill , the medication is distributed to the site of pain through the bloodstream .
Compared to oral diclofenac , only 6 % of the medicine in Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % is absorbed in the bloodstream .
It works by penetrating through your skin at the application site to deliver arthritis pain relief .
How does over - the - counter Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % differ from prescription Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
Over - the - counter Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % is the same strength and formula as original full prescription strength Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % but is available without a prescription .
Apply Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % 4 times a day to ensure you get the full effect of the medicine .
Can I apply Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % to upper and lower body areas at the same time ?
Yes .
You can use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % on up to 2 body areas at the same time .
The areas can include the foot , ankle , knee , hand , wrist , and elbow .
Some correct examples include : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % on more than 2 body areas at once .
Can I apply Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % without measuring it out on the dosing card first ?
No .
Use the dosing card to make sure you are getting the correct amount of medicine .
Can I use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % on my spine , hips , or shoulders ?
No .
The use of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % on the spine , hips , and shoulders has not been studied .
Can I take any other pain medications with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
Ask your doctor or pharmacist before using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % if you are taking any other pain reliever or are planning on taking any other pain reliever , especially prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) .
Can I take any other pain medications during the first 7 days I use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
Taking other pain medications is generally not recommended .
Speak with your doctor or pharmacist before taking other pain medications when using Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
How long can I use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
Use Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % 4 times a day every day for up to 21 days for treatment of arthritis pain or as directed by your doctor .
Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % should be part of an overall program for managing your arthritis pain .
The program should also include activities such as appropriate movement or exercise , specific lifestyle changes , and weight maintenance .
Regular visits and discussions with your doctor can help incorporate Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % into a complete program to help manage your arthritis pain .
What do I do if I get Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % in my eyes ?
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water and consult a doctor if irritation lasts more than an hour .
How do I clean the dosing card ?
Wash the dosing card with water , and store dosing card and tube out of reach of children .
What if I miss a dose of Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
If you forget to apply Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % don ’ t double your dose .
Just apply the next dose as scheduled .
How should I store Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ?
• • Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
• • Do not freeze Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
• • Store the dosing card with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % .
• • Keep out of reach of children .
Additional Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
Made in Israel Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 87A00 00 J1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Principal Display Panel Compare to Voltaren ® Arthritis Pain active ingredient Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel , 1 % ( NSAID ) Arthritis Pain Reliever Anti - Inflammatory For Daily Treatment of Arthritis Pain Original Prescription Strength For External Use Only NET WT 1 . 76 OZ ( 50 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
