Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) 11 / 2021 WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See Full Prescribing Information for complete boxed warning .
• Nexesta Fe is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nexesta Fe is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
Nexesta Fe is a progestin / estrogen COC indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
Tablets may be chewed or swallowed .
( 2 . 1 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 How to Start Nexesta Fe Nexesta Fe is dispensed in a blister pack [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Nexesta Fe may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take Nexesta Fe Nexesta Fe ( white to off - white active tablets and brown placebo tablets ) may be swallowed whole or chewed and swallowed .
If the tablet is chewed , the patient should drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid immediately after swallowing .
Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of Nexesta Fe Starting CHCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • Nexesta Fe active tablets are white to off - white ( Day 1 to Day 21 ) .
• Nexesta Fe placebo tablets are brown ( Day 22 to Day 28 ) .
Day 1 Start : • Take first white to off - white active tablet on the first day of menses .
• Take subsequent white to off - white active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• Take one brown placebo tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the day after taking the last inactive tablet ) .
Sunday Start : • Take first active tablet on the first Sunday after the onset of menses .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Nexesta Fe .
• Take subsequent white to off - white active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• Take one brown placebo tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet ) and additional non - hormonal contraceptive is not needed .
Switching to Nexesta Fe from another hormonal contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous hormonal contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to Nexesta Fe Start Nexesta Fe : • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ’ s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms and spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack .
• Implant • On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
Starting Nexesta Fe after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , Nexesta Fe may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if Nexesta Fe is started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy .
• If Nexesta Fe is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Nexesta Fe .
Second - trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start Nexesta Fe , following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start , as desired .
If using Sunday start , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Nexesta Fe .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . ]
Starting Nexesta Fe after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with Nexesta Fe following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Nexesta Fe .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 3 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Nexesta Fe Tablets • If one white to off - white active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
• If two white to off - white active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• If two white to off - white active tablets are missed in Week 3 or three or more white to off - white active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nexesta Fe ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( chewable ) and ferrous fumarate tablets ( chewable ) ) is available in blister packs .
Each blister pack contains 28 tablets in the following order : • 21 round , flat faced , beveled edge , white to off - white ( active ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 47 ’ on other side and each containing 0 . 4 mg norethindrone USP and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol USP .
• 7 round , mottled , flat - faced , beveled - edge , brown ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 57 ’ on other side each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate USP .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Nexesta Fe consists of 28 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • 21 white to off - white tablets ( active ) , each containing 0 . 4 mg norethindrone USP and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol USP • 7 brown tablets ( non - hormonal placebo ) , each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate USP .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nexesta Fe is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : o Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] o Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] o Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to any of the components .
• Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Current diagnosis of , or history of , breast cancer , which may be hormone - sensitive ( 4 ) • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop Nexesta Fe if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding ( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue Nexesta Fe if jaundice occurs ( 5 . 2 ) • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Nexesta Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Nexesta Fe .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia ( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Nexesta Fe if indicated ( 5 . 7 ) • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • Stop Nexesta Fe if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• Stop Nexesta Fe if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• If feasible , stop Nexesta Fe at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during the following prolonged immobilization .
• Start Nexesta Fe no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
The risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Nexesta Fe in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Nexesta Fe if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Nexesta Fe is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Nexesta Fe prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Nexesta Fe can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure Nexesta Fe is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Nexesta Fe if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who take Nexesta Fe .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking Nexesta Fe develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Nexesta Fe if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Nexesta Fe in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use Nexesta Fe may experience amenorrhea .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 COC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiologic studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when oral contraceptives are taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue Nexesta Fe use if pregnancy is confirmed .
Administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Nexesta Fe if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Nexesta Fe is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives ( COCs ) and breast cancer risk .
Studies do not show an association between ever ( current or past ) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer .
However , some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users ( < 6 months since last use ) and current users with longer duration of COC use [ see Postmarketing Experience ( 6 ) ] .
Cervical Cancer A causal relationship between the use of CHCs and the development of cervical cancer and intraepithelial neoplasia has not been clearly established .
In observational studies , some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sec hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Nexesta Fe .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The following adverse reactions are commonly reported by COC users .
Because these reactions are voluntarily reported by from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions were : irregular uterine bleeding , nausea , breast tenderness , and headache .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Postmarketing Experience Five studies that compared breast cancer risk between ever - users ( current or past use ) of COCs and never - users of COCs reported no association between ever use of COCs and breast cancer risk , with effect estimates ranging from 0 . 90 to 1 . 12 ( Figure 1 ) .
Three studies compared breast cancer risk between current or recent COC users ( < 6 months since last use ) and never users of COCs ( Figure 1 ) .
One of these studies reported no association between breast cancer risk and COC use .
The other two studies found an increased relative risk of 1 . 19 to 1 . 33 with current or recent use .
Both of these studies found an increased risk of breast cancer with current use of longer duration , with relative risks ranging from 1 . 03 with less than one year of COC use to approximately 1 . 4 with more than 8 to 10 years of COC use .
Figure 1 : Risk of Breast Cancer with Combined Oral Contraceptive Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] RR = relative risk ; OR = odds ratio ; HR = hazard ratio .
“ ever COC ” are females with current or past COC use ; “ never COC use ” are females that never used COCs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
• Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as itraconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Nexesta Fe with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Advise use of another contraceptive method .
Nexesta Fe can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
Do not use COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding as a test for pregnancy .
Do not use COCs during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception , when possible , until she has weaned her child .
COCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of oral contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Nexesta Fe have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same in post - pubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Nexesta Fe has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Nexesta Fe has not been studied in women with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Nexesta Fe has not been studied in women with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdosage of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Nexesta Fe is a combinational contraceptive containing the progestational compound norethindrone and the estrogenic compound ethinyl estradiol .
The packaging includes 21 white to off - white tablets composed of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol followed by 7 brown ferrous fumarate ( placebo ) tablets .
The chemical name for norethindrone is 17 - hydroxy - 19 - nor - 17α - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one and for ethinyl estradiol the chemical name is 19 - nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol .
The structural formulas are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The active white to off - white Nexesta Fe ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( chewable ) 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg and ferrous fumarate tablets ( chewable ) ) tablets contain 0 . 4 mg norethindrone USP and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol USP and the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , dihydrate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , nat spearmint , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , and sucralose .
The brown tablets contain croscarmellose sodium , ferrous fumarate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , nat spearmint , povidone , and sucralose .
The ferrous fumarate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
USP dissolution test is pending .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Nexesta Fe .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone are rapidly absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours after Nexesta Fe administration ( see Table 1 ) .
Norethindrone appears to be completely absorbed following oral administration ; however , it is subject to first - pass metabolism resulting in an absolute bioavailability of approximately 65 percent .
Large intersubject variability is reflected in a 3 - to 5 - fold variation in norethindrone bioavailability .
Ethinyl estradiol bioavailability is approximately 43 percent due to small - intestinal and hepatic first - pass metabolism .
Table 3 .
Mean ± SD Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single Dose Administration of Nexesta Fe in Healthy Female Subjects Under Fasting Conditions . an = 26 bn = 25 Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; tmax = time to reach Cmax ; AUC = area under the curve ; t1 / 2 = elimination half - life .
Norethindrone / Ethinyl Estradiol tmax ( h ) Cmax ( pg / mL ) AUC0 - ∞ ( pg • h / mL ) t1 / 2 ( h ) Norethindrone 0 . 4 mg 1 . 24 ± 0 . 40 a 4210 . 6 ± 1628 . 8 a 18034 . 9 ± 7852 . 9 b 8 . 6 ± 3 . 7 b Ethinyl Estradiol 0 . 035 mg 1 . 44 ± 0 . 33 b 131 . 4 ± 34 . 2 b 1065 . 8 ± 276 . 2 b 17 . 1 ± 4 . 4 b Food Effect : Single - dose administration of Nexesta Fe tablets with food decreased the maximum norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol concentration by 53 percent and 47 percent , respectively ; the extent of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol absorption ( AUC values ) was not affected by food administration .
Distribution Norethindrone is 36 percent bound to sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) and 61 percent bound to albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol is not bound to SHBG but is highly ( 98 . 5 percent ) bound to albumin .
Volume of distribution of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol ranges from 2 to 4 L / kg .
Metabolism Norethindrone undergoes extensive biotransformation , primarily via reduction , followed by sulfate and glucuronide conjugation ; less than 5 percent of a norethindrone dose is excreted unchanged ; greater than 50 percent and 20 to 40 percent of a dose is excreted in urine and feces , respectively .
The majority of metabolites in the circulation are sulfates , with glucuronides accounting for most of the urinary metabolites .
Ethinyl estradiol is also extensively metabolized , both by oxidation and by conjugation with sulfate and glucuronide .
Sulfates are the major circulating conjugates of ethinyl estradiol , and glucuronides predominate in urine .
The primary oxidative metabolite is 2 - hydroxy - ethinyl estradiol , which is formed by the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome P450 .
Excretion Plasma clearance values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol are similar ( approximately 0 . 4 L / hr / kg ) .
Ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone are excreted in both urine and feces , primarily as metabolites .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in urine and feces as glucuronides and sulfates , and about 28 to 43 percent undergoes enterohepatic circulation .
The mean terminal elimination half - lives of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following single dose administration of Nexesta Fe are approximately 9 hours and 17 hours , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The data presented in Section 14 are from a clinical trial conducted with norethindrone 0 . 4 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 035 mg tablets .
Nexesta Fe is bioequivalent to these norethindrone acetate / ethinyl estradiol tablets .
In a multicenter open - label clinical trial , 1 , 970 women , 98 % of whom were 16 to 39 years of age , were studied for up to 31 cycles ( 28 days per cycle ) to assess the efficacy of norethindrone / ethinyl estradiol tablets , completing the equivalent of 20 , 230 cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of all enrolled women was : Caucasian ( 56 % ) , African - American ( 14 % ) , and Other ( 30 % ) ( Hispanic , Native American , etc . ) .
Of treated women , 10 % were lost to follow - up , 11 % discontinued related to cycle control and 7 % discontinued due to other adverse events .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in all 1 , 970 women was 1 . 48 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 0 . 94 to 2 . 22 ) , based on 23 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment of norethindrone / ethinyl estradiol tablets .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Nexesta Fe ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( chewable ) 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg and ferrous fumarate tablets ( chewable ) ) is available in blister packs : The Blister Packs are packed in Pouches ( NDC 65862 - 926 - 87 ) and the pouches are packaged in cartons Carton of 1 Pouch NDC 65862 - 926 - 87 Carton of 3 Pouches NDC 65862 - 926 - 88 Carton of 5 Pouches NDC 65862 - 926 - 58 Carton of 72 Pouches NDC 65862 - 926 - 97 Each blister pack contains 28 tablets in the following order : • 21 round , flat faced , beveled edge , white to off - white ( active ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 47 ’ on other side and each containing 0 . 4 mg norethindrone USP and 0 . 035 mg ethinyl estradiol USP .
• 7 round , mottled , flat - faced , beveled - edge , brown ( non - hormonal placebo ) tablets debossed with ‘ S ’ on one side and ‘ 57 ’ on other side each containing 75 mg ferrous fumarate USP .
16 . 2 Storage Conditions • Store at 20º to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77º F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Protect from light .
Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Counsel patients about the following information : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Nexesta Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Nexesta Fe is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Nexesta Fe , instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Nexesta Fe [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• A woman who starts COCs postpartum and who has not yet had a period should use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a white to off - white tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Patient Information NexestaTM Fe ( neks - ey - stuh Fe ) ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( chewable ) and ferrous fumarate tablets ( chewable ) ) What is the most important information I should know about Nexesta Fe ?
Do not use Nexesta Fe if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects ( heart and blood vessel problems ) from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is Nexesta Fe ?
Nexesta Fe is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
How does Nexesta Fe work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of one clinical study of a 28 - day regimen of norethindrone 0 . 4 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 035 mg tablets , about 1 to 2 out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use Nexesta Fe .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not take Nexesta Fe ?
Do not take Nexesta Fe if you : • smoke and are over 35 years of age • had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • had a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • had a stroke • had a heart attack • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • have liver problems , including liver tumors • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant • had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • Take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood If any of these conditions happen while you are taking Nexesta Fe , stop taking Nexesta Fe right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking Nexesta Fe .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Nexesta Fe ?
Tell your healthcare provider if you : • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Nexesta Fe may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in Nexesta Fe may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Nexesta Fe may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well Nexesta Fe works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How do I take Nexesta Fe ?
Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information .
What are the possible serious side effects of Nexesta Fe ?
• Like pregnancy , Nexesta Fe may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • first start taking birth control pills • restart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : o leg pain that will not go away o a sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches o sudden severe shortness of breath o weakness or numbness in your arm or leg o sudden change in vision or blindness o trouble speaking o chest pain Other serious side effects include : • liver problems , including : • rare liver tumors • jaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider for a yearly check of your blood pressure .
• gallbladder problems • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • depression • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth , tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher is you have a history of angioedema .
• dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking Nexesta Fe .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of Nexesta Fe ?
The most common side effects of Nexesta Fe include : • headache ( including migraine ) • nausea and vomiting • breast problems • tenderness , pain and discomfort • enlargement and swelling • discharge • nipple pain • belly pain • pain with your periods ( menstrual cycle ) • mood changes , including depression • acne • vaginal infections • bloating • weight gain These are not all the possible side effects of Nexesta Fe .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking Nexesta Fe ?
• If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking Nexesta Fe .
Certain blood tests may be affected by Nexesta Fe .
• Nexesta Fe does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How should I store Nexesta Fe ?
• Store Nexesta Fe at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep Nexesta Fe and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• Store away from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of Nexesta Fe .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Nexesta Fe for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Nexesta Fe to other people .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about Nexesta Fe .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Nexesta Fe that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 Does hormonal birth control cause cancer ?
It is not known if hormonal birth control pills causes breast cancer .
Some studies , but not all , suggest that there could be a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer among current users with longer duration of use .
If you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking Nexesta Fe ?
Your periods may be lighter and shorter than usual .
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking Nexesta Fe , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What are the ingredients in Nexesta Fe ?
Active ingredients : White to off - white pills : norethindrone USP and ethinyl estradiol USP Brown pills : ferrous fumarate USP Inactive ingredients : White to off - white pills : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , dihydrate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , nat spearmint , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , and sucralose .
Brown pills : croscarmellose sodium , ferrous fumarate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , nat spearmint , povidone , and sucralose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions For Use NexestaTM Fe ( neks - ey - stuh Fe ) ( norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ( chewable ) and ferrous fumarate tablets ( chewable ) ) Important Information about taking Nexesta Fe • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your blister pack .
• Both the white to off - white pills and the brown pills may be swallowed whole or chewed and swallowed .
If the pill is chewed , drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid immediately after swallowing .
• Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• If you have trouble remembering to take Nexesta Fe , talk to your healthcare provider .
When you first start taking Nexesta Fe , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking Nexesta Fe .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• It is not uncommon to miss a period .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken Nexesta Fe according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking Nexesta Fe .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 to 4 hours of taking your pill , take another pill of the same color from your extra blister pack .
If you do not have an extra blister pack , take the next pill in your blister pack .
Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next blister pack the day after finishing your current blister pack .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms and a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• Stop taking Nexesta Fe at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart after the surgery without asking your healthcare provider .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms and spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking Nexesta Fe : • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your blister pack .
• Have backup contraception ( condoms and spermicide ) available and if possible , an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking Nexesta Fe ?
If you start taking Nexesta Fe and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
You can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
• If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Nexesta Fe .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking Nexesta Fe and you are switching from another birth control pill : • Start your new Nexesta Fe pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking Nexesta Fe and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • Start using Nexesta Fe on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking Nexesta Fe and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • Start taking Nexesta Fe on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking Nexesta Fe and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • Start taking Nexesta Fe on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Nexesta Fe .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , “ When should I start taking Nexesta Fe ? ”
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
• Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
• If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill “ 1 ” that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order on the blister pack at the same time each day for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
• Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms and spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take Nexesta Fe .
Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your doctor told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• Take 1 pill every day in the order of the blister pack , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
• After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
Instructions for using your pill pack : Step 1 .
Look at your Nexesta Fe pill pack .
See Figure A .
The Nexesta Fe pill pack has : • 21 white to off - white ( active ) pills with hormone for Week 1 through Week 3 .
• 7 brown ( inactive ) pills without hormones for Week 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Step 2 .
Find : • where on your pack to start taking pills • in what order to take your pills ( follow the arrows ) • the week numbers Step 3 .
Remove the white to off - white pill by pressing the pill through the foil in the bottom of the pill pack .
See Figure B . Continue taking the white to off - white pills for 21 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 4 .
On the first day of Week 4 start taking the brown pills .
Take the brown pill for 7 days .
Your period should start during this time .
Step 5 .
When you have taken all of the brown pills in your pill pack , get a new pill pack and start taking the white to off - white pills .
• For a Day 1 start : Begin your next pill pack on the same day of the week as your first cycle pill pack .
• For a Sunday Start : Begin your next pill pack on Sunday .
What should I do if I miss any Nexesta Fe pills ?
If you miss 1 pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pills in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pills in a row in Week 3 , or you miss 3 or more pills in a row during Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 of the pack , follow these steps : • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • Throw out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• If you are a Sunday Starter : • Keep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom and spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc .
279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 12 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg 1 Pouch Label NDC 65862 - 926 - 87 NexestaTM Fe ( Norethindrone and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP ( Chewable ) 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg and Ferrous Fumarate Tablets ( Chewable ) ) Each of the 21 WHITE TO OFF - WHITE tablets contains norethindrone USP 0 . 4 mg and ethinyl estradiol USP 0 . 035 mg .
Each of the 7 BROWN tablets contains ferrous fumarate USP 75 mg .
Ferrous Fumarate tablets are not USP for dissolution and assay .
This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Rx only Contains 1 Blister of 28 Tablets Each AUROBINDO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg Pouch Carton NDC 65862 - 926 - 58 NexestaTM Fe ( Norethindrone and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP ( Chewable ) 0 . 4 mg / 0 . 035 mg and Ferrous Fumarate Tablets ( Chewable ) ) Each of the 21 WHITE TO OFF - WHITE tablets contains norethindrone USP 0 . 4 mg and ethinyl estradiol USP 0 . 035 mg .
Each of the 7 BROWN tablets contains ferrous fumarate USP 75 mg .
Ferrous Fumarate tablets are not USP for dissolution and assay This product ( like all oral contraceptives ) is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Rx only Conatins 5 Pouches of 28 Tablets Each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
