[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) .
• Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Patients new to methylphenidate : Recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily for pediatric patients and 10 mg once daily for adults with or without food in the morning ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Patients currently on methylphenidate : Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release dosage is half ( 1 / 2 ) the current total daily dosage of methylphenidate ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Patients currently on dexmethylphenidate immediate - release tablets : Give the same daily dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Titrate weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Maximum recommended daily dose : 30 mg in pediatric patients and 40 mg in adults ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled on applesauce ( 2 . 3 ) .
2 . 1 Pre - treatment Screening Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulants including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history including family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical examination ) [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 2 ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dosage of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release for patients who are not currently taking dexmethylphenidate or racemic methylphenidate , or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate are : • Pediatric patients : Start with 5 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food .
• Adult patients : Start with 10 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food .
Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release for patients currently using methylphenidate is half ( 1 / 2 ) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate .
Patients currently using dexmethylphenidate immediate - release tablets may be given the same daily dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Titration Schedule The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients .
The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient .
Daily doses above 30 mg in pediatrics and 40 mg in adults have not been studied and are not recommended .
Maintenance / Extended Treatment Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is administered orally and may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce .
If the patient is using the sprinkled administration method , the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately ; it should not be stored .
Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing .
The dose of a single capsule should not be divided .
The contents of the entire capsule should be taken , and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day .
2 . 4 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur , reduce the dosage , or if necessary , discontinue dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 5 mg , extended - release capsule , light blue opaque body and light blue opaque capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 048 on body .
10 mg , extended - release capsule , beige opaque body and beige opaque capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 049 on body .
15 mg , extended - release capsule , spring green opaque body and spring green opaque capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 090 on body .
20 mg , extended - release capsule , white opaque body and white opaque capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 248 on body .
25 mg , extended - release capsule , white opaque body and yellow transparent capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 333 on body .
30 mg , extended - release capsule , white opaque body and yellow transparent capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 539 on body .
35 mg , extended - release capsule , white opaque body and yellow transparent capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 339 on body .
40 mg , extended - release capsule , white opaque body and yellow transparent capsule , imprinted in black ink “ par ” on capsule and 546 on body .
Extended - Release Capsules : 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg , 30 mg , 35 mg , and 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI , because of the risk of hypertensive crises [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( 4 ) .
• Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Events : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risk in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic ( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with preexisting psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for existing psychotic or bipolar disorder prior to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release use ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients ( 5 . 7 ) .
5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Boxed Warning , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses .
Sudden death has been reported in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious heart problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known serious structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 beats per minute ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Preexisting Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a preexisting psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed mood episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , Including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treating with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
In a 7 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , the mean weight gain was greater for pediatric patients ( ages 6 to 17 years ) receiving placebo ( + 0 . 4 kg ) than for patients receiving dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( - 0 . 5 kg ) .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in pediatric patients ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated patients over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated pediatric patients ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , and patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Abuse and Dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other ingredients of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive Crisis with Concomitant Use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , DrugInteractions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - Term Suppression of Growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) : • Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years : dyspepsia , decreased appetite , headache , and anxiety ( 6 . 1 ) .
• Adults : dry mouth , dyspepsia , headache , pharyngolaryngeal pain , and anxiety ( 6 . 1 ) .
• To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release in Pediatric Patients with ADHD The safety data in this section is based on data from a 7 - week controlled clinical study of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in 100 ( 103 randomized ) pediatric patients with ADHD ages 6 to 17 years ( ages 6 to 12 , n = 86 ; ages 13 to 17 , n = 17 ) .
This study was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study to evaluate the time of onset , duration of efficacy , tolerability , safety of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release5 mg to 30 mg / day who met The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , Fourth Edition ( DSM - IV ) criteria for ADHD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % and at least twice placebo ) : dyspepsia , decreased appetite , headache and anxiety .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation : 50 of 684 ( 7 . 3 % ) pediatric patients treated with dexmethylphenidate immediate - release tablets experienced an adverse reaction that resulted in discontinuation .
The most common reasons for discontinuation were twitching ( described as motor or vocal tics ) , anorexia , insomnia , and tachycardia ( approximately 1 % each ) .
Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions for the placebo - controlled , parallel - group study in children and adolescents with ADHD at flexible dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release doses of 5 to 30 mg / day .
The table includes only those events that occurred in 5 % or more of patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and for which the incidence in patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release was at least twice the incidence in placebo - treated patients .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) with ADHD System Organ Class Adverse Reaction Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release N = 53 Placebo N = 47 Gastrointestinal Disorders 38 % 19 % Dyspepsia 8 % 4 % Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders 34 % 11 % Decreased Appetite 30 % 9 % Nervous System Disorders 30 % 13 % Headache 25 % 11 % Psychiatric Disorders 26 % 15 % Anxiety 6 % 0 % Abbreviation : ADHD , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
Table 2 below enumerates the incidence of dose - related adverse reactions that occurred during a fixed - dose , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in pediatric patients with ADHD taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release up to 30 mg daily versus placebo .
The table includes only those reactions that occurred in patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release for which the incidence was at least 5 % and greater than the incidence among placebo - treated patients .
Table 2 : Dose - Related Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) with ADHD System Organ Class Adverse Reaction Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 10 mg / day N = 64 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 20 mg / day N = 60 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 30 mg / day N = 58 Placebo N = 63 Gastrointestinal Disorders 22 % 23 % 29 % 24 % Vomiting 2 % 8 % 9 % 0 % Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders 16 % 17 % 22 % 5 % Anorexia 5 % 5 % 7 % 0 % Psychiatric Disorders 19 % 20 % 38 % 8 % Insomnia 5 % 8 % 17 % 3 % Depression 0 % 0 % 3 % 0 % Mood Swings 0 % 0 % 3 % 2 % Other Adverse Reactions Irritability 0 % 2 % 5 % 0 % Nasal Congestion 0 % 0 % 5 % 0 % Pruritus 0 % 0 % 3 % 0 % Abbreviation : ADHD , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
Clinical Trials Experience with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release in Adult Patients with ADHD The safety data in this section is based on data from a 5 - week controlled clinical study of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in 218 adult patients ( 221 randomized ) with ADHD ages 18 to 60 years .
In this study , 101 adult patients were treated for at least 6 months .
This study was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study to evaluate the efficacy , safety , and tolerability of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release 20 mg , 30 mg , or 40 mg daily who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of greater than or equal to 5 % and at least twice placebo ) : dry mouth , dyspepsia , headache , anxiety , and pharyngolaryngeal pain .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation : During the double - blind phase of the study , 10 . 7 % of the dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release - treated patients and 7 . 5 % of the placebo - treated patients discontinued due to adverse reactions .
Three patients ( 1 . 8 % ) in the dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release discontinued due to insomnia and jittery , respectively and two patients ( 1 . 2 % ) in the dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release discontinued due to anorexia and anxiety , respectively .
Table 3 enumerates adverse reactions for the placebo - controlled , parallel - group study in adults with ADHD at fixed dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release doses of 20 , 30 , and 40 mg / day .
The table includes only those events that occurred in 5 % or more of patients in a dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release dose group and for which the incidences in patients treated with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release appeared to increase with dose .
Table 3 : Dose - Related Adverse Reactions in Adult Patients ( 18 to 60 years of age ) with ADHD System Organ Class Adverse Reaction Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 20 mg N = 57 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 30 mg N = 54 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 40 mg N = 54 Placebo N = 53 Gastrointestinal Disorders 28 % 32 % 44 % 19 % Dry Mouth 7 % 20 % 20 % 4 % Dyspepsia 5 % 9 % 9 % 2 % Nervous System Disorders 37 % 39 % 50 % 28 % Headache 26 % 30 % 39 % 19 % Psychiatric Disorders 40 % 43 % 46 % 30 % Anxiety 5 % 11 % 11 % 2 % Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders 16 % 9 % 15 % 8 % Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 4 % 4 % 7 % 2 % Two other adverse reactions occurring in clinical trials with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release at a frequency greater than placebo , but which were not dose related were : feeling jittery ( 12 % and 2 % , respectively ) and dizziness ( 6 % and 2 % , respectively ) .
Table 4 summarizes changes in vital signs and weight that were recorded in the adult study ( N = 218 ) of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in the treatment of ADHD .
Table 4 : Changes ( Mean ± SD ) in Vital Signs and Weight by Randomized Dose During Double - Blind Treatment - Adults Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride ER 20 mg ( N = 57 ) Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride ER 30 mg ( N = 54 ) Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride ER 40 mg ( N = 54 ) Placebo ( N = 53 ) Pulse ( bpm ) 3 . 1 ± 11 . 1 4 . 3 ± 11 . 7 6 . 0 ± 10 . 1 - 1 . 4 ± 9 . 3 Diastolic BP ( mmHg ) - 0 . 2 ± 8 . 2 1 . 2 ± 8 . 9 2 . 1 ± 8 . 0 0 . 3 ± 7 . 8 Weight ( kg ) - 1 . 4 ± 2 . 0 - 1 . 2 ± 1 . 9 - 1 . 7 ± 2 . 3 - 0 . 1 ± 3 . 9 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of dexmethylphenidate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Musculoskeletal : rhabdomyolysis Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema and anaphylaxis Adverse Reactions Reported with All Ritalin and Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Formulations The following adverse reactions associated with the use of all Ritalin and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release formulations were identified in clinical trials , spontaneous reports , and literature .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and Infestations : nasopharyngitis Blood and the Lymphatic System Disorders : leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema and anaphylaxis Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : decreased appetite , reduced weight gain , and suppression of growth during prolonged use in pediatric patients Psychiatric Disorders : insomnia , anxiety , restlessness , agitation , psychosis ( sometimes with visual and tactile hallucinations ) , depressed mood Nervous system disorders : headache , dizziness , tremor , dyskinesia including choreoathetoid movements , drowsiness , convulsions , cerebrovascular disorders ( including vasculitis , cerebral hemorrhages and cerebrovascular accidents ) , serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Eye Disorders : blurred vision , difficulties in visual accommodation Cardiac Disorders : tachycardia , palpitations , increased blood pressure , arrhythmias , angina pectoris Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : cough Gastrointestinal Disorders : dry mouth , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , dyspepsia Hepatobiliary Disorders : abnormal liver function , ranging from transaminase elevation to severe hepatic injury Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : hyperhidrosis , pruritus , urticaria , exfoliative dermatitis , scalp hair loss , erythema multiforme rash , thrombocytopenic purpura Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthralgia , muscle cramps , rhabdomyolysis Investigations : weight loss ( adult ADHD patients ) Additional Adverse Reactions Reported with Other Methylphenidate Products The list below shows adverse reactions not listed with Ritalin and Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release formulations that have been reported with other methylphenidate products based on clinical trials data and postmarketing spontaneous reports .
Blood and Lymphatic Disorders : pancytopenia Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions such as auricular swelling , bullous conditions , eruptions , exanthemas Psychiatric Disorders : affect lability , mania , disorientation , libido changes Nervous System Disorders : migraine Eye Disorders : diplopia , mydriasis Cardiac Disorders : sudden cardiac death , myocardial infarction , bradycardia , extrasystole , supraventricular tachycardia , ventricular extrasystole Vascular Disorders : peripheral coldness , Raynaud ' s phenomenon Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : pharyngolaryngeal pain , dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders : diarrhea , constipation Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : angioneurotic edema , erythema , fixed drug eruption Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : myalgia , muscle twitching Renal and Urinary Disorders : hematuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : gynecomastia General Disorders : fatigue , hyperpyrexia Urogenital Disorders : priapism 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drugs as needed ( 7 . 1 ) .
• Halogenated Anesthetics : Avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used ( 7 . 1 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and Medication Guide .
Revised 07 / 2021 7 . 1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmetyhlphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Table 5 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Intervention Concomitant use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated .
Examples selegiline , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , linezolid , methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed .
Examples Potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics , calcium channel blockers , angiotensin - converting - enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , beta blockers , centrally acting alpha - 2 receptor agonists Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery .
Intervention Avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery .
Examples halothane , isoflurane , enflurane , desflurane , sevoflurane Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy registry for ADHD medications at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visit https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / adhdmedications / .
Risk Summary Dexmethylphenidate is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate .
Published studies and postmarketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants use during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Embryo - fetal development studies in rats showed delayed fetal skeletal ossification at doses up to 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 20 mg / day given to adults based on plasma levels .
A decrease in pup weight in males was observed in a pre - and post - natal development study with oral administration of methylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses 5 times the MRHD of 20 mg / day given to adults based on plasma levels ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions CNS stimulants such as dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits , dexmethylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 20 and 100 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
No evidence of malformations was found in either the rat or rabbit study ; however , delayed fetal skeletal ossification was observed at the highest dose level in rats .
When dexmethylphenidate was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 20 mg / kg / day , post - weaning body weight gain was decreased in male offspring at the highest dose , but no other effects on postnatal development were observed .
At the highest doses tested , plasma levels [ area under the curve ( AUCs ) ] of dexmethylphenidate in pregnant rats and rabbits were approximately 5 and 1 times , respectively , those in adults dosed with 20 mg / day .
Plasma levels in adults were comparatively similar to plasma levels in adolescents .
Racemic methylphenidate has been shown to cause malformations ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) in rabbits when given in doses of 200 mg / kg / day throughout organogenesis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Dexmethylphenidate is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate .
Limited published literature , based on milk sampling from seven mothers reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , insomnia , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in pediatric patients less than 6 years have not been established .
The safety and effectiveness of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release for the treatment of ADHD have been established in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years in two adequate and well - controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The long - term efficacy of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in pediatric patients has not been established .
Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with racemic methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 6 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
In a study conducted in young rats , racemic methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal Day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal Week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal Weeks 13 - 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day of racemic methylphenidate given to children on a mg / m 2 basis ) or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was seen in females exposed to the highest dose ( 8 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 5 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release has not been studied in the geriatric population .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release contains dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride , a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is characterized by impaired control over drug use despite harm , and craving .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Abusers of CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which may result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of CNS stimulants including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release use .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance Tolerance ( a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ’ s desired and / or undesired effects over time ) can occur during chronic therapy with CNS stimulants , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Dependence Physical dependence ( which is manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist ) may occur in patients treated with CNS stimulants including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
10 OVERDOSAGE Human Experience Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdosage , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
Overdose Management Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for the latest recommendations 11 DESCRIPTION Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release contains dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride , a CNS stimulant .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is an extended - release formulation of dexmethylphenidate with a bi - modal release profile .
Each bead - filled dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsule contains half the dose as immediate - release beads and half as enteric - coated , delayed - release beads , thus providing an immediate release of dexmethylphenidate and a delayed release of dexmethylphenidate .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is intended for oral administration and is is available as 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 25 mg , 30 mg , 35 mg and 40 mg extended - release capsules .
Chemically , dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate hydrochloride , ( R , R ’ ) - ( + ) - .
Its molecular formula is C14H19NO2 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note * = asymmetric carbon center Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a white to off white powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Its molecular weight is 269 . 77 g / mol .
Inactive ingredients methacrylic acid copolymer , amino methacrylate copolymer , triethyl citrate , talc , sugar spheres , polyethylene glycol , gelatin , titanium dioxide and black ink .
The black ink contains shellac glaze , iron oxide black , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 , FD & C Red # 40 and D & C Yellow # 10 .
The 5 mg also contains FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Red # 3 .
The 10 mg contains FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 15 mg contains FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 25 mg , 30 mg , 35 mg and 40 mg contains yellow iron oxide .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Dexmethylphenidate is the more pharmacologically active d - enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the recommended maximum total daily dosage of 40 mg , dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release does not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release produces a bi - modal plasma concentration - time profile ( i . e . , 2 distinct peaks approximately 4 hours apart ) when orally administered to healthy adults .
The initial rate of absorption for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is similar to that of dexmethylphenidate tablets as shown by the similar rate parameters between the 2 formulations , i . e . , first peak concentration ( Cmax1 ) , and time to the first peak ( tmax1 ) , which is reached in 1 . 5 hours ( typical range 1 - 4 hours ) .
The mean time to the interpeak minimum ( tminip ) is slightly shorter , and time to the second peak ( tmax2 ) is slightly longer for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release given once daily ( about 6 . 5 hours , range 4 . 5 - 7 hours ) compared to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets given in 2 doses 4 hours apart ( see Figure 1 ) , although the ranges observed are greater for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release given once daily exhibits a lower second peak concentration ( Cmax2 ) , higher interpeak minimum concentrations ( Cminip ) , and fewer peak and trough fluctuations than dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets given in 2 doses given 4 hours apart .
This is due to an earlier onset and more prolonged absorption from the delayed - release beads ( see Figure 1 ) .
The ratio of geometric mean of AUC ( 0 - inf ) and Cmax after administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release given once daily are 1 . 02 and 0 . 86 respectively , to the same total dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets given in 2 doses 4 hours apart .
The variability in Cmax , Cmin , and AUC is similar between dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and dexmethylphenidate immediate - release tablets with approximately a 3 - fold range in each .
Approximately 90 % of the dose is absorbed after oral administration of radiolabeled racemic methylphenidate .
However , due to first pass metabolism the mean absolute bioavailability of dexmethylphenidate when administered in various formulations was 22 % to 25 % .
Figure 1 Mean Dexmethylphenidate Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles After Administration of 1 x 20 mg Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release ( n = 24 ) Capsules and 2 x 10 mg Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Immediate - Release Tablets ( n = 25 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] After single dose administration , dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release demonstrated dose proportional pharmacokinetics ( PK ) in the range of 5 mg to 40 mg .
For patients unable to swallow the capsule , the contents may be sprinkled on applesauce and administered [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Distribution The plasma protein binding of dexmethylphenidate is not known ; racemic methylphenidate is bound to plasma proteins by 12 % to 15 % , independent of concentration .
Dexmethylphenidate shows a volume of distribution of 2 . 65 ± 1 . 11 L / kg .
Elimination Plasma dexmethylphenidate concentrations decline monophasically following oral administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
The mean terminal elimination half - life of dexmethylphenidate was about 3 hours in healthy adults .
Pediatric patients tend to have slightly shorter half - lives with means of 2 to 3 hours .
Dexmethylphenidate was eliminated with a mean clearance of 0 . 40 ± 0 . 12 L / hr / kg after intravenous administration .
Metabolism In humans , dexmethylphenidate is metabolized primarily via de - esterification to d - α - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( also known as d - ritalinic acid ) .
This metabolite has little or no pharmacological activity .
There is no in vivo interconversion to the l - threo - enantiomer .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled racemic methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite of racemic dl - methylphenidate was dl - ritalinic acid , accountable for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Urinary excretion of parent compound accounted for 0 . 5 % of an intravenous dose .
Studies in Specific Populations Male and Female Patients After administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , the first peak , ( Cmax1 ) was on average 45 % higher in women .
The interpeak minimum and the second peak also tended to be slightly higher in women although the difference was not statistically significant , and these patterns remained even after weight normalization .
Racial or Ethnic Groups There is insufficient experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Pediatric Patients The pharmacokinetics of dexmethylphenidate after dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release administration have not been studied in pediatrics less than 18 years of age .
When a similar formulation of racemic methylphenidate was examined in 15 patients between 10 and 12 years of age and 3 patients with ADHD between 7 and 9 years of age , the time to the first peak was similar , although the time until the between peak minimum , and the time until the second peak were delayed and more variable in pediatric patients compared to adults .
After administration of the same dose to pediatric patients and adults , concentrations in pediatric patients were approximately twice the concentrations observed in adults .
This higher exposure is almost completely due to smaller body size as no relevant age - related differences in dexmethylphenidate pharmacokinetic parameters ( i . e . , clearance and volume of distribution ) are observed after normalization to dose and weight .
Patients with Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in patients with renal impairment .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate elimination , renal impairment is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies Methylphenidate is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) isoenzymes to a clinically relevant extent .
Inducers or inhibitors of CYPs are not expected to have any relevant impact on methylphenidate pharmacokinetics .
Conversely , the d - and l - enantiomers of methylphenidate did not relevantly inhibit CYP1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 or 3 A .
Clinically , methylphenidate coadministration did not increase plasma concentrations of the CYP2D6 substrate desipramine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Lifetime carcinogenicity studies have not been carried out with dexmethylphenidate .
In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , racemic methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas , and in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas was seen at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 2 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day of racemic methylphenidate given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Racemic methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 4 times the MRHD ( children ) of 60 mg / day racemic methylphenidate in children on a mg / m2 basis .
In a 24 - week carcinogenicity study with racemic methylphenidate in the transgenic mouse strain p53 + / - , which is sensitive to genotoxic carcinogens , there was no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Male and female mice were fed diets containing the same concentrations as in the lifetime carcinogenicity study ; the high - dose group was exposed to 60 to 74 mg / kg / day of racemic methylphenidate .
Mutagenesis Dexmethylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay , in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , or in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus test .
In an in vitro assay using cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary cells treated with racemic methylphenidate , sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response .
Impairment of Fertility No human data on the effect of methylphenidate on fertility are available .
Fertility studies have not been conducted with dexmethylphenidate .
Racemic methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week continuous breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses of up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day of racemic methylphenidate given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Pediatric Patients A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study ( Study 1 ) was conducted in 103 pediatric patients ( ages 6 to 12 , n = 86 ; ages 13 to 17 , n = 17 ) who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD inattentive , hyperactive - impulsive or combined inattentive / hyperactive - impulsive subtypes ( Study 1 ) .
Patients were randomized to receive either a flexible - dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( 5 to 30 mg / day ) or placebo once daily for 7 weeks .
During the first 5 weeks of treatment patients were titrated to their optimal dose and remained on this optimal dose for the last 2 weeks of the study without dose changes or interruption .
Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated by comparing the mean change from baseline to endpoint for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and placebo - treated patients using an intent - to - treat analysis of the primary efficacy outcome measure , the DSM - IV total subscale score of the Conners ADHD / DSM - IV Scales for teachers ( CADS - T ) .
The CADS - T includes the ADHD Index ( 12 items ) and the DSM - IV total subscale ( 18 items , total score range : 0 to 54 ) ; the latter is divided into inattentive ( 9 items ) and hyperactive - impulsive ( 9 items ) subscales .
Teachers assessed behavior observed during the school day by completing the CADS - T weekly .
A decrease in the CADS - T DSM - IV total subscale score from baseline indicates improvement .
The CADS - T total scores showed a statistically significant treatment effect in favor of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release than placebo ( Table 6 ) .
There were insufficient adolescents enrolled in this study to assess the efficacy for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in the adolescent population .
However , pharmacokinetic considerations and evidence of effectiveness of immediate - release dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride in adolescents support the effectiveness of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in this population .
Table 6 : Summary of Efficacy Results from ADHD Study in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 17 years ) ( Study 1 ) Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure : CADS - T Total Score Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 5 to 30 mg / day ( n = 52 ) 33 . 3 ( 9 . 18 ) 16 . 41 ( 1 . 8 ) 10 . 64 ( 5 . 38 , 15 . 91 ) Placebo ( n = 45 ) 34 . 9 ( 10 . 03 ) 5 . 77 ( 1 . 93 ) -- Abbreviations : ADHD , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ; SD , standard deviation ; SE , standard error ; LS Mean , least - squares mean ; CI , confidence interval , not adjusted for multiple comparisons .
aDifference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
In 2 additional cross - over studies ( Studies 2 and 3 ) in pediatric patients aged 6 to 12 years who received 20 mg dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release or placebo , dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release was found to have a statistically significant treatment effect versus placebo on the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M - Flynn & Pelham ( SKAMP ) rating scale total scores at all - time points after dosing in each study ( 0 . 5 , 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 hours in Study 2 and 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 hours in the Study 3 ) .
SKAMP is a validated 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
A treatment effect was also observed 0 . 5 hours after administration of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release 20 mg in an additional study of ADHD patients aged 6 to 12 years .
14 . 2 Adult Patients A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group ( Study 4 ) was conducted in 221 adult patients ( ages 18 to 60 ) years who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD inattentive , hyperactive - impulsive or combined inattentive / hyperactive - impulsive subtypes ( Study 4 ) .
Patients were randomized to receive either a fixed dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( 20 , 30 , or 40 mg / day ) or placebo once daily for 5 weeks .
Patients randomized to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release were initiated on a 10 mg / day starting dose and titrated in increments of 10 mg / week to the randomly assigned fixed dose .
Patients were maintained on their fixed dose ( 20 , 30 or 40 mg / day ) for a minimum of 2 weeks .
Signs and symptoms of ADHD were evaluated by comparing the mean change from baseline to endpoint for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and placebo - treated patients using an intent - to - treat analysis of the primary efficacy outcome measure , the investigator - administered DSM - IV Attention - Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale ( DSM - IV ADHD RS ) .
The DSM - IV ADHD - RS is an 18 - item questionnaire with a score range of 0 to 54 points that measures the core symptoms of ADHD and includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
All 3 dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release doses ( 20 , 30 or 40 mg / day ) showed a statistically significant reatment effect compared to placebo .
There was no obvious increase in effectiveness with increasing the dose .
Table 7 : Summary of Efficacy Results from ADHD Study in Adults ( Study 4 ) Study Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure : ADHD - RS Total Score Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Differencea ( 95 % CI ) Study 4 Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 20 mg / day ( n = 57 ) 36 . 8 ( 7 . 2 ) 13 . 27 ( 1 . 44 ) 5 . 71 ( 1 . 64 , 9 . 78 ) Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 30 mg / day ( n = 54 ) 36 . 9 ( 8 . 07 ) 12 . 86 ( 1 . 48 ) 5 . 31 ( 1 . 18 , 9 . 44 ) Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release 40 mg / day ( n = 54 ) 36 . 9 ( 8 . 25 ) 16 . 51 ( 1 . 48 ) 8 . 96 ( 4 . 83 , 13 . 08 ) Placebo ( n = 53 ) 37 . 5 ( 7 . 82 ) 7 . 55 ( 1 . 49 ) -- Abbreviations : ADHD , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ; SD , standard deviation ; SE , standard error ; LS Mean , least - squares mean ; CI , confidence interval , not adjusted for multiple comparisons .
aDifference ( drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
16 HOW SUPPLIED Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules are available as follows : 40 mg Extended - Release Capsules ( NDC 63629 - 2177 - 1 ) white opaque body with a yellow transparent cap printed with “ par ” on capsule and 546 on body in black ink supplied in bottles of 100 .
Store dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release with an undesirable , non - toxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / High Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients that dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is a controlled substance , and it can be abused and lead to dependence .
Instruct patients that they should not give dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release to anyone else .
Advise patients to store dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release by a medicine take - back program if available [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients that there is a potential serious cardiovascular risk including sudden death , myocardial infarction , stroke , and hypertension with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release use .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Instruct patients that dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release can cause elevations of their blood pressure and pulse rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients that dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without prior history of psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct them to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes ( Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s Phenomenon ) Instruct patients beginning treatment with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients that dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release may cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in patients exposed to ADHD medications , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
MEDICATION GUIDE MEDICATION GUIDE Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules CII ( Dex - meth - ill - FEN - ĭ - date Hī - dro - KLOR - īd ) What is the most important information I should know about dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is a federal controlled substance ( CII ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you or your child have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
The following have been reported with use of methylphenidate hydrochloride and other stimulant medicines : • Heart - related problems : • sudden death in patients who have heart problems or heart defects • stroke and heart attack in adults • increased blood pressure and heart rate Tell your doctor if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your doctor should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Your doctor should check you or your child ’ s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Call your doctor right away if you or your child has any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - releasecapsules .
• Mental ( Psychiatric ) problems : All Patients • · new or worse behavior and thought problems • · new or worse bipolar illness • · new or worse aggressive behavior or hostility • · new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , believing things that are not true , are suspicious ) or new manic symptoms Tell your doctor about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your doctor right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - releasecapsules , especially seeing or hearing things that are not real , believing things that are not real , or are suspicious .
What is dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ?
• Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is a central nervous system stimulant ( CNS ) prescription medicine .
It is used for the treatment of Attention - Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in patients with ADHD .
• Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release should be used as a part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include counseling or other therapies .
Who should not take dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - releasecapsules ?
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules should not be taken if you or your child : • are allergic to methylphenidate hydrochloride , or any of the ingredients in dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
• are taking or have taken within the past 14 days an anti - depression medicine called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules may not be right for you or your child .
Before starting dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules tell your or your child ’ s doctor about all health conditions ( or a family history of ) including : • heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression • circulation problems in fingers or toes • if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release will harm your unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to ADHD medications , including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry of ADHD medications at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 or visit online at https : / / womensmentalhealth . org / adhd - medications / .
• if you are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed the baby during treatment with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines that you or your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Your doctor will decide whether dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your doctor if you or your child takes : • anti - depression medicines including MAOIs • blood pressure medicines ( anti - hypertensive ) Know the medicines that you or your child takes .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist .
• You should not take dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release on the day of your operation if a certain type of anesthetic is used .
This is because there is a chance of a sudden rise in blood pressure and heart rate during the operation .
Do not start any new medicine while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - releasecapsules without talking to your doctor first .
How should dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsulesbe taken ?
• Take dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release exactly as prescribed .
Your doctor may adjust the dose until it is right for you or your child .
• Take dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release once each day in the morning .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release is an extended - release capsule .
• Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release can be taken with or without food .
Taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release with food may slow the time it takes for the medicine to start working .
• Swallow dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules whole with water or other liquids .
Do not chew , crush , or divide the capsules or the beads in the capsule .
If you or your child cannot swallow the capsule , open it and sprinkle the small beads of medicine over a spoonful of applesauce and swallow it right away without chewing .
• From time to time , your doctor may stop dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• Your doctor may do regular checks of the blood , heart , and blood pressure while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
• Children should have their height and weight checked often while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release treatment may be stopped if a problem is found during these check - ups .
• In case of poisoning call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 right away , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - releasecapsules ?
Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ? ”
for information on reported heart and mental problems .
• painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) have occurred with methylphenidate .
If you or your child develops priapism , seek medical help right away .
Because of the potential for lasting damage , priapism should be evaluated by a doctor immediately .
• circulation problems in fingers and toes ( Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ’ s phenomenon ) : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your doctor if you or your child have , numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes .
• Call your doctor right away if you have or your child has any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in childrenCommon side effects include : Children ( 6 to 17 years ) • dyspepsia ● decreased appetite ● headache ● anxietyAdults • dry mouth ● dyspepsia ● headache ● anxiety ● pharyngolaryngeal pain Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ?
• Store dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules in a safe place and in a tightly closed container at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release by a medicine take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away ( discard ) dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release in the household trash .
• Keep dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release that is written for healthcare professionals .
Do not use dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
What are the ingredients in dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Active Ingredient : dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : methacrylic acid copolymer , amino methacrylate copolymer , triethyl citrate , talc , sugar spheres , polyethylene glycol , gelatin , titanium dioxide and black ink .
The black ink contains shellac glaze , iron oxide black , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 , FD & C Red # 40 and D & C Yellow # 10 .
The 5 mg also contains FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Red # 3 .
The 10 mg contains FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 15 mg contains FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 25 mg , 30 mg , 35 mg and 40 mg contains yellow iron oxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
For Medication Guide , please visit www . parpharm . com .
Manufactured by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 R07 / 2021 Dexmethylphenidate Hcl 40 mg ( CII ) # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
