Active ingredient Piperonyl butoxide 4 % Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Purpose Lice treatment Warnings Do not use • near eyes • inside nose , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
Ask a doctor before use if you are • allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into eyes , flush with water right away • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Important : Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect • check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • examine small sections of hair at a time • unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair • if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat • apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
• allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer • use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse • for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) • use a fine - tooth or special lice / nit comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
• hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits • if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water • for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of the head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
• lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
• pin back each strand of hair after combing • clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
• after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
• check daily for any lice / nits that you missed • a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • do not freeze • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • to report serious side effects due to the use of this product call 515 - 276 - 1586 • see package insert for additional information Inactive ingredients ammonium laureth sulfate , fragrance , PEG - 25 hydrogenated castor oil , polyquaternium - 10 , purified water , SD - 40 alcohol Package Insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] LICE KILLING SHAMPOO For the treatment of Head Lice , Pubic ( Crab ) Lice and Body Lice DIRECTIONS Important : Read warnings before using this product .
A second treatment must be done in 7 - 10 days to kill anu newly hatched lice eggs ( nits ) Inspect examine each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / eggs ( nits ) look for tiny eggs ( nits ) near scalp , beginning at the back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair eggs ( nits ) stick to the hair if either lice or eggs ( nits ) are found , treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to dry hair or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck allow product to remain for 10 minutes but no longer use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles To Remove Lice and Their Eggs ( Nits ) use a special lice / nit or fine - toothed comb ( included ) .
Remove any remaining eggs ( nits ) by hand , using a throwaway glove hair should remain slightly damp while removing eggs ( nits ) if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of the head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb firm , even motion away from scalp pin back each strand of hair after combing clean comb often .
Wipe eggs ( nits ) away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / eggs ( nits ) .
Repeat combing if necessary check daily for any lice / eggs ( nits ) that you missed a second treatment must be done within 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice / eggs ( nits ) if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments 1 .
HEAD LICE head lice lay small white eggs ( nits ) on the hair shaft close to the scalp eggs ( nits ) are most easily found on the back of the neck or behind the ears disinfect hats , hair ribbons , scarves , coats , towels and bed linens by machine washing in hot water [ above 54 C ( 130 F ) ] , then using the hottest dryer setting for at least 20 minutes items that cannot be washed , dry cleaned or stored may be sprayed with a product designed for this purpose soak all combs and brushes in hot water [ above 54 C ( 130 F ) ] for at least 10 minutes vacuum all carpets , mattresses , upholstered furniture , and car seats that may have been used by affected people 2 .
PUBIC ( CRAB ) LICE pubic ( crab ) lice may be contracted by sexual contact sexual partners should be treated simultaneously to avoid reinfestation lice are very small and look like brown or grey dots on the skin pubic ( crab ) lice usually cause intense itching and lay small white eggs ( nits ) on the hair shaft generally close to the skin surface pubic ( crab ) lice may be present on the short hairs of the groin , thighs , trunk , and underarms , - and occasionally on the beard , eyelids , and mustache disinfect underwear by machine washing in hot water [ above 54 C ( 130 F ) ] , then using the hottest dryer setting for at least 20 minutes 3 .
BODY LICE body lice and their eggs ( nits ) are generally found in the seams of clothing , particularly in the waistline and armpit areas body lice feed on skin then return to clothing to lay their eggs ( nits ) disinfect clothing by machine washing in hot water [ above 54 C ( 130 F ) ] , then using the hottest dryer setting for at least 20 mintues do not seal clothing in a plastic bag because eggs ( nits ) can remain dormant for up to 30 days Save this insert for future reference [ MULTIMEDIA ]
