DESCRIPTION Gentamicin Sulfate is a water - soluble antibiotic of the aminoglycoside group .
Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution is a sterile , aqueous solution buffered to approximately pH 7 for ophthalmic use .
Gentamicin is obtained from cultures of Micromonospora purpurea .
It is a mixture of the sulfate salts of gentamicin C 1 , C 2 , and C 1 A .
All three components appear to have similar antimicrobial activities .
Gentamicin sulfate occurs as white powder and is soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
The structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Established name : Gentamicin Sulfate Chemical name : 0 - 3 - Deoxy - 4 - C - methyl - 3 - ( methylamino ) - β - L - arabinopyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) - 0 - [ 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 - tetradeoxy - α - D - erythro - hexopyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) ] - 2 - deoxy - D - streptamine .
Ingredients : Each mL contains : Active : Gentamicin Sulfate USP ( equivalent to 3 mg gentamicin ) .
Preservative : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Inactives : Sodium Chloride , Dried Sodium Phosphate , Tyloxapol , Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid ( to adjust pH ) and Purified Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology : Gentamicin sulfate is active in vitro against many strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections , including conjunctivitis , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , acute meibomianitis , and dacryocystitis caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Serratia marcescens .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
PRECAUTIONS General Prolonged use of topical antibiotics may give rise to overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to gentamicin may also develop .
If purulent discharge , inflammation or pain becomes aggravated , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
If irritation or hypersensitivity to any component of the drug develops , the patient should discontinue use of this preparation , and appropriate therapy should be instituted .
Information for Patients To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to the eye , eyelid , or any surface .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no published carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility studies on gentamicin .
Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to be non - mutagenic .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Gentamicin has been shown to depress body weights , kidney weights , and median glomerular counts in newborn rats when administered systemically to pregnant rats in daily doses approximately 500 times the maximum recommended ophthalmic human dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Gentamicin should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in neonates have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with gentamicin ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are ocular burning and irritation upon drug instillation , non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival epithelial defects , and conjunctival hyperemia .
Other adverse reactions which have occurred rarely are allergic reactions , thrombocytopenic purpura , and hallucinations .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops into the affected eye ( s ) every four hours .
In severe infections , dosage may be increased to as much as two drops once every hour .
HOW SUPPLIED Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution : 5 mL in plastic DROP - TAINER * dispenser .
NDC 68071 - 4775 - 5 STORAGE : Protect from light and store away from heat .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
* DROP - TAINER is a registered trademark of Alcon Research , Ltd .
Rx Only 9007184 - 1011 Manufactured By Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Rev . December 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
