Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 1 % Oral Pain Reliever Use for the temporary relief of pain due to • canker sores • minor injury of the mouth and gums • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cuse methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly becasue it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness or breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy Alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics Flammable : keep away from fire or flame .
Avoid smoking during application .
Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a physician if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • remove imprinted safety seal from bottle cap Adults and children 2 years of age and over • Apply product with cotton swab or finger to the affected area .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children under 12 years of age • Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age • Do not use Other Information • do not use if safety seal on bottle cap is broken or missing prior to opening Inactive Ingredients alcohol ( 54 . 5 % by volume ) , flavor , PEG - 8 , red 40 , sodium saccarin , water , yellow 5 Questions or comment ?
Call us at 800 952 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm or visit our website at www orajel . com # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIEVER BRAND FOR TOOTHACHE Fast - Acting Liquid !
Orajel MEDICATED FOR TOOTHACHE & GUM Instant Pain Relief • 20 % Benzocaine to Relieve Oral Pain • Menthol to Soothe Gums CANKER SORES • CHEEK BITES • DENTURE PAIN IRRITATION FROM BRACES ORAL PAIN RELIEVER 0 . 45 FL OZ ( 13 . 3 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] ws [ MULTIMEDIA ]
