Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal Decongestant Uses temporarily relieves • ▪ nasal congestion due to a cold , heavy fever , or other upper respiratory allergies • ▪ Sinus congestion and pressure Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ heart disease • ▪ high blood pressure • ▪ diabetes • ▪ thyroid disease • ▪ trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • ▪ do not exceed recommended dosage • ▪ do not use this product for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen .
• ▪ temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • ▪ use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if • • symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • ▪ adults & children 6 years & older ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 - hour period .
• ▪ Children 2 to under 6 years : ask a doctor • ▪ Children 2 years : ask a doctor Shake well before use .
Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip by pressing and twisting off the cap .
Rotate the lock tab to align arrow marks to unlock the pump .
Prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times .
To spray , hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers without titling head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Fully depress rim with a firm , even stroke and sniff deeply .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Lock the pump by ensuring that arrow marks are not aligned and replace the protective cap on tip .
Other information • ▪ store at room temperature Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , camphor , edetate disodium , eucalyptol , menthol , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 467 - 2748 Principal Display Panel Best Choice ® NDC # 63941 - 726 - 30 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN VICKS ® SINEX ® * 12 HOUR SINUS RELIEF OXYMETAZOLINE HCl 0 . 05 % NASAL DECONGESTANT Ultra - Fine Mist For Sinus Relief • • Cold & allergy congestion • • Sinus pressure 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) IMPORTANT : KEEP THE CARTON FOR FUTURE REFERENCE ON FULL LABELING Best Choice ® 100 % Guaranteed www . bestchoicebrand . com PROUDLY DISTRIBUTED BY : VALU MERCHANDISERS , CO .
5000 KANSAS AVE KANSAS CITY , KS 66106 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter and Gamble , the distributer of Vicks ® Sinex ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
