[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Protect from light .
Keep ampules in carton until time of use .
BOXED WARNING WARNING — INTRAVENOUS AND INTRAMUSCULAR USE Severe reactions , including fatalities , have occurred during and immediately after INTRAVENOUS injection of phytonadione , even when precautions have been taken to dilute the phytonadione and to avoid rapid infusion .
Severe reactions , including fatalities , have also been reported following INTRAMUSCULAR administration .
Typically these severe reactions have resembled hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis , including shock and cardiac and / or respiratory arrest .
Some patients have exhibited these severe reactions on receiving phytonadione for the first time . Therefore the INTRAVENOUS and INTRAMUSCULAR routes should be restricted to those situations where the subcutaneous route is not feasible and the serious risk involved is considered justified .
DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin , which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , odorless or nearly odorlessliquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C31H46O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Phytonadione injectable emulsion , USP is a yellow , sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous dispersion available for injection by the intravenous , intramuscular and subcutaneous routes .
Each milliliter contains phytonadione 10 mg , polyoxyethylated fatty acid derivative 70 mg , dextrose , hydrous 37 . 5 mg in water for injection ; benzyl alcohol 9 mg added as preservative .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
pH is 6 . 3 ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
Phytonadione is oxygen sensitive .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phytonadione injectable emulsion , is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by Vitamin K deficiency or interference with Vitamin K activity .
Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in : • anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn ; • hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of Vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; • other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with phytonadione metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione injectable emulsion , USP is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by Vitamin K deficiency or interference with Vitamin K activity .
Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in • anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; • prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn ; • hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of Vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; • other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with phytonadione injectable emulsion metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol as a preservative in Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Data are unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group .
There is no evidence to suggest that the small amount of benzyl alcohol contained in phytonadione injectable emulsion , USP , when used as recommended , is associated with toxicity .
An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione .
It takes a minimum of 1 to 2 hours for measurable improvement in the prothrombin time .
Whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe .
Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin .
When Phytonadione is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with phytonadione injectable emulsion may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate . Repeated large doses of Vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to Vitamin K may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to Vitamin K . Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal “ Gasping Syndrome ” in premature infants .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they required large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants may result , especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used .
If relatively large doses have been employed , it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin - depressing anticoagulant , or to use one which acts on a different principle , such as heparin sodium .
Laboratory Tests Prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility have not been conducted with phytonadione injectable emulsion .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phytonadione injectable emulsion It is also not known whether phytonadione injectable emulsion can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phytonadione injectable emulsion should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when phytonadione injectable emulsion is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in neonates , particularly those that are premature , may be related to the dose of phytonadione injectable emulsion .
Therefore , the recommended dose should not be exceeded ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Deaths have occurred after intravenous and intramuscular administration .
( See Box Warning . )
Transient “ flushing sensations ” and “ peculiar ” sensations of taste have been observed , as well as rare instances of dizziness , rapid and weak pulse , profuse sweating , brief hypotension , dyspnea , and cyanosis .
Pain , swelling , and tenderness at the injection site may occur .
The possibility of allergic sensitivity including an anaphylactoid reaction , should be kept in mind .
Infrequently , usually after repeated injection , erythematous , indurated , pruritic plaques have occurred ; rarely , these have progressed to scleroderma - like lesions that have persisted for long periods .
In other cases , these lesions have resembled erythema perstans .
Hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the newborn following administration of phytonadione .
This has occurred rarely and primarily with doses above those recommended .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous LD50 of phytonadione injectable emulsion in the mouse is 41 . 5 and 52 mL / kg for the 0 . 2 % and 1 % concentrations , respectively DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Whenever possible , phytonadione injectable emulsion , should be given by the subcutaneous route .
( See Box Warning . )
When intravenous administration is considered unavoidable , the drug should be injected very slowly , not exceeding 1 mg per minute .
Protect from light at all times .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Directions for Dilution Phytonadione injectable emulsion may be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection .
Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Therefore , all of the above diluents should be preservative - free ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other diluents should not be used .
When dilutions are indicated , administration should be startedimmediately after mixture with the diluent , and unused portions of the dilution should be discarded , as well as unused contents of the ampule .
Prophylaxis of Hemorrhagic Diseas e of the Newborn The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that phytonadione be given to the newborn .
A single intramuscular dose of phytonadione injectable emulsion 0 . 5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended .
Treatment of Hemorrhagic Diseas e of the Newborn Empiric administration of phytonadione should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism .
A prompt response ( shortening of the prothrombin time in 2 to 4 hours ) following administration of phytonadione is usually diagnostic of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn , and failure to respond indicates another diagnosis or coagulation disorder .
Phytonadione injectable emulsion 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants .
Whole blood or component therapy may be indicated if bleeding is excessive .
This therapy , however , does not correct the underlying disorder and phytonadione injectable emulsion should be given concurrently .
Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant therapy — 2 . 5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended .
In rare instances 50 mg may be required .
Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition ( see WARNINGS ) .
If in 6 to 8 hours after parenteral administration the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily , the dose should be repeated .
Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP Summary of Dosage Guidelines ( See circular text for details ) Newborns Dosage Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn Prophylaxis 0 . 5 to 1 mg IM within 1 hour of birth Treatment 1 mg SC or It ( Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants ) Adults Initial Dosage Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency ( caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ) 2 . 5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg ( rarely 50 mg ) Hypoprothrombinemia Due to other causes ( Antibiotics ; Salicylates or other drugs ; Factors limiting absorption or synthesis ) 2 . 5 mg to 25 mg ormore ( rarely up to 50 mg ) In the event of shock or excessive blood loss , the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated .
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults A dosage of 2 . 5 to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) is recommended , the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained .
If possible , discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms ( such as salicylates ; antibiotics ) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione injectable emulsion .
The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione injectable emulsion is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs .
HOW SUPPLIED Phytonadione injectable emulsion , USP is supplied as follows : For Carton : Package Description NDC 25 x 1 mL Ampules 43598 - 405 - 16 For Ampule : Package Description Amount of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion In Container Volume Concentration NDC 1 mL Ampule 10 mg 1 mL 10 mg / mL 43598 - 405 - 11 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Keep ampules in carton until time of use .
Rx Only Distributor : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Made in India Issued : 0519 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION Ampule Unvarnished Area Consists of : 2 D Barcode , Lot Number , Expiry Date and Serial Number [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Unvarnished Area Consists of : 2 D Barcode , Lot Number , Expiry Date and Serial Number [ MULTIMEDIA ]
