Active ingredient Phenol 1 . 4 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic / Analgesic Uses temporarily relieves sore throat pain , sore mouth , pain associated with canker sores , minor mouth irritation Warnings Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat that occurs with high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Ask a doctor right away .
Do not use more than 2 days or give to children under 3 years of age .
When using this product , do not use more than directed .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • • swelling , rash or fever develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or accidental poisoning , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • Adults and children 6 years of age and older : • • Apply to the affected area ( one spray ) • • Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds , then spit out • • Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor • NaNChildren under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product Other information • • Store at room temperature • • Check expiration date before using Inactive ingredients D & C Green # 5 , D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Green # 3 , flavor , glycerin , purified water , sucralose Principal Display Panel * Compare to the active ingredient in Chloraseptic ® * Sore Throat Relief Menthol Flavor Fast acting relief of Minor Sore Throat and Mouth Pain Phenol / Oral Anesthetic Sugar - Free Aspirin - Free Gluten - Free Alcohol - Free 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Medtech Products Inc . , a Prestige Brands Co . , distributor of Chloraseptic ® .
Tamper - Evident : Do not use if imprinted shrink band is broken or missing .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Chain Drug Consortium LLC .
3301 N . W . Boca Raton Blvd .
Suite 101 , Boca Raton FL 33431 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
