1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omegaven is indicated as a source of calories and fatty acids in pediatric patients with parenteral nutrition - associated cholestasis ( PNAC ) .
Limitations of Use : • Omegaven is not indicated for the prevention of PNAC .
It has not been demonstrated that Omegaven prevents PNAC in parenteral nutrition ( PN ) - dependent patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• It has not been demonstrated that the clinical outcomes observed in patients treated with Omegaven are a result of the omega - 6 : omega - 3 fatty acid ratio of the product [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Omegaven is indicated as a source of calories and fatty acids in pediatric patients with parenteral nutrition - associated cholestasis ( PNAC ) .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Omegaven is not indicated for the prevention of PNAC .
It has not been demonstrated that Omegaven prevents PNAC in parenteral nutrition ( PN ) - dependent patients .
( 1 ) • It has not been demonstrated that the clinical outcomes observed in patients treated with Omegaven are a result of the omega - 6 : omega - 3 fatty acid ratio of the product .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For infusion into a central or peripheral vein .
( 2 . 1 ) • May be infused directly from the bottle or admixed in a parenteral nutrition ( PN ) container .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Protect the admixed PN solution from light .
( 2 . 2 ) • Prior to administration , correct severe fluid and electrolyte disorders and measure serum triglycerides to establish a baseline level .
( 2 . 3 ) • Initiate dosing in PN - dependent pediatric patients as soon as direct or conjugated bilirubin levels are 2 mg / dL or greater .
( 2 . 3 ) • Recommended dosage depends on age , energy expenditure , clinical status , body weight , tolerance , ability to metabolize , and consideration of additional energy sources given to the patient .
( 2 . 3 ) • The recommended daily dose ( and the maximum dose ) in pediatric patients is 1 g / kg / day .
( 2 . 3 ) • For information on infusion rate when initiating dosing and in patients with elevated triglyceride levels , see the full prescribing information .
( 2 . 3 ) • The recommended duration for infusion is between 8 and 24 hours , depending on the clinical situation .
( 2 . 3 ) • Administer Omegaven until direct or conjugated bilirubin levels are less than 2 mg / dL or until the patient no longer requires PN .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Administration Instructions • Omegaven can be administered alone or as part of a PN admixture .
• Omegaven is for central or peripheral intravenous infusion .
When administered with dextrose and amino acids , the choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate .
Solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm / L or greater must be infused through a central vein .
• Use a 1 . 2 micron in - line filter during administration .
• Use a dedicated line for PN .
Omegaven should be infused concurrently into the same vein as dextrose - amino acid solutions ( as part of PN ) by a Y - connector located closest to the infusion site ; flow rates of each solution should be controlled separately by infusion pumps .
Avoid multiple connections ; do not connect multiple medications in series .
Turn off the pump before the bottle runs dry .
• Use a vented infusion set when Omegaven is infused from the bottle .
• Do not use infusion sets and lines that contain di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) .
Infusion sets that contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components have DEHP as a plasticizer .
• Prior to infusion , visually inspect Omegaven for particulate matter and discoloration .
Discard the bottle if any particulates or discoloration are observed .
• Gently invert the bottle before use .
Use Omegaven only if the emulsion is homogeneous and the container is undamaged .
• Strict aseptic techniques must be followed .
• Hang the bottle using the attached hanger and start infusion .
• After connecting the infusion set , start infusion of Omegaven immediately .
Complete the infusion within 12 hours when using a Y - connector and within 24 hours when used as part of an admixture .
• For single use only .
Discard unused portion .
2 . 2 Admixing Instructions If Omegaven is administered as part of a PN admixture , follow the instructions below .
• Prepare the admixture in PN containers using strict aseptic techniques to avoid microbial contamination .
• Do not add Omegaven directly to the empty PN container ; destabilization of the lipid emulsion may occur .
• When Omegaven is administered with other infusion solutions ( e . g . , amino acids , dextrose ) , the compatibility of the solutions used must be ensured .
Questions related to compatibility may be directed to Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC , at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 .
• The following proper mixing sequence must be followed to minimize pH - related problems by ensuring that typically acidic dextrose solutions are not mixed with lipid emulsions alone : • Transfer dextrose solution to the PN container .
• Transfer amino acid solution to the PN container .
• Transfer Omegaven to the PN container . Simultaneous transfer of amino acid solution , dextrose solution , and Omegaven using an automated compounding device is also permitted ; follow automated compounding device instructions as indicated .
Use gentle agitation during admixing to minimize localized concentration effects ; shake container gently after each addition .
• The prime destabilizers of emulsions are excessive acidity ( such as a pH less than 5 ) and inappropriate electrolyte content .
Care should be taken if adding divalent cations ( e . g . , Ca + + and Mg + + ) , which have been shown to cause emulsion instability .
Amino acid solutions exert buffering effects that can protect the emulsion from destabilization .
• Inspect the admixture to ensure that precipitates have not formed during preparation of the admixture and the emulsion has not separated .
Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the admixture .
Discard the admixture if any of these are observed .
Stability and Storage • Protect the admixed PN solution from light .
• Start infusion of admixtures containing Omegaven immediately .
If not used immediately , admixtures may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature or up to 24 hours under refrigeration .
Complete the infusion within 24 hours after removal from storage .
• Any remaining contents of a partly used PN container must be discarded .
• Follow the instructions of each product included in the admixture .
2 . 3 Dosing Information Dosing Considerations • Prior to administration of Omegaven , correct severe fluid and electrolyte disorders and measure serum triglycerides to establish a baseline level .
• Initiate Omegaven dosing as soon as direct or conjugated bilirubin ( DBil ) levels are 2 mg / dL or greater in pediatric patients who are expected to be PN - dependent for at least 2 weeks .
• The dosing of Omegaven depends on each patient ' s energy requirements , which may be influenced by age , body weight , tolerance , clinical status , and ability to metabolize and eliminate lipids .
• When determining dose , take into account the energy supplied by dextrose and amino acids from PN , as well as energy from oral or enteral nutrition .
Energy provided from lipid - based medications must also be taken into account ( e . g . , propofol ) .
• Omegaven contains 0 . 15 to 0 . 30 mg / mL of dl - alpha - tocopherol .
Take into account the amount of alpha - tocopherol in Omegaven when determining the need for additional supplementation of vitamin E . Recommended Pediatric Dosing • The recommended Omegaven dosage for pediatric patients is 1 g / kg / day ; this is also the maximum daily dose .
• The initial rate of infusion should not exceed 0 . 05 mL / minute for the first 15 to 30 minutes of infusion .
If tolerated , gradually increase until reaching the required rate after 30 minutes .
The maximum infusion rate should not exceed 1 . 5 mL / kg / hour , corresponding to 0 . 15 g / kg / hour .
• If hypertriglyceridemia ( triglycerides greater than 250 mg / dL in neonates and infants or greater than 400 mg / dL in older children ) develops once Omegaven has been initiated at the recommended dosage , consider stopping the administration of Omegaven for 4 hours and obtain a repeat serum triglyceride level .
Resume Omegaven based on new result as indicated .
• In patients with elevated triglyceride levels , consider other reasons for hypertriglyceridemia ( e . g . , renal disease , other drugs ) .
If triglycerides remain at elevated levels , consider a reduced dose of 0 . 5 g to 0 . 75 g / kg / day with an incremental increase to 1 g / kg / day .
• Monitor triglyceride levels during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
• The recommended duration for infusion of Omegaven is between 8 and 24 hours , depending on the clinical situation .
• Administer Omegaven until DBil levels are less than 2 mg / dL or until the patient no longer requires PN .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injectable Emulsion : 5 g / 50 mL and 10 g / 100 mL ( 0 . 1 g / mL ) sterile , white , homogenous emulsion in a 50 - mL and 100 - mL single - dose bottle .
Injectable Emulsion : 5 g / 50 mL and 10 g / 100 mL ( 0 . 1 g / mL ) in a single - dose bottle .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of Omegaven is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to fish or egg protein or to any of the active ingredients or excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Severe hemorrhagic disorders due to a potential effect on platelet aggregation .
• Severe hyperlipidemia or severe disorders of lipid metabolism characterized by hypertriglyceridemia ( serum triglyceride concentrations greater than 1 , 000 mg / dL ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to fish or egg protein or to any of the active ingredients or excipients .
( 4 ) • Severe hemorrhagic disorders .
( 4 ) • Severe hyperlipidemia or severe disorders of lipid metabolism with serum triglycerides greater than 1 , 000 mg / dL .
( 4 , 5 . 6 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of Death in Preterm Infants due to Pulmonary Lipid Accumulation : Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous soybean oil - based lipid emulsions have been reported in literature , and autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs .
Risk with Omegaven is unknown .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of pleural or pericardial effusion .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Monitor for signs or symptoms .
Discontinue infusion if reaction occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Risk of Infections , Fat Overload Syndrome , Refeeding Syndrome , and Hypertriglyceridemia : Monitor for signs and symptoms ; monitor laboratory parameters .
( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) • Aluminum Toxicity : Increased risk in patients with renal impairment , including preterm infants .
( 5 . 7 ) • Monitoring and Laboratory Tests : Routine laboratory monitoring is recommended , including monitoring for essential fatty acid deficiency .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Death in Preterm Infants due to Pulmonary Lipid Accumulation Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of soybean oil - based intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported in medical literature .
Autopsy findings in these preterm infants included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs .
The risk of pulmonary lipid accumulation with Omegaven is unknown .
Preterm and small - for - gestational - age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
This risk due to poor lipid clearance should be considered when administering intravenous lipid emulsions .
Monitor patients receiving Omegaven for signs and symptoms of pleural or pericardial effusion .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Omegaven contains fish oil and egg phospholipids , which may cause hypersensitivity reactions .
Signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction may include : tachypnea , dyspnea , hypoxia , bronchospasm , tachycardia , hypotension , cyanosis , vomiting , nausea , headache , sweating , dizziness , altered mentation , flushing , rash , urticaria , erythema , fever , or chills .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , stop infusion of Omegaven immediately and initiate appropriate treatment and supportive measures [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Risk of Infections Lipid emulsions , such as Omegaven , can support microbial growth and are an independent risk factor for the development of bloodstream infections .
The risk of infection is increased in patients with malnutrition - associated immunosuppression , long - term use and poor maintenance of intravenous catheters , or immunosuppressive effects of other conditions or concomitant drugs .
To decrease the risk of infectious complications , ensure aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance , as well as in the preparation and administration of Omegaven .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of early infections including fever and chills , laboratory test results that might indicate infection ( including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia ) , and frequently inspect the intravenous catheter insertion site for edema , redness , and discharge .
5 . 4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid emulsions .
A reduced or limited ability to metabolize lipids accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in this syndrome , which is characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient ' s condition including fever , anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorders , hyperlipidemia , hepatomegaly , deteriorating liver function , and central nervous system manifestations ( e . g . , coma ) .
The cause of fat overload syndrome is unclear .
Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dose was exceeded , cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions .
The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped .
5 . 5 Refeeding Syndrome Administering PN to severely malnourished patients may result in refeeding syndrome , which is characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
To prevent these complications , closely monitor severely malnourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intake .
5 . 6 Hypertriglyceridemia Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders , obesity , diabetes mellitus , and metabolic syndrome .
Serum triglyceride levels greater than 1 , 000 mg / dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
To evaluate the patient ' s capacity to metabolize and eliminate the infused lipid emulsion , measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion ( baseline value ) , and regularly throughout treatment .
If hypertriglyceridemia ( triglycerides greater than 250 mg / dL in neonates and infants or greater than 400 mg / dL in older children ) develops , consider stopping the administration of Omegaven for 4 hours and obtain a repeat serum triglyceride level .
Resume Omegaven based on new result as indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Aluminum Toxicity Omegaven contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Preterm infants are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
5 . 8 Monitoring and Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Monitor serum triglycerides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] , fluid and electrolyte status , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , coagulation parameters , and complete blood count including platelets throughout treatment .
Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for laboratory evidence of essential fatty acid deficiency ( EFAD ) is recommended .
Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels .
Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status .
Increasing essential fatty acid intake ( enterally or parenterally ) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD .
5 . 9 Interference with Laboratory Tests The lipids contained in Omegaven may interfere with some laboratory blood tests ( e . g . , hemoglobin , lactate dehydrogenase , bilirubin , and oxygen saturation ) if blood is sampled before lipids have cleared from the bloodstream .
Lipids are normally cleared after a period of 5 to 6 hours once the lipid infusion is stopped .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Risk of death in preterm infants due to pulmonary lipid accumulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Risk of infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fat overload syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypertriglyceridemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Most common adverse drug reactions ( > 15 % ) are : vomiting , agitation , bradycardia , apnea and viral infection .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety database for Omegaven reflects exposure in 189 pediatric patients ( 19 days to 15 years of age ) treated for a median of 14 weeks ( 3 days to 8 years ) in two clinical trials .
Omegaven was administered at a maximum dose of 1 g / kg / day as the lipid component of a PN regimen which also included dextrose , amino acids , vitamins , and trace elements ; 158 ( 84 % ) of these patients received concurrent lipids from enteral nutrition [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse reactions that occurred in more than 5 % of patients who received Omegaven and with a higher incidence than the comparator group are shown in Table 1 .
Patients had a complicated medical and surgical history prior to receiving Omegaven treatment and the mortality was 13 % .
Underlying clinical conditions prior to the initiation of Omegaven therapy included prematurity , low birth weight , necrotizing enterocolitis , short bowel syndrome , ventilator dependence , coagulopathy , intraventricular hemorrhage , and sepsis .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions in Greater Than 5 % of Omegaven - Treated Pediatric Patients with PNAC Adverse Reaction Omegaven ( N = 189 ) n ( % ) Vomiting 87 ( 46 ) Agitation 67 ( 35 ) Bradycardia 66 ( 35 ) Apnea 38 ( 20 ) Viral Infection 30 ( 16 ) Erythema 23 ( 12 ) Rash 15 ( 8 ) Abscess 14 ( 7 ) Neutropenia 13 ( 7 ) Hypertonia 11 ( 6 ) Incision site erythema 11 ( 6 ) Twelve ( 6 % ) Omegaven - treated patients were listed for liver transplantation ( 1 patient was listed 18 days before treatment , and 11 patients after a median of 42 days [ range : 2 days to 8 months ] of treatment ) ; 9 ( 5 % ) received a transplant after a median of 121 days ( range : 25 days to 6 months ) of treatment , and 3 ( 2 % ) were taken off the waiting list because cholestasis resolved .
One hundred thirteen ( 60 % ) Omegaven - treated patients reached DBil levels less than 2 mg / dL and AST or ALT levels less than 3 times the upper limit of normal , with median AST and ALT levels for Omegaven - treated patients at 89 and 65 U / L , respectively , by the end of the study .
Median hemoglobin levels and platelet counts for Omegaven - treated patients at baseline were 10 . 2 g / dL and 173 × 109 / L , and by the end of the study these levels were 10 . 5 g / dL and 217 × 109 / L , respectively .
Adverse reactions associated with bleeding were experienced by 74 ( 39 % ) of Omegaven - treated patients .
Median glucose levels at baseline and the end of the study were 86 and 87 mg / dL for Omegaven - treated patients , respectively .
Hyperglycemia was experienced by 13 ( 7 % ) Omegaven - treated patients .
Median triglyceride levels at baseline and the end of the study were 121 mg / dL and 72 mg / dL for Omegaven - treated patients respectively .
Hypertriglyceridemia was experienced by 5 ( 3 % ) Omegaven - treated patients .
The triene : tetraene ( Mead acid : arachidonic acid ) ratio was used to monitor essential fatty acid status in Omegaven - treated patients only in Study 1 ( n = 123 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
The median triene : tetraene ratio was 0 . 02 ( interquartile range : 0 . 01 to 0 . 03 ) at both baseline and the end of the study .
Blood samples for analysis may have been drawn while the lipid emulsion was being infused and patients received enteral or oral nutrition .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reaction has been identified with use of Omegaven in another country .
Because this reaction was reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate its frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Life - threatening hemorrhage following a central venous catheter change was reported in a 9 - month - old infant with intestinal failure who received PN with Omegaven as the sole lipid source ; he had no prior history of bleeding , coagulopathy , or portal hypertension .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiplatelet Agents and Anticoagulants : Prolonged bleeding time has been reported in patients taking antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants and oral omega - 3 fatty acids .
Periodically monitor bleeding time in patients receiving Omegaven and concomitant antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Antiplatelet Agents and Anticoagulants Some published studies have demonstrated prolongation of bleeding time in patients taking antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants and oral omega - 3 fatty acids .
The prolongation of bleeding times reported in those studies did not exceed normal limits and there were no clinically significant bleeding episodes .
Nonetheless , it is recommended to periodically monitor bleeding time in patients receiving Omegaven and concomitant antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on Omegaven use in pregnant women to establish a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with fish oil triglycerides .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary No data are available regarding the presence of fish oil triglycerides from Omegaven in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Lactating women receiving oral omega - 3 fatty acids have been shown to have higher levels of omega - 3 fatty acids in their milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Omegaven , and any potential adverse effects of Omegaven on the breastfed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The effectiveness of Omegaven was established in two open - label clinical trials of 82 pediatric patients , 3 to 42 weeks of age , including preterm neonates with estimated gestational age of greater than 24 weeks at birth .
Patients administered Omegaven attained and maintained growth through at least 108 weeks of treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety of Omegaven was established in 189 pediatric patients ( 19 days to 15 years of age ) .
The most common adverse reactions in Omegaven - treated patients were vomiting , agitation , and bradycardia [ ( see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous soybean oil - based lipid emulsion have been reported in literature [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Preterm neonates and infants who receive treatment with Omegaven may be at risk of aluminum toxicity and other metabolic abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Omegaven did not include patients 65 years of age and older .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose , fat overload syndrome may occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Stop the infusion of Omegaven until triglyceride levels have normalized and any symptoms have abated .
The effects are usually reversible by stopping the lipid infusion .
If medically appropriate , further intervention may be indicated .
Lipids are not dialyzable from serum .
11 DESCRIPTION Omegaven ( fish oil triglycerides ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , white , homogenous emulsion for intravenous infusion as a supply of calories in patients with PNAC .
Each mL of Omegaven contains 0 . 1 g of fish oil , 0 . 012 g egg phospholipids , 0 . 025 g glycerin , 0 . 15 to 0 . 3 mg dl - alpha - tocopherol , 0 . 3 mg sodium oleate , water for injection , and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment ( pH 6 to 9 ) .
The phosphate content is 0 . 015 mmol / mL .
The fish oil included in Omegaven is a triglyceride mixture consisting of esters of long - chain saturated fatty acids and unsaturated fatty acids with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] where [ MULTIMEDIA ] , [ MULTIMEDIA ] , and [ MULTIMEDIA ] are long chain acyl groups .
Because triglycerides often contain different long chain fatty acids at each position , possible structures can have molecular weights ranging from 700 to 1000 g / mol .
The main fatty acid components of the fish oil in Omegaven are EPA ( 13 % to 26 % ) and DHA ( 14 % to 27 % ) .
The fish oil also contains palmitic acid ( 4 % to 12 % ) , oleic acid ( 4 % to 11 % ) , palmitoleic acid ( 4 % to 10 % ) , myristic acid ( 2 % to 7 % ) , and arachidonic acid ( 0 . 2 % to 2 . 0 % ) .
Additionally , the mean contents of linoleic acid and alpha - linolenic acid are 1 . 5 % and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
The fish oil component has a total omega - 3 fatty acid content of 40 % to 54 % .
The empirical formula , molecular weight , and chemical structure of the main fatty acid components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Omegaven 5 g / 50 mL contains 5 grams of fish oil and 0 . 6 g egg phospholipids , 1 . 25 g glycerin , 7 . 5 to 15 mg dl - alpha - tocopherol , 0 . 015 g sodium oleate , water for injection , and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment ( pH 6 to 9 ) packaged in a single - dose 50 - mL glass bottle enclosed with a rubber stopper .
The phosphate content of the drug product is 0 . 75 mmol .
The mean content of the two major fatty acid components in 50 mL are 1 . 0 g EPA ( range : 0 . 6 to 1 . 5 g ) and 0 . 96 g DHA ( range : 0 . 7 to 1 . 7 g ) .
Additionally , the mean content of linoleic acid , alpha - linolenic acid , and arachidonic acid per 50 mL are 0 . 16 g , 0 . 07 g , and 0 . 13 g , respectively .
Omegaven 10 g / 100 mL contains 10 grams of fish oil and 1 . 2 g egg phospholipids , 2 . 5 g glycerin , 15 to 30 mg dl - alpha - tocopherol , 0 . 03 g sodium oleate , water for injection , and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment ( pH 6 to 9 ) packaged in a single - dose 100 - mL glass bottle enclosed with rubber stopper .
The phosphate content of the drug product is 1 . 5 mmol .
The mean content of the two major fatty acid components in 100 mL are 2 . 0 g EPA ( range : 1 . 2 to 3 . 0 g ) and 1 . 9 g DHA ( range : 1 . 3 to 3 . 3 g ) .
Additionally , the mean content of linoleic acid , alpha - linolenic acid , and arachidonic acid per 100 mL are 0 . 31 g , 0 . 13 g , and 0 . 25 g ; respectively .
The total energy content of Omegaven is 112 kcal / 100 mL ( 1 . 12 kcal / mL ) , including lipids , phospholipids , and glycerol .
Omegaven has an osmolality of approximately 342 mOsm / kg water ( which represents an osmolarity of 273 mOsm / L ) .
Omegaven contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Omegaven provides a biologically utilizable source of calories and essential fatty acids .
Fatty acids serve as an important substrate for energy production .
The most common mechanism of action for energy production derived from fatty acid metabolism is beta oxidation .
Fatty acids are also important for membrane structure and function , as precursors for bioactive molecules ( such as prostaglandins ) , and as regulators of gene expression .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The plasma concentrations of EPA and DHA , the major fatty acids in Omegaven , as well as linoleic acid and alpha - linolenic acid ( essential fatty acids ) were measured along with the markers of essential fatty acid status in 58 pediatric patients with PNAC after an intravenous infusion of 1 mg / kg / day of Omegaven over 10 weeks .
Five patients received Omegaven as the exclusive lipid source , and all others received concurrent enteral or oral nutrition .
Figure 1 Mean Plasma Concentrations of Fatty Acids Over 10 Weeks of Omegaven Infusion in Pediatric Patients with PNAC [ MULTIMEDIA ] Error bars represent ± 1 standard deviation ( SD ) .
Numbers at the top of plots represent the number of patients at each time point If more than one value was available for a patient at any given time point , the average was used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been performed with fish oil triglycerides to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or its effect on fertility .
Fish oil triglycerides was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity test with Salmonella typhimurium and the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase ( HPRT ) gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster V79 cells .
Fish oil triglycerides was not clastogenic in cultured human peripheral lymphocytes or in a rat bone marrow cytogenetic study .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of Omegaven was evaluated in two open - label single - center clinical trials ( Study 1 , NCT00910104 , and Study 2 , NCT00738101 ) in pediatric patients with PNAC ( defined as direct or conjugated bilirubin [ DBil ] equal to or greater than 2 mg / dL ) who required PN for at least 14 days .
Although Study 1 and Study 2 were not adequately designed to demonstrate noninferiority or superiority of Omegaven to the soybean oil - based lipid emulsion comparator , the data from these studies support Omegaven as a source of calories in pediatric patients with PNAC .
Nutritional efficacy was assessed by biomarkers of lipid metabolism , growth indices ( body weight , length / height and head circumference ) , and / or mean changes in fatty acid parameters .
Both trials prospectively enrolled Omegaven - treated patients ( maximum dose of 1 g / kg / day ) and used historical control patients who received a soybean oil - based lipid emulsion ( maximum dose of 3 g / kg / day ) as a comparator .
Patients were expected to require PN , which also included dextrose , amino acids , vitamins and trace elements , for at least 30 days ( Study 1 ) or 14 days ( Study 2 ) , had PNAC , and had received standard therapies to prevent progression of liver disease .
Study 1 enrolled patients less than 2 years of age and Study 2 enrolled patients less than 5 years of age .
Patients with another cause of chronic liver disease ( in the absence of intestinal failure ) were excluded .
Patients with an international normalized ratio ( INR ) greater than 2 and patients with portal vein thrombosis or reversal of portal flow by abdominal ultrasound were also excluded .
For the efficacy analyses of Studies 1 and 2 , Omegaven - treated patients were pair - matched in a 2 : 1 manner to historical control patients primarily based on DBil levels and postmenstrual age at baseline .
There were 123 patients ( 82 Omegaven ; 41 historical control ) in this population , 78 ( 52 ; 26 ) were from Study 1 , and 45 ( 30 ; 15 ) were from Study 2 .
A summary of concurrent enteral / oral nutrition intake for each study is provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 Summary of Median Enteral or Oral Intakes in Pediatric Patients with PNAC in Study 1 and Study 2 a . Two Omegaven - treated patients in Study 1 did not have data regarding enteral or oral intakes .
Parameter Study 1 Study 2 Omegaven ( n = 50 ) a Historical Control ( n = 26 ) Omegaven ( n = 30 ) Historical Control ( n = 15 ) Number of patients who received concurrent enteral or oral nutrition 44 ( 88 % ) 26 ( 100 % ) 24 ( 80 % ) 14 ( 93 % ) Percentage of total calories provided enterally or orally , median ( Min - Max ) 24 % ( 1 % – 53 % ) 25 % ( 0 . 4 % – 68 % ) 21 % ( 1 % – 75 % ) 12 % ( 3 % – 40 % ) In the combined efficacy analysis population from Study 1 and Study 2 , median chronological age was 9 weeks ( range : 3 to 42 weeks ) in the Omegaven group and 7 weeks ( range : 0 to 41 weeks ) in the historical control group .
The majority of these patients were preterm infants at birth ( 90 % Omegaven ; 83 % historical control ) , with gestational age categories as follows : extremely preterm ( 31 % ; 20 % ) ; very preterm ( 20 % ; 24 % ) ; moderate or late preterm ( 40 % ; 39 % ) .
A majority of patients were also considered to have low , very - low , or extremely - low birth weights ( 76 % ; 82 % ) , with birth weight categories as follows : extremely - low birth weight ( 34 % ; 24 % ) ; very - low birth weight ( 17 % ; 21 % ) ; low birth weight ( 25 % ; 37 % ) .
The efficacy analysis population had more males ( 51 % ; 59 % ) than females , and the majority of patients were White ( 60 % ; 66 % ) .
At baseline , the median age - adjusted body weight ( Z - score ) was - 1 . 3 for the Omegaven group and - 1 . 1 for the historical control group ; 27 % and 28 % were low - for - age in body weight , 43 % and 40 % were low - for - age in body height / length , and 25 % and 15 % were low - for - age in head circumference for the Omegaven and historical control groups , respectively ( low - for - age corresponded to Z - scores less than or equal to - 1 . 9 for each growth parameter ) .
In the efficacy analysis population , baseline median DBil , AST , and ALT levels were 3 . 8 mg / dL , 101 U / L , and 67 U / L , respectively , for the Omegaven group ; and 3 . 8 mg / dL , 115 U / L , and 52 U / L , respectively , for the historical control group .
The median ( range ) of the duration of treatment was 2 . 7 months ( 5 days to 8 years ) for the Omegaven group and 3 . 6 months ( 16 days to 2 years ) for the historical control group .
The changes in median age - adjusted body weight ( Z - scores ) over time for Omegaven - treated patients ( Figure 2 ) appeared similar to those for historical control patients .
In both the Omegaven and historical control groups , there was an initial decline in all growth parameters ( weight , height / length , head circumference ) over the initial weeks of treatment , followed by catch - up growth and more age - appropriate values through the remainder of the study .
By comparing the Omegaven study data to age - standardized Fenton and World Health Organization ( WHO ) growth charts to assess age appropriate growth in patients with PNAC , patients treated with Omegaven as their exclusive lipid source also achieved age - appropriate growth .
Figure 2 Median Age - Adjusted Body Weight ( Z - scores ) Over Time in Omegaven - Treated Pediatric Patients with PNAC in Study 1 and Study 2 * [ MULTIMEDIA ] BL = baseline Error bars represent interquartile ranges .
* Data from pair - matched Omegaven patients were truncated at week 132 .
Median values are only shown for visits with data from at least 2 patients at a particular visit .
In the combined analysis from Study 1 and Study 2 , the number of Omegaven and historical control patients who achieved full enteral feeding by the end of the study was 52 ( 63 % ) patients and 24 ( 59 % ) patients , respectively .
The median time to full enteral feeding was approximately 15 weeks for both groups .
At the end of the studies , the median DBil level for Omegaven - treated patients was 0 . 60 mg / dL ( interquartile range : 0 . 1 to 2 . 8 mg / dL ) .
The Kaplan - Meier estimate of the median time for DBil values to return to less than 2 . 0 mg / dL was approximately 5 . 7 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Omegaven ( fish oil triglycerides ) injectable emulsion , 5 g / 50 mL and 10 g / 100 mL ( 0 . 1 g / mL ) is a white , homogenous , sterile emulsion supplied as follows : 50 mL single - dose glass bottle NDC 63323 - 205 - 21 Carton of 10 x 50 mL NDC 63323 - 205 - 50 100 mL single - dose glass bottle NDC 63323 - 205 - 31 Carton of 10 x 100 mL NDC 63323 - 205 - 00 The stopper used as the bottle closure is not made with natural rubber latex , PVC , or DEHP .
Storage and Handling Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not freeze .
If accidentally frozen , discard product .
Once the bottle is connected to the infusion set , use Omegaven immediately .
Complete infusion within 12 hours when using a Y - connector [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Infuse admixtures containing Omegaven immediately .
If not used immediately , admixtures can be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature or up to 24 hours under refrigeration .
Complete the infusion within 24 hours after removal from storage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients , their families , or caregivers of the following risks of Omegaven : • Risk of death in preterm infants due to pulmonary lipid accumulation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Risk of infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fat overload syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Refeeding syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypertriglyceridemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Fresenius Kabi and Omegaven are registered trademarks of Fresenius Kabi .
Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Graz , Austria www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451555 A [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Omegaven 50 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 205 - 21 255050 Omegaven ® ( fish oil triglycerides ) Injectable emulsion 5 grams per 50 mL ( 0 . 1 grams per mL ) Energy : 56 kcal per 50 mL For intravenous use only .
Rx only 50 mL Single - Dose bottle - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Omegaven 50 mL Vial Carton Label NDC 63323 - 205 - 50 255050 Omegaven ® ( fish oil triglycerides ) Injectable emulsion 5 grams per 50 mL ( 0 . 1 grams per mL ) For intravenous use only .
Rx only Sterile .
Store below 25 ° C . ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Use only if the emulsion is homogeneous .
See prescribing information .
Not made with natural rubber latex 10 x 50 mL Single - Dose bottle - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Omegaven 100 mL Vial Label NDC 63323 - 205 - 31 255100 Omegaven ® ( fish oil triglycerides ) Injectable emulsion 10 grams per 100 mL ( 0 . 1 grams per mL ) Energy : 112 kcal per 100 mL For intravenous use only .
Rx only 100 mL Single - Dose bottle - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Omegaven 100 mL Vial Carton Label NDC 63323 - 205 - 00 255100 Omegaven ® ( fish oil triglycerides ) Injectable emulsion 10 grams per 100 mL ( 0 . 1 grams per mL ) For intravenous use only .
Rx only Sterile .
Store below 25 ° C . ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Use only if the emulsion is homogeneous .
See prescribing information .
Not made with natural rubber latex 10 x 100 mL Single - Dose bottle - Discard Unused Portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
