Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( in each banded capsule ) Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride 25 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing ; itchy • watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold : • runny nose • sneezing Warnings Do not use • to make child sleepy • with any other products containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • trouble urinating due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur , especially in children If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 to 2 capsules children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 capsule children under 6 years of age do not use this product in children under 6 years of age Other Information • store at room temperature , USP D & C red # 28 , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 , gelatin , lactose and starch Questions or Comments ?
( 800 ) 231 - 4670 Distributed By Cardinal Health Dublin , Ohio 43017 www . myleader . com Essential to Care ™ since 1979 + This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . owner of the registered trademark Benadryl ® © 2016 Cardinal Health .
All rights Reserved .
Cardinal Health , the Cardinal Health Logo , Leadear and the Leader Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cardinal Health .
All other marks are property of their respective owners .
NDC 70000 - 0207 - 1 Allergy Capsules Diphenhydramine HCL , 25 mg Antihistamine For Allergy Relief Runny Nose , Itchy Throat , Sneezing and Itchy , Watery Eyes 24 Capsules Compare to Benadryl ® active ingredient + [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
