DESCRIPTION Oxazepam is the first of a chemical series of compounds known as the 3 - hydroxybenzodiazepinones .
A therapeutic agent providing versatility and flexibility in control of common emotional disturbances , this product exerts prompt action in a wide variety of disorders associated with anxiety , tension , agitation , and irritability , and anxiety associated with depression .
In tolerance and toxicity studies on several animal species , this product reveals significantly greater safety factors than related compounds ( chlordiazepoxide and diazepam ) and manifests a wide separation of effective doses and doses inducing side effects .
Oxazepam capsules contain 10 mg , 15 mg or 30 mg oxazepam .
The following inactive ingredients are contained in these capsules : corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , FDANDC Red # 40 , gelatin , hypromellose , lactose ( monohydrate ) , magnesium stearate , methylparaben , propylparaben , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and other inert ingredients .
The 10 mg capsule also contains DANDC Red # 28 .
The 15 mg capsule also contains DANDC Yellow # 10 .
The 30 mg capsule also contains DANDC Red # 28 and FDANDC Blue # 1 .
Oxazepam is 7 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - phenyl - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
A white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 286 . 72 , its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYPharmacokinetic testing in healthy adult subjects has demonstrated that a single 30 mg dose of a capsule or tablet will result in equivalent extent of absorption .
Peak plasma levels were observed to occur about 3 hours after dosing .
The mean elimination half - life for oxazepam was approximately 8 . 2 hours ( range 5 . 7 to 10 . 9 hours ) .
This product has a single , major inactive metabolite in man , a glucuronide excreted in the urine .
Age ( less than 80 years old ) does not appear to have a clinically significant effect on oxazepam kinetics .
A statistically significant increase in elimination half - life in the very elderly ( greater than 80 years of age ) as compared to younger subjects has been reported , due to a 30 % increase in volume of distribution , as well as a 50 % reduction in unbound clearance of oxazepam in the very elderly .
( see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGEOxazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
Anxiety associated with depression is also responsive to Oxazepam therapy .
This product has been found particularly useful in the management of anxiety , tension , agitation , and irritability in older patients .
Alcoholics with acute tremulousness , inebriation , or with anxiety , associated with alcohol withdrawal are responsive to therapy .
The effectiveness of Oxazepam in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONSHistory of previous hypersensitivity reaction to oxazepam .
Oxazepam is not indicated in psychoses WARNINGSAs with other CNS - acting drugs , patients should be cautioned against driving automobiles or operating dangerous machinery until it is known that they do not become drowsy or dizzy on oxazepam therapy .
Patients should be warned that the effects of alcohol or other CNS - depressant drugs may be additive to those of Oxazepam , possibly requiring adjustment of dosage or elimination of such agents .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section ) .
Use in Pregnancy : An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Oxazepam , a benzodiazepine derivative , has not been studied adequately to determine whether it , too , may be associated with an increased risk of fetal abnormality .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralAlthough hypotension has occurred only rarely , oxazepam should be administered with caution to patients in whom a drop in blood pressure might lead to cardiac complications .
This is particularly true in the elderly patient .
Information for PatientsTo assure the safe and effective use of oxazepam , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 6 years of age have not been established .
Absolute dosage for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age is not established .
Geriatric UseClinical studies of oxazepam were not adequate to determine whether subjects aged 65 and over respond differently than younger subjects .
Age ( less than 80 years old ) does not appear to have a clinically significant effect on oxazepam kinetics ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Clinical circumstances , some of which may be more common in the elderly , such as hepatic or renal impairment , should be considered .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals to the effects of oxazepam ( e . g . , sedation , hypotension , paradoxical excitation ) cannot be ruled out ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ; see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In general , dose selection for oxazepam for elderly patients should be cautious , usually starting at the lower end of the dosing range ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONSThe necessity for discontinuation of therapy due to undesirable effects has been rare .
Transient , mild drowsiness is commonly seen in the first few days of therapy .
If it persists , the dosage should be reduced .
In few instances , dizziness , vertigo , headache , and rarely syncope have occurred either alone or together with drowsiness .
Mild paradoxical reactions , i . e . , excitement , stimulation of affect , have been reported in psychiatric patients ; these reactions may be secondary to relief of anxiety and usually appear in the first two weeks of therapy .
Other side effects occurring during oxazepam therapy include rare instances of nausea , lethargy , edema , slurred speech , tremor , altered libido , and minor diffuse skin rashes — morbilliform , urticarial , and maculopapular .
Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage .
A case of an extensive fixed drug eruption also has been reported .
Although rare , leukopenia and hepatic dysfunction including jaundice have been reported during therapy .
Periodic blood counts and liver - function tests are advisable .
Ataxia with oxazepam has been reported in rare instances and does not appear to be specifically related to dose or age .
Although the following side reactions have not as yet been reported with oxazepam , they have occurred with related compounds ( chlordiazepoxide and diazepam ) : paradoxical excitation with severe rage reactions , hallucinations , menstrual irregularities , change in EEG pattern , blood dyscrasias including agranulocytosis , blurred vision , diplopia , incontinence , stupor , disorientation , fever , and euphoria .
Transient amnesia or memory impairment has been reported in association with the use of benzodiazepines DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCEOxazepam Capsules are classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a schedule IV controlled substance .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of oxazepam .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage - tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving oxazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
OVERDOSAGEIn the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
Symptoms : Overdosage of benzodiazepines is usually manifested by varying degrees of central nervous system depression ranging from drowsiness to coma .
In mild cases , symptoms include drowsiness , mental confusion and lethargy .
In more serious cases , and especially when other drugs or alcohol were ingested , symptoms may include ataxia , hypotonia , hypotension , hypnotic state , stage one ( 1 ) to three ( 3 ) coma , and very rarely , death .
Management : Induced vomiting and / or gastric lavage should be undertaken , followed by general supportive care , monitoring of vital signs , and close observation of the patient .
Hypotension , though unlikely , usually may be controlled with norepinephrine bitartrate injection .
The value of dialysis has not been adequately determined for oxazepam .
The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil may be used in hospitalized patients as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONBecause of the flexibility of this product and the range of emotional disturbances responsive to it , dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effects .
USUAL DOSE Mild - to - moderate anxiety , with associated tension , irritability , agitation , or related symptoms of functional origin or secondary to organic disease .
10 to 15 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Severe anxiety syndromes , agitation , or anxiety associated with depression .
15 to 30 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Older patients with anxiety , tension , irritability , and agitation .
Initial dosage : 10 mg , 3 times daily .
If necessary , increase cautiously to 15 mg , 3 or 4 times daily .
Alcoholics with acute inebriation , tremulousness , or anxiety on withdrawal .
15 to 30 mg , 3 or 4 times daily This product is not indicated in pediatric patients under 6 years of age .
Absolute dosage for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age is not established .
HOW SUPPLIED Oxazepam capsules are available as follows : 10 mg — Each pink opaque gelatin # 4 capsule printed with Image from Drug Label Content and 067 in black ink on both cap and body contains 10 mg of Oxazepam , USP .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2067 - 10 ) AND 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2067 - 50 ) .
15 mg — Each red opaque gelatin # 4 capsule printed with Image from Drug Label Content and 069 in black ink on both cap and body contains 15 mg of Oxazepam , USP .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2069 - 10 ) and 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2069 - 50 ) .
30 mg — Each maroon opaque gelatin # 4 capsule printed with Image from Drug Label Content and 073 in blue ink on both cap and body contains 30 mg of Oxazepam , USP .
Capsules are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2073 - 10 ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Rx only ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND / OR ANIMAL TOXICOLOGYIn mice , oxazepam exerts an anticonvulsant ( anti - Metrazol ® ) activity at 50 - percent - effective doses of about 0 . 6 mg / kg orally .
( Such anticonvulsant activity of benzodiazepines correlates with their tranquilizing properties . )
To produce ataxia ( rotabar test ) and sedation ( abolition of spontaneous motor activity ) , the 50 - percent - effective doses of this product are greater than 5 mg / kg orally .
Thus , about ten times the therapeutic ( anticonvulsant ) dose must be given before ataxia ensues , indicating a wide separation of effective doses and doses inducing side effects .
In evaluation of antianxiety of compounds , conflict behavioral tests in rats differentiate continuous response for food in the presence of anxiety - provoking stress ( shock ) from drug - induced motor incoordination .
This product shows significant separation of doses required to relieve anxiety and doses producing sedation or ataxia .
Ataxia - producing doses exceed those of related CNS - acting drugs .
Acute oral LD50 in mice is greater than 5000 mg / kg , compared to 800 mg / kg for a related compound ( chlordiazepoxide ) .
Subacute toxicity studies in dogs for four weeks at 480 mg / kg daily showed no specific changes ; at 960 mg / kg two out of eight died with evidence of circulatory collapse .
This wide margin of safety is significant compared to chlordiazepoxide HCI , which showed nonspecific changes in six dogs at 80 mg / kg .
On chlordiazepoxide , two out of six died with evidence of circulatory collapse at 127 mg / kg , and six out of six died at 200 mg / kg daily .
Chronic toxicity studies of oxazepam in dogs at 120 mg / kg / day for 52 weeks produced no toxic manifestation .
Fatty metamorphosis of the liver has been noted in six - week toxicity studies in rats given this product at 0 . 5 % of the diet .
Such accumulations of fat are considered reversible , as there is no liver necrosis or fibrosis .
Breeding studies in rats through two successive litters did not produce fetal abnormality .
Oxazepam has not been adequately evaluated for mutagenic activity .
In a carcinogenicity study , oxazepam was administered with diet to rats for two years .
Male rats receiving 30 times the maximum human dose showed a statistical increase , when compared to controls , in benign thyroid follicular cell tumors , testicular interstitial cell adenomas , and prostatic adenomas .
An earlier published study reported that mice fed dietary dosages of 35 or 100 times the human daily dose of oxazepam for 9 months developed a dose - related increase in liver adenomas . 1 In an independent analysis of some of the microscopic slides from this mouse study , several of these tumors were classified as liver carcinomas .
At this time , there is no evidence that clinical use of oxazepam is associated with tumors REFERENCES1 .
FOX , K . A , LAHCEN , R . B . : Liver - cell Adenomas and Peliosis Hepatis in Mice Associated with Oxazepam .
Res .
Commun .
Chem .
Pathol .
Pharmacol .
8 : 481 - 488 , 1974 .
Manufactured by : Actavis Elizabeth LLC 200 Elmora Avenue , Elizabeth , NJ 07207 USA 40 - 9021 Revised — March 2006 OXAZAPAM LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
