Lidothol ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % / Menthol 5 % Patch ) For Topical Use Only Do not use : • On the face or rashes • On wounds , damaged , or infected skin • In the eyes , mouth or other mucous membranes • On genitals • With a heating pad Ask a doctor before use if : • You are allergic to topical products or any ingredients in this product • You are pregnant or breast feeding • You are under age 18 When using this product : • Wash hands after applying or removing patch • Avoid contact with eyes • If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and consult your physician if : • Rash , irritation , or itching develops • Condition worsens Keep out of reach of children Lidothol Patient Information .
Before you begin using this medication : read this entire patient information sheet .
If you have any questions , please consult your physician or pharmacist .
Inform your physician if your condition does not improve or if it worsens .
This information may not include all of the details needed to use Lidothol safely and effectively .
Discuss use with your doctor or pharmacist .
What is Lidothol ?
A topical pain relief patch consisting of the local anesthetic Lidocaine ( 4 . 5 % ) and the topical analgesic Menthol ( 5 % ) .
What is Lidothol used for ?
The patch assists patients in the management of mild to moderate acute pain or mild to moderate aches .
Lidothol is applied to the skin at the specific region experiencing these pain symptoms .
The synthesis of Lidocaine and Menthol is a highly effective combination of pain relievers working to alleviate discomfort while the root cause is being managed and treated by your healthcare providers .
DO NOT USE : • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product • On wounds or damaged skin • With a heating pad • If you are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or breastfeeding What are the possible side effects with Lidothol ?
• Common : itching or redness of the skin following application • NOTE : The majority of patients experience no significant adverse events following patch application .
Serious side effects , are , in general , related to accidental toxicity of medication by applying considerably more than directed by your doctor or pharmacist or by ingesting the contents of the patch .
• Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take .
This includes prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
• Avoid excessive alcohol usage , since it may increase the potential for Central Nervous System ( CNS ) effects such as dizziness , confusion , lightheadedness and orthostatic hypotension .
This is not a complete list of the possible side effects .
For more information , talk with your doctor or pharmacist .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Rx ONLY DIRECTIONS FOR USE Adults and children 12 years and over : Apply 1 to 2 patches to the affected area of intact skin .
Lidothol should be removed after 12 hours of continuous use and remain off for at least 12 hours .
• Determine area of patch application .
If the pain area is smaller than the patch , patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors .
Safely discard the remaining unused pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot reach .
• Remove the transparent protective film ( clear plastic barrier ) before application of patches to the skin .
Apply immediately after removing the protective film .
• Apply 1 patch to the affected area so that the patch covers all or most of the painful area .
• Remove patch if irritation occurs .
Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor WARNINGS • Do not use : • On wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin • On eyes , mouth , genitals , or other mucous membranes 2 .
Consult physician for children under 12 years of age 3 .
Stop and consult your prescriber if pain worsens Call your healthcare provider right away if you experience any of the following warning signs or any other unusual symptoms of concern : • Shortness of breath • Swelling or numbness of the tongue or throat • Severe headache or vomiting • Dizziness or faintness • Changes in vision or speech General information for safe and effective use of Lidothol Do not use this product for another indication .
Do not give this drug to anyone else , even if they have the same condition .
This product is intended for use as prescribed by a physician .
How should I store Lidothol ?
Store product at room temperature at 65 ˚ F to 75 ˚ F ( 18 ˚ C to 24 ˚ C ) .
Keep away from heat or sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Safely discard product after expiration date posted on the product label .
Discard patches away from small children or animals .
DO NOT use the product after the expiration date printed on the box .
This insert provides the most important information about Lidothol .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
There is additional information in the following sections intended for healthcare professionals .
What are the active ingredients in Lidothol ?
The patch consists of 4 . 5 % Lidocaine and 5 % Menthol .
What are the inactive Ingredients in Lidothol ?
Alcohol , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Glycerine , Kaolin , Partially Neutralized Polyacrylate , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , Polyvinyl Pyrrolidone , Tartaric Acid , Tetrasodium EDTA , Water DESCRIPTION : Lidothol is a prescription topical patch , packaged with 15 medicated patches : 5 re - sealable pouches containing 3 patches each .
Lidocaine is present in a 4 . 5 % concentration ( w / w ) .
It is chemically designated as 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) acetamide and has an empirical formula of C14H22N2O .
The molecular weight of Lidocaine is 234 . 34 g / mol .
Menthol is present in a 5 % concentration ( w / w ) .
The chemical name is ( 1 R , 2 S , 5 R ) - 2 - isopropyl - 5 - methylcyclohexanol .
The empirical formula for Menthol is C10H20O with a molecular weight of 156 . 27 g / mol .
Lidothol ( Lidocaine 4 . 5 % / Menthol 5 % Patch ) consists of an adhesive hydrogel containing Lidocaine 4 . 5 % and Menthol 5 % , applied to flexible woven polyester backing and protected by a plastic film .
The protective film is removed prior to application to the skin .
The size of the patch is 12 cm x 8 cm .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , has an octanol : water partition ration of 43 at pH 7 . 4 , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Menthol is chemically designated as 2 - Isopropyl - 5 - methylcyclohexanol .
It contains colorless , hexagonal crystals , usually needle - like ; fused masses or crystalline powder with a pleasant , peppermint - like odor .
It has a melting point between 31 ° C to 36 ° C . Menthol has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each adhesive patch contains 76 . 5 mg of Lidocaine and 85 mg of Menthol .
It also contains the following inactive ingredients : Alcohol , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Glycerine , Kaolin , Partially Neutralized Polyacrylate , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 80 , Polyvinyl Pyrrolidone , Tartaric Acid , Tetrasodium EDTA , Water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Lidocaine is a topical anesthetic and stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Menthol has local anesthetic and counterirritant qualities .
It also acts as a weak kappa ( ĸ ) opioid receptor agonist .
Menthol chemically triggers the cold - sensitive TRPM - 8 receptors in the skin , which are responsible for the well - documented cooling sensation that occurs when applied to the skin .
Menthol ’ s analgesic properties are not fully understood ; however , they are mediated through a selective activation of ĸ - opioid receptors .
Menthol also blocks voltage - sensitive sodium channels , reducing neural activity that may stimulate muscle tissue .
Pharmacodynamics Menthol works by targeting the k - opiod receptor on the TRPM8 neuron .
The TRPM8 neuron is normally activated at temperatures between ( 8 ° - 28 ° C ) .
Menthol causes the neuron to fire at temperatures above normal activation , which triggers the characteristic cooling sensation .
Also because of Menthol ' s specific targeting of the k - opioid receptor , it is endowed with analgesic properties .
Lidocaine is an amide - type local anesthetic agent and is suggested to stabilize neuronal membranes by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of impulses .
The penetration of Lidocaine into intact skin after application of patch is sufficient to produce an analgesic effect , but less than the amount necessary to produce a complete sensory block .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : The amount of Lidocaine and Menthol systemically absorbed is directly related to both the duration of application and the surface area over which it is applied .
In a pharmacokinetic study , three Lidocaine 5 % patches were applied over an area of 420 cm2 of intact skin on the back of normal volunteers for 12 hours .
Blood samples were withdrawn for a determination of Lidocaine concentration during the application and for 12 hours after removal of patches .
The results are summarized in table 1 .
Repeated application of three days indicated that the Lidocaine concentration does not increase with daily use .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic profile for the 15 healthy volunteers is shown in Figure 1 .
When Lidocaine 5 % patch is used according to the recommended dosing instructions , only 3 ± 2 % of the dose applied is expected to be absorbed .
At least 95 % ( 665 mg ) of Lidocaine will remain in a used patch .
Mean peak blood concentration of Lidocaine is about 0 . 13 µg / mL ( about 1 / 10 of the therapeutic concentration required to treat cardiac arrhythmias ) .
Figure 1 Mean Lidocaine blood concentrations after three consecutive daily applications of three Lidocaine 5 % patches simultaneously for 12 hours per day in healthy volunteers ( n = 15 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution : When Lidocaine is administered intravenously to healthy volunteers , the volume of distribution is 0 . 7 to 2 . 7 L / kg ( mean 1 . 5 ± 0 . 6 SD , n = 15 ) .
At concentrations produced by application of Lidocaine Patch 5 % , Lidocaine is approximately 70 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
At much higher plasma concentrations ( 1 to 4 µg / mL of free base ) , the plasma protein binding of Lidocaine is concentration dependent .
Lidocaine crosses the placental and blood brain barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Metabolism : It is not known if Lidocaine is metabolized in the skin .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver to a number of metabolites , including menoethylglycinexylidie ( MEGX ) and glycinexylidide ( GX ) , both of which have pharmacologic activity similar to , but less potent than that of Lidocaine .
A minor metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has unknown pharmacologic activity but is carcinogenic in rats .
The blood concentration of this metabolite is negligible following application of Lidocaine Patch 5 % .
Following intravenous administration , MEGX and GX concentrations in serum range from 11 % to 36 % and from 5 % to 11 % of Lidocaine concentrations , respectively .
Humans rapidly metabolize Menthols primarily in the liver by the microsomes , using the enzyme CYP2A6 .
Cytochrome P450 - mediated oxidation occurs in humans , yielding various alcohol and hydroxy acid derivatives .
These are eliminated in the urine unchanged or conjugated with glucuronic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Excretion : Lidocaine and its metabolites are excreted by the kidneys .
Less than 10 % of Lidocaine is excreted unchanged .
The half - life of Lidocaine elimination from plasma following IV administration is 81 to 149 minutes ( mean 107 ± 22 SD , n = 15 ) .
The systemic clearance is 0 . 33 to 0 . 90 L / min ( mean 0 . 64 ± 0 . 18 SD , n = 15 ) .
Menthols are largely eliminated as glucuronides .
In an experiment , 79 % of a 1 g ( Quick , 1928 ) and 78 % of a 10 - 20 mg ( Atzl et al . , 1972 ) oral dose of Menthol was eliminated as the glucuronic acid conjugate within 6 h after administration to volunteers .
Of a dose of 47 mg / kg bw [ 3 - 3 H ] - ( - ) - Menthol , 82 % was eliminated in the urine 17 hours after administration .
Smaller amounts were distributed in the feces and ileum ; only 1 % of the activity remained in the liver ( Clegg et al . , 1982 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Lidothol is a formulation used to assist patients in the treatment of mild to moderate acute or chronic aches or pain .
Muscle or joint pain can be due to muscle or ligament strains , simple backache , tendonitis , osteoarthritis , rheumatoid arthritis , peripheral neuropathies such as diabetic neuropathy or post herpetic neuralgia , and other complex regional pains .
It can also be used to help with certain types of headaches , but use with caution when applying in order to avoid eye contact .
Other uses may be considered if deemed clinically relevant .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Lidothol is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type , or to any other component of the product .
WARNINGS : Excessive dosage or short interval between doses can result in high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Patients should be instructed to strictly adhere to the recommended dosage and administration guidelines set forth in this literature and on your prescription label .
The management of serious adverse reactions may require the use of resuscitative equipment , oxygen or other resuscitative drugs .
Accidental Exposure in Children Even a used Lidothol patch contains a large amount of Lidocaine .
The potential exists for a small child or a pet to suffer serious adverse effects from chewing or ingesting a new or used Lidothol patch , although the risk with this formulation has not been evaluated .
It is important for patients to store and dispose of Lidothol beyond the reach of children , pets and others .
( See HANDLING AND DISPOSAL ) Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying Lidothol to larger areas for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of Lidocaine and high blood concentrations , leading to serious adverse effects .
Lidocaine toxicity could be expected at Lidocaine blood concentrations above 5 µg / mL .
The blood concentration of Lidocaine is determined by the rate of systemic absorption and elimination .
Longer duration of application , application of more than the recommended number of patches , smaller patients , or impaired elimination may all contribute to increasing the blood concentration of Lidocaine .
With recommended dosing of Lidothol , the average blood concentration is about 0 . 13 µg / mL , but concentration higher than 0 . 25 µg / mL have been observed in some patients .
PRECAUTIONS : Because of the possibility of sedation , patients should be cautioned regarding the use of heavy machinery or automobiles , also any activities made hazardous by decreased alertness .
Hepatic Disease Patients with severe hepatic disease are at greater risk of developing toxic blood concentrations of Lidocaine , because of their inability to metabolize Lidocaine normally .
Allergic Reactions Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to Lidocaine .
However , Lidothol should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities , especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain .
Non - intact Skin Application to broken or inflamed skin , although not tested , may result in higher blood concentrations of Lidocaine from increased absorption .
Lidothol is only recommended for use on intact skin .
Eye Exposure The contact of Lidothol with eyes , although not studied , should be avoided based on the findings of severe eye irritations with the use of similar products in animals .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and protect the eye until sensation returns .
External Heat Sources Placement of external heat sources , such as heating pads or electric blankets , over patches is not recommended as this has not been evaluated and may increase plasma Lidocaine levels .
Drug Interactions : Antiarrhythmic Drugs Lidothol should be used with caution in patients receiving Class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Local Anesthetics When Lidothol is used concurrently with other products containing local anesthetic agents the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis A minor metabolite , 2 , 6 - xylidine , has been found to be carcinogenic in rats .
The blood concentration of this metabolite is negligible following application of Lidothol Mutagenesis Lidocaine is not mutagenic in Salmonella / mammalian microsome test nor clastogenic in chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes and mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility The effect of Lidothol on fertility has not been studied .
PREGNANCY : The safety of Lidothol has not been established during pregnancy .
There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Lidothol should not be used during pregnancy unless absolutely needed .
Discuss with physician prior to using Lidothol during pregnancy .
NURSING MOTHERS : The effect of Lidothol on the nursing infant has not been evaluated .
Lidothol has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when Lidothol is administered to a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC / GERIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric and geriatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most common adverse reactions occur at the application site , including dermatitis , itching or scaling .
These tend to be dose - limiting and diminish with time .
Serious adverse experiences following the administration of Lidothol are similar in nature to those observed in other amide anesthetic - containing agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage , rapid absorption , or may result from hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy , or a diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
During or immediately after treatment with Lidothol , the skin at the site of application may develop redness , blisters , bruising , burning sensation , depigmentation , dermatitis , or mild irritation .
Allergic Reactions Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with Lidocaine , although rare , can occur .
They are characterized by angioedema , bronchospasm , dermatitis , dyspnea , hypersensitivity , laryngospasm , pruritus , shock , and urticaria .
If they occur , consult your doctor .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Lidothol and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents Class Nitrates / Nitrites Local Anesthetics Antineoplastic agents Antibiotics Antimalarials Anticonvulsants Other drugs Examples nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicyclic acid chloroquine , primaquine phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply Lidothol to intact skin to cover the most painful area .
Apply no more than four patches per day .
Each patch should not be applied for more than 12 hours in a given 24 - hour period .
Patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the protective film .
Clothing may be worn over the area of application .
Smaller areas of treatment are recommended in a debilitated patient , or a patient with impaired elimination .
If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application , remove the patch and do not reapply until the irritation subsides .
When Lidothol is used concurrently with other products containing local anesthetic agents , the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered .
Lidothol may not stick if it gets wet .
Avoid contact with water , such as bathing , swimming or showering .
OVERDOSAGE : There have been no reports of over - dosage with Lidothol .
Signs of overdosage would include vomiting , drowsiness , coma , respiratory depression , and seizures .
In the case of overdosage , discontinue the product immediately , treat the patient symptomatically , and institute supportive measures .
HOW SUPPLIED : Product : 50090 - 3470 NDC : 50090 - 3470 - 9 1 PATCH in a PATCH / 15 in a BOX HANDLING AND DISPOSAL : Wash hands immediately after applying or removing Lidothol .
Eye contact with Lidothol should be avoided .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
Fold used patches so the adhesive side sticks to itself , then safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot access them .
Lidothol should be kept out of reach of children .
STORAGE : Store at room temperature of 65 ˚ F to 75 ˚ F ( 18 ˚ C to 24 ˚ C ) .
Keep away from heat or sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
The product can be considered safe and effective to use when maintained under these recommended conditions within the posted expiration date .
LIDOCAINE , MENTHOL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
