[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient Purpose Camphor 7 . 0 % Topical Analgesic Menthol 7 . 0 % Topical Analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor pain associated with : • arthritis • muscle strains • sprains • bruises • joint pain Warnings For external use only When using this product • use only as directed • do not bandage tightly or use with a heating pad • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken or irritated skin • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more that 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children over 12 years : • clean and dry the affected area • remove backing from patch and apply patch to affected area • use 1 patch for 8 to 12 hours , once a day children 12 years or younger : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature below 86ºF ( 30ºC ) Inactive ingredients adhesive plaster , eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , gaultheria fragrantissima ( wintergreen ) oil , clove ( syzygum aromaticum ) flower oil Questions ?
Call 1 - 844 - 922 - 7672 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Lasts Up to 12 Hours !
NEW !
Absorbine jr . ® Plus TRUSTED SINCE 1892 Pain Relief KNEE PATCH 7 % Menthol , 7 % Camphor Relieves Knee Pain & Joint Stiffness • Starts to Work Instantly • Sweat Proof Technology to Stay in Place Securely • Lasts up to 12 Hours 6 Knee Medicated Patch 8 × 6 in ( 20 × 15 cm ) Absorbine Jr .
Knee Patch Formula has a unique blend of pain relievers specially developed to provide deep penetrating relief from aches and pains associated with chronic or activity - induced knee pain .
Customizable with upper & lower patch to fit any size knee • Not Messy or Greasy • Sweat Proof Technology to Stay in Place Securely • Soft , Flexible , and Will Not Stain • Wear Underneath Clothing without Detection Relieves Knee Pain & Joint Stiffness • Stays in Place During Activity • Discreet and Lightweight • Customizable with Upper & Lower Patch to Fit Any Size Knee • Lasts up to 12 Hours Distributed by : Absorbine jr .
LLC 27070 Miles Rd . , Suite A Solon , OH 44139 Made in India NC / DL - 378 - A & U PR13460USA © 2021 www . absorbinejr . com 1000037 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
