SPL UNCLASSIFIED 1 % 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) and 3 % 60 mg / 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY Rx only DESCRIPTION Sodium tetradecyl sulfate is an anionic surfactant which occurs as a white , waxy solid .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C14H29NaSO4 7 - Ethyl - 2 - methyl - 4 - hendecanol sulfate sodium salt MW 316 . 44 Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) is a sterile nonpyrogenic solution for intravenous use as a sclerosing agent .
1 % 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) : Each mL contains sodium tetradecyl sulfate 10 mg , benzyl alcohol 0 . 02 mL and dibasic sodium phosphate , anhydrous 4 . 0 mg in Water for Injection .
pH 7 . 9 ; monobasic sodium phosphate and / or sodium hydroxide added , if needed , for pH adjustment .
3 % 60 mg / 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) : Each mL contains sodium tetradecyl sulfate 30 mg , benzyl alcohol 0 . 02 mL and dibasic sodium phosphate , anhydrous 9 . 0 mg in Water for Injection .
pH 7 . 9 ; monobasic sodium phosphate and / or sodium hydroxide added , if needed , for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) is a sclerosing agent .
Intravenous injection causes intima inflammation and thrombus formation .
This usually occludes the injected vein .
Subsequent formation of fibrous tissue results in partial or complete vein obliteration that may or may not be permanent .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) is indicated in the treatment of small uncomplicated varicose veins of the lower extremities that show simple dilation with competent valves .
The benefit - to - risk ratio should be considered in selected patients who are great surgical risks .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) is contraindicated in previous hypersensitivity reactions to the drug ; in acute superficial thrombophlebitis ; valvular or deep vein incompetence ; huge superficial veins with wide open communications to deeper veins ; phlebitis migrans ; acute cellulitis ; allergic conditions ; acute infections ; varicosities caused by abdominal and pelvic tumors unless the tumor has been removed ; bedridden patients ; such uncontrolled systemic diseases as diabetes , toxic hyperthyroidism , tuberculosis , asthma , neoplasm , sepsis , blood dyscrasias and acute respiratory or skin diseases .
WARNINGS Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) should only be administered by a healthcare professional experienced in venous anatomy and the diagnosis and treatment of conditions affecting the venous system and familiar with proper injection technique .
Severe adverse local effects , including tissue necrosis , may occur following extravasation ; therefore , extreme care in intravenous needle placement and using the minimal effective volume at each injection site are important .
Emergency resuscitation equipment should be immediately available .
Allergic reactions , including fatal anaphylaxis , have been reported .
As a precaution against anaphylactic shock , it is recommended that 0 . 5 mL of Sotradecol be injected into a varicosity , followed by observation of the patient for several hours before administration of a second or larger dose .
The possibility of an anaphylactic reaction should be kept in mind , and the physician should be prepared to treat it appropriately .
Because of the danger of thrombosis extension into the deep venous system , thorough preinjection evaluation for valvular competency should be carried out and slow injections with a small amount ( not over 2 mL ) of the preparation should be injected into the varicosity .
Deep venous patency must be determined by noninvasive testing such as duplex ultrasound .
Venous sclerotherapy should not be undertaken if tests such as Trendelenberg and Perthes , and angiography show significant valvular or deep venous incompetence .
The development of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have been reported following sclerotherapy treatment of superficial varicosities .
Patients should have post - treatment follow - up of sufficient duration to assess for the development of deep vein thrombosis .
Embolism may occur as long as four weeks after injection of sodium tetradecyl sulfate .
Adequate post - treatment compression may decrease the incidence of deep vein thrombosis .
Arterial Embolism Stroke , transient ischemic attack , myocardial infarction , and impaired cardiac function have been reported in close temporal relationship with STS administration .
These events may be caused by air embolism when using the product foamed with room air ( high nitrogen concentration ) or thromboembolism .
The safety and efficacy of STS foamed with room air has not been established and its use should be avoided .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Extreme caution must be exercised in the presence of underlying arterial disease such as marked peripheral arteriosclerosis or thromboangiitis obliterans ( Buerger ’ s Disease ) .
DRUG INTERACTIONS No well - controlled studies have been performed on patients taking antiovulatory agents .
The physician must use judgment and evaluate any patient taking antiovulatory drugs prior to initiating treatment with Sotradecol .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS section . )
Heparin should not be included in the same syringe as Sotradecol , since the two are incompatible .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY When tested in the L5178YTK + / - mouse lymphoma assay , sodium tetradecyl sulfate did not induce a dose - related increase in the frequency of thymidine kinase - deficient mutants and , therefore , was judged to be nonmutagenic in this system .
However , no long - term animal carcinogenicity studies with sodium tetradecyl sulfate have been performed .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sotradecol .
It is also not known whether Sotradecol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sotradecol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed and the benefits outweigh the risks .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sotradecol is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions consisting of pain , urticaria or ulceration may occur at the site of injection .
A permanent discoloration may remain along the path of the sclerosed vein segment .
Sloughing and necrosis of tissue may occur following extravasation of the drug .
( See WARNINGS section . )
Allergic reactions such as hives , asthma , hay fever and anaphylactic shock have been reported .
Mild systemic reactions that have been reported include headache , nausea and vomiting .
( See WARNINGS section . )
At least six deaths have been reported with the use of Sotradecol .
Four cases of anaphylactic shock leading to death have been reported in patients who received Sotradecol .
One of these four patients reported a history of asthma , a contraindication to the administration of Sotradecol .
( See WARNINGS section . )
One death has been reported in a patient who received Sotradecol and who had been receiving an antiovulatory agent .
Another death ( fatal pulmonary embolism ) has been reported in a 36 - year - old female treated with sodium tetradecyl acetate and who was not taking oral contraceptives .
Cerebrovascular accident , myocardial infarction DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use if precipitated or discolored .
Sotradecol ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) is for intravenous use only .
The strength of solution required depends on the size and degree of varicosity .
In general , the 1 % solution will be found most useful with the 3 % solution preferred for larger varicosities .
The dosage should be kept small , using 0 . 5 mL to 2 mL ( preferably 1 mL maximum ) for each injection , and the maximum single treatment should not exceed 10 mL .
HOW SUPPLIED Sotradecol ® ( sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection ) NDC 67457 - 162 - 02 carton containing 5 x 2 mL multiple - dose vials with 1 % 20 mg / 2 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) NDC 67457 - 163 - 02 carton containing 5 x 2 mL multiple - dose vials with 3 % 60 mg / 2 mL ( 30 mg / mL ) STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY The intravenous LD50 of sodium tetradecyl sulfate in mice was reported to be 90 ± 5 mg / kg .
In the rat , the acute intravenous LD50 of sodium tetradecyl sulfate was estimated to be between 72 mg / kg and 108 mg / kg .
Purified sodium tetradecyl sulfate was found to have an LD50 of 2 g / kg when administered orally by stomach tube as a 25 % aqueous solution to rats .
In rats given 0 . 15 g / kg in drinking water for 30 days , no appreciable toxicity was seen , although some growth inhibition was discernible .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Rockford , IL 61103 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland Revised : 1 / 2019 MI : SOTRIJ : R6 0521L111 ® Sotradecol is a registered trademark of Mylan Pharma Group Limited PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1563 - 1 - SERIALIZED LABELING AND VIAL LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
