Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) 12 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) 04 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TRIPTODUR is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with central precocious puberty ( CPP ) .
TRIPTODUR is a gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients 2 years and older with central precocious puberty .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Must only be administered by a healthcare provider .
( 2 . 1 ) • Administer TRIPTODUR as a single intramuscular injection of 22 . 5 mg once every 24 weeks .
( 2 . 1 ) • Monitor response with LH levels after a GnRH or GnRH agonist stimulation test , basal LH , or serum concentration of sex steroid levels beginning 1 to 2 months following initiation of therapy , during therapy as necessary to confirm maintenance of efficacy , and with each subsequent dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • Measure height every 3 - 6 months and monitor bone age periodically .
( 2 . 2 ) • See FPI for complete reconstitution and administration instructions .
( 2 . 3 ) • - Once TRIPTODUR is mixed , proceed to the next steps and administer without delay .
( 2 . 3 ) • - The injection of the suspension should be performed rapidly and in a steady and uninterrupted manner in order to avoid any potential blockage of the needle .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information TRIPTODUR must only be administered by a healthcare provider .
The dosage of TRIPTODUR is 22 . 5 mg reconstituted with accompanying diluent ( Sterile Water ) 2 mL , and administered as a single intramuscular injection once every 24 weeks .
TRIPTODUR treatment should be discontinued at the appropriate age of onset of puberty at the discretion of the physician .
2 . 2 Monitoring Monitor response to TRIPTODUR with LH levels after a GnRH or GnRH agonist stimulation test , basal LH , or serum concentration of sex steroid levels beginning 1 to 2 months following initiation of therapy , during therapy as necessary to confirm maintenance of efficacy , and with each subsequent dose .
Measure height ( for calculation of growth rate ) every 3 - 6 months and monitor bone age periodically .
Noncompliance with drug regimen or inadequate dosing may result in inadequate control of the pubertal process with gonadotropins and / or sex steroids increasing above prepubertal levels .
If the dose of TRIPTODUR is not adequate switching to an alternative GnRH agonist for the treatment of CPP with the ability for dose adjustment may be necessary .
2 . 3 Reconstitution and Administration Instructions Read these instructions completely before you begin .
• Triptodur suspension will sediment very quickly and should be injected immediately after reconstitution in accordance with the detailed instructions below .
• If the sequence of steps to prepare the suspension is interrupted and / or the vial is put aside , the suspension will start to separate into diluent and microgranules .
• To minimize the risk of needle blockage during the injection , ensure that the preparation of the injection is not interrupted and / or the mixed suspension syringe is not put aside because the suspension will sediment quickly .
• Use appropriate aseptic technique for preparation and administration .
• Screw the plunger rod into the barrel end of the prefilled sterile water diluent syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • To remove the cap , twist counterclockwise to separate from the Luer lock on the syringe barrel .
• Firmly attach one of the 21 - gauge sterile safety needles onto the prefilled sterile water diluent syringe with a push and clockwise twist .
This 21 - gauge needle will only be used for reconstitution of the product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the plastic Flip - off from the vial .
Disinfect the visible part of the stopper • Pull back on the safety cover towards the syringe and away from the 21 - gauge needle .
Then pull the clear needle shield off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Insert the 21 - gauge needle through the stopper .
Inject the Sterile Water diluent into the vial , ensuring the diluent rinses the sides of the vial .
Do not release the plunger rod .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • If the syringe plunger is not maintained in position , it will naturally withdraw product into the syringe .
Thoroughly mix the vial with agitation for 30 to 60 seconds , ensuring the diluent rinses the sides of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Before moving on to the next step , check visually that the suspension appears milky and homogeneous without any visible aggregates or precipitates .
• If the suspension DOES NOT appear milky and homogeneous without any visible aggregates or precipitates , continue with the agitation .
An up and down agitation can also be used to help eliminate aggregates or precipitates .
The complete and homogeneous ( milky ) suspension of the product may require up to 60 seconds of agitation .
Important : Once mixed , proceed to the next steps and administer without delay .
• The suspension will sediment very quickly so it is imperative to withdraw the suspension into the syringe directly after suspending the product in the vial .
• Invert the vial and move back the syringe in order to position the end of the 21 - gauge needle very near the level of the stopper , making sure the needle lumen is still completely in the vial .
• Pull back the plunger rod slowly to withdraw the reconstituted product into the syringe , withdrawing as much of the reconstituted product into the syringe as possible .
Move the tip of the needle at the level of the stopper so as to be able to withdraw a maximum amount of suspension .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Withdraw the needle from the vial and push the safety cover forward toward the needle until you hear and / or feel it lock .
Then remove the first 21 - gauge needle by grasping the needle hub to disconnect the needle from the syringe and discard it .
This ( first ) 21 - gauge needle will no longer be used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Firmly attach the second sterile needle onto the syringe with a push and clockwise twist and pull back the safety cover towards the syringe .
This 21 - gauge needle will be used for administration .
Triptodur must only be administered with a thin - wall 21 - gauge needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not prime the needle .
Inspect the suspension visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
• If the suspension does not appear milky and homogeneous , continue with an up and down agitation .
• If the suspension appears milky and homogeneous without visable aggregates or precipitates , administer the suspension immediately .
• Inject the patient intramuscularly , preferably in either buttock or thigh using the entire contents of the syringe .
The injection of the suspension should be performed rapidly and in a steady and uninterrupted manner in order to avoid any potential blockage of the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After administering the injection , immediately activate the safety cover : • Center your thumb or forefinger on the textured finger pad area of the safety cover and push it forward over the needle until you hear or feel it lock .
• Use the one - handed technique and activate the mechanism away from yourself and others .
• Immediately discard the syringe assembly into a suitable sharps container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For extended - release injectable suspension : 22 . 5 mg of triptorelin as a lyophilized white to slightly yellow powder cake in a single - dose vial for reconstitution with the co - packaged 2 mL of diluent ( Sterile Water ) for Injection .
For extended - release injectable suspension : 22 . 5 mg of triptorelin as a powder cake for reconstitution with the co - packaged 2 mL of diluent Sterile Water for Injection .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity : TRIPTODUR is contraindicated in individuals with a known hypersensitivity to triptorelin , any other component of the product , or other GnRH agonists or GnRH [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Pregnancy : TRIPTODUR may cause fetal harm [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity reactions ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Initial Rise of Gonadotropins and Sex Steroid Levels : An increase in clinical signs and symptoms of puberty may be observed during the first 2 - 4 weeks of therapy since gonadotropins and sex steroids rise above baseline because of the initial stimulatory effect of the drug .
( 5 . 1 ) • Psychiatric events : Have been reported in patients taking GnRH agonists .
Events include emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression .
Monitor for development or worsening of psychiatric symptoms .
( 5 . 2 ) • Convulsions : Have been observed in patients with or without a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and in patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions .
( 5 . 3 ) • Pseudotumor Cerebri ( Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension ) : Have been reported in pediatric patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Monitor patients for headache , papilledema , and blurred vision .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Initial Rise of Gonadotropins and Sex Steroid Levels During the early phase of initial therapy or after subsequent doses , gonadotropins and sex steroids may rise above baseline because of a transient stimulatory effect of the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Therefore , a transient increase in clinical signs and symptoms of puberty , including vaginal bleeding , may be observed during the first weeks of therapy or after subsequent doses .
5 . 2 Psychiatric Events Psychiatric events have been reported in patients taking GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Post - marketing reports with this class of drugs include symptoms of emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression .
Monitor for development or worsening of psychiatric symptoms during treatment with TRIPTODUR [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Convulsions Postmarketing reports of convulsions have been observed in patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
These included patients with a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions such as bupropion and SSRIs .
Convulsions have also been reported in patients in the absence of any of the conditions mentioned above [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 4 Pseudotumor Cerebri Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension Pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) has been reported in pediatric patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri , including headache , papilledema , blurred vision , diplopia , loss of vision , pain behind the eye or pain with eye movement , tinnitus , dizziness , and nausea .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described here and elsewhere in the label : • Initial Rise of Gonadotropins and Sex Steroid Levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Psychiatric Events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Convulsions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pseudotumor Cerebri ( Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] In clinical trials for TRIPTODUR , the most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 4 . 5 % ) are injection site reactions , menstrual ( vaginal ) bleeding , hot flush , headache , cough , and infections ( bronchitis , gastroenteritis , influenza , nasopharyngitis , otitis externa , pharyngitis , sinusitis , and upper respiratory tract infection ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 461 - 7449 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of TRIPTODUR was evaluated in one uncontrolled , open - label single - arm clinical trial in which 44 children with central precocious puberty received two doses of TRIPTODUR and were observed for 12 months .
The median age of the study population was 8 years ( range 2 - 9 years ) at treatment start ; 88 . 6 % of subjects were female , 59 . 1 % were White , 27 . 3 % were Black and 4 . 5 % were Asian .
Table 1 shows all the adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 patients ( ≥ 4 . 5 % ) during the open - label single - arm trial .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] Occurring in ≥ 2 Patients Treated with TRIPTODUR in an Open - Label Single - Arm TrialAdverse Reactions Number of Patients Reporting Event ( % ) ( Total N = 44 ) Infections & Infestations Bronchitis 2 ( 4 . 5 ) Gastroenteritis 3 ( 6 . 8 ) Influenza 2 ( 4 . 5 ) Nasopharyngitis 6 ( 13 . 6 ) Otitis externa 2 ( 4 . 5 ) Pharyngitis 2 ( 4 . 5 ) Sinusitis 2 ( 4 . 5 ) Upper respiratory tract infection 4 ( 9 . 1 ) Nervous System Disorders Headache 6 ( 13 . 6 ) Reproductive System & Breast Disorders Menstrual ( Vaginal bleeding ) [ 2 ] 3 ( 7 . 7 ) Respiratory , Thoracic & Mediastinal Disorder Cough 3 ( 6 . 8 ) Vascular Disorders Hot flush 2 ( 4 . 5 ) [ 1 ] Injection site reactions are presented separately [ 2 ] Includes % of patients with vaginal bleeding or menstrual disorder ( " menstrual cycle returned " ) in 39 females out of N = 44 .
Other Selected Adverse Reactions : Injection Site Reactions Injection site reactions occurring in patients immediately and / or 2 hours after injection include pain ( 45 % ) , redness ( 14 % ) , pruritus ( 2 . 3 % ) and swelling ( 2 . 3 % ) .
Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety ( 2 . 3 % ) and mood altered ( 2 . 3 % ) 6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of triptorelin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Anaphylactic shock , anaphylactoid reaction , angioedema , urticaria .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension .
Psychiatric : Emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression .
Depression , including rare reports of suicidal ideation and attempt .
Many , but not all , of these patients had a history of psychiatric illness or other comorbidities with an increased risk of depression .
Nervous System : Convulsions , pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) Vision Disorders : Visual impairment , visual disturbance 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drug - Drug Interactions Results of in vitro studies show that drug - drug interactions with triptorelin are unlikely [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
However , in the absence of relevant data and as a precaution , hyperprolactinemic drugs should not be used concomitantly with triptorelin since hyperprolactinemia reduces the number of pituitary GnRH receptors .
7 . 2 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of TRIPTODUR results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
The effect of TRIPTODUR on pituitary and gonadal function is expected to disappear within six to twelve months after treatment discontinuation .
Therefore , diagnostic tests of pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during treatment or after discontinuation of treatment may be affected .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary TRIPTODUR is contraindicated in women who are pregnant [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] since expected hormonal changes that occur with TRIPTODUR treatment increase the risk for pregnancy loss .
Available data with triptorelin use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Based on mechanism of action in humans and findings of increased pregnancy loss in animal studies , TRIPTODUR may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In pregnant rats administered triptorelin at doses of 2 , 10 , and 100 mcg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis , maternal toxicity ( decrease in body weight ) and embryo - fetal toxicities ( pre - implantation loss , increased resorption , and reduced number of viable fetuses ) were observed at 100 mcg / kg , approximately 4 times the clinical dose based on body surface area .
No embryonic and fetal developmental toxicities were observed in mice at doses up to 4 times the clinical dose .
Teratogenic effects were not observed in viable fetuses in rats or mice .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of triptorelin in human milk , or the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for TRIPTODUR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from TRIPTODUR or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TRIPTODUR have been established in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older based on a single - arm open - label study of 44 children 2 - 9 years of age with CPP [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of TRIPTODUR have not been established in pediatric patients less than 2 years old .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment TRIPTODUR has not been studied in children with renal impairment .
Adult subjects with renal impairment had higher exposure than young healthy adult males [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment TRIPTODUR has not been studied in children with hepatic impairment .
Adult subjects with hepatic impairment had higher exposure than young healthy adult males [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no experience with overdosage in clinical trials of triptorelin .
If overdosage occurs , therapy should be discontinued and appropriate supportive and symptomatic treatment administered .
11 DESCRIPTION TRIPTODUR contains the pamoate salt of triptorelin , a synthetic decapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH or LHRH ) .
The chemical name of triptorelin pamoate is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - tryptophyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - L - prolylglycine amide ( pamoate salt ) .
The molecular weight is 1699 . 9 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] TRIPTODUR for extended release injectable suspension for intramuscular use is provided as a sterile , lyophilized , biodegradable microgranule formulation in a single - dose vial , co - packaged with a syringe containing 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection for reconstitution of the lyophilisate .
The triptorelin formulation is comprised of 22 . 5 mg triptorelin ( equivalent to 31 mg triptorelin pamoate ) , carboxymethylcellulose sodium ( 26 mg ) , mannitol ( 74 mg ) , poly - d , l - lactide - co - glycolide ( 183 mg ) , and polysorbate 80 ( 1 . 7 mg ) .
When 2 mL Sterile Water for Injection is added to the vial containing TRIPTODUR and mixed , a suspension is formed which is intended as a single intramuscular injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Triptorelin is a GnRH agonist .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Following the first administration , there is a transient surge in circulating levels of LH , FSH , testosterone , and estradiol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
After chronic and continuous administration , by 4 weeks after initiation of therapy , a sustained decrease in LH and FSH secretion and marked reduction in sex steroids are observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After an initial intramuscular TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg injection and a second 22 . 5 mg intramuscular injection 24 weeks later in children 2 to 9 years old with CPP , triptorelin peaked 4 hours postdose with a geometric mean Cmax of 39 . 9 and 36 . 5 ng / mL , respectively .
No apparent accumulation of triptorelin occurred after the second injection .
Absorption occurred in two phases , a burst phase followed by a maintenance release phase .
In children with CPP , following the burst phase after the first 22 . 5 mg injection , geometric mean serum triptorelin levels were 0 . 11 , 0 . 17 , 0 . 05 and 0 . 03 ng / mL at Months 1 , 2 , 3 , and 6 , respectively .
Distribution There is no evidence that triptorelin , at clinically relevant concentrations , binds to plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism The metabolism of triptorelin in humans is unknown , but is unlikely to involve hepatic microsomal enzymes ( cytochrome P450 ) .
Thus far no metabolites of triptorelin have been identified .
Pharmacokinetic data suggest that C - terminal fragments produced by tissue degradation are either completely degraded in the tissues , or rapidly degraded in plasma , or cleared by the kidneys .
Excretion Triptorelin is eliminated by both the liver and the kidneys .
Following intravenous administration of 0 . 5 mg triptorelin peptide to six healthy male volunteers with a creatinine clearance of 149 . 9 mL / min , 41 . 7 % of the dose was excreted in urine as intact peptide with a total triptorelin clearance of 211 . 9 mL / min .
This percentage increased to 62 . 3 % in patients with liver disease who have a lower creatinine clearance ( 89 . 9 mL / min ) .
It has also been observed that the nonrenal clearance of triptorelin ( patient anuric , Clcreat = 0 ) was 76 . 2 mL / min , thus indicating that the nonrenal elimination of triptorelin is mainly dependent on the liver .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment After intravenous bolus injection of 0 . 5 mg triptorelin in adults , the two distribution half - lives were unaffected by renal impairment .
However , renal insufficiency led to a decrease in total triptorelin clearance proportional to the decrease in creatinine clearance as well as increases in volume of distribution and consequently , an increase in the elimination half - life .
Adult male subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment had approximately 2 - fold higher exposure ( AUC values ) than young healthy adult males ( see Table 1 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment After intravenous bolus injection of 0 . 5 mg triptorelin in adults , the two distribution half - lives were unaffected by hepatic impairment .
In adult males with hepatic insufficiency , triptorelin clearance was reduced and exposure ( AUC ) was increased 3 . 7 - fold compared to young healthy adult males ( Table 2 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Table 2 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) in Healthy Adults , Adults with Renal Impairment , and Adults with Hepatic Impairment Following an I . V . Bolus of 0 . 5 mg Triptorelin in SolutionGroup Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUCinf ( h ∙ ng / mL ) Clp ( mL / min ) Clrenal ( mL / min ) t1 / 2 ( h ) Clcreat ( mL / min ) 6 healthy male volunteers 48 . 2 ± 11 . 8 36 . 1 ± 5 . 8 211 . 9 ± 31 . 6 90 . 6 ± 35 . 3 2 . 81 ± 1 . 21 149 . 9 ± 7 . 3 6 males with moderate renal impairment 45 . 6 ± 20 . 5 69 . 9 ± 24 . 6 120 . 0 ± 45 . 0 23 . 3 ± 17 . 6 6 . 56 ± 1 . 25 39 . 7 ± 22 . 5 6 males with severe renal impairment 46 . 5 ± 14 . 0 88 . 0 ± 18 . 4 88 . 6 ± 19 . 7 4 . 3 ± 2 . 9 7 . 65 ± 1 . 25 8 . 9 ± 6 . 0 6 males with liver disease 54 . 1 ± 5 . 3 131 . 9 ± 18 . 1 57 . 8 ± 8 . 0 35 . 9 ± 5 . 0 7 . 58 ± 1 . 17 89 . 9 ± 15 . 1 Drug - Drug Interactions In Vitro Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug Metabolizing Enzyme Inhibition Triptorelin did not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 or 2D6 , or CYP 3A4 / 5 at clinically relevant concentrations .
Drug Metabolizing Enzyme Induction In fresh human hepatocytes from three human donors , triptorelin did not induce CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 / 5 activity .
Transporters Triptorelin was a poor P - gp substrate and had no inhibitory effect toward P - gp .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis was evaluated in an 18 - month study in mice and a 24 - month study in rats .
In rats , triptorelin doses of 120 , 600 , and 3000 mcg / kg given every 28 days ( approximately 0 . 2 , 0 . 8 , and 4 times the estimated human monthly dose based on body surface area ) resulted in increased mortality with a drug treatment period of 13 to 19 months .
The incidences of benign and malignant pituitary tumors and histosarcomas were increased in a dose - related manner .
There were no treatment - related tumors in mice at exposure up to 4 - fold higher than the estimated human monthly dose based on body surface area .
Mutagenicity studies performed with triptorelin using bacterial and mammalian systems ( in vitro Ames test and chromosomal aberration test in CHO cells and an in vivo mouse micronucleus test ) provided no evidence of mutagenic potential .
After 60 days of subcutaneous treatment followed by a minimum of four estrus cycles prior to mating , triptorelin at doses of 2 , 20 , and 200 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 07 , 0 . 7 , and 7 times the estimated human daily dose based on body surface area ) or two monthly injections as slow release microspheres ( ~ 20 mcg / kg / day ) had no effect on the fertility or general reproductive function of female rats .
No studies were conducted to assess the effect of triptorelin on male fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a single - arm open - label study , 44 children 2 to 9 years of age with CPP , 39 females and 5 males , all naïve to previous GnRH agonist treatment , were administered TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg at a dosing interval of 24 weeks .
Subjects were evaluated over two dosing intervals for a total of 12 months .
TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg suppressed pituitary release of LH and FSH and , consequently , gonadal secretion of estradiol in girls and testosterone in boys ( Table 3 ) .
At all timepoints evaluated , ≥ 93 % of children achieved LH suppression to prepubertal levels ( i . e . , serum LH ≤ 5 IU / L 30 minutes after GnRH agonist stimulation ) , ≥ 79 % of girls achieved prepubertal levels of estradiol ( i . e . , < 20 pg / mL ) , and ≥ 80 % of boys achieved prepubertal levels of testosterone ( i . e . , < 30 ng / dL ) .
TRIPTODUR arrested or reversed progression of clinical signs of puberty with 95 % of children showing no increase in the bone age / chronological age ratio , and 89 % showing stabilization of sexual maturation at Month 12 .
Table 3 : Efficacy of TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg Administered Every 6 Months to Children with CPP [ 1 ] Endpoint % ( n / N ) of Children Achieving Endpoint Month 1 Month 2 Month 3 Month 6 Month 9 Month 12 % with prepubertal LH ( GnRH - stim LH ≤ 5 IU / L ) 95 % ( 42 / 44 ) 95 % ( 42 / 44 ) 95 % ( 42 / 44 ) 93 % [ 2 ] ( 41 / 44 ) 95 % ( 42 / 44 ) 98 % ( 43 / 44 ) % girls with prepubertal estradiol ( < 20 pg / mL ) 87 % ( 34 / 39 ) 89 % ( 34 / 38 ) 92 % ( 36 / 39 ) 79 % ( 31 / 39 ) 82 % ( 32 / 39 ) 79 % ( 31 / 39 ) % boys with prepubertal testosterone ( < 30 ng / dL ) 80 % ( 4 / 5 ) 80 % ( 4 / 5 ) 100 % ( 5 / 5 ) 100 % ( 5 / 5 ) 80 % ( 4 / 5 ) 80 % ( 4 / 5 ) % with no increase in BA / CA [ 3 ] ratio vs . baseline 64 % ( 28 / 44 ) 95 % ( 42 / 44 ) % achieving stabilization of sexual maturation 91 % ( 40 / 44 ) 89 % ( 39 / 44 ) % girls with regression of uterine length 69 % ( 27 / 39 ) 77 % ( 30 / 39 ) % boys with no progression in testis volumes 100 % ( 5 / 5 ) 100 % ( 5 / 5 ) [ 1 ] Intent - to - Treat population [ 2 ] Primary efficacy endpoint [ 3 ] Bone Age / Chronological Age Following the second TRIPTODUR injection , 22 children ( all girls ) were assessed for evidence of an acute - on - chronic phenomenon ( i . e . , increase in basal LH > 5 IU / L or serum estradiol level > 20 pg / mL 48 hours after the second triptorelin injection ) .
Of these , one girl who achieved prepubertal hormone levels prior to the second injection showed biochemical evidence of acute - on - chronic phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg single - use kit ( NDC 24338 - 150 - 20 ) contains : • One single - dose vial of TRIPTODUR 22 . 5 mg ( NDC 24338 - 150 - 01 ) with a Flip - Off seal containing sterile lyophilized white to slightly yellow powder cake • One sterile , glass syringe with Luer Lock prefilled with 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection ( NDC 24338 - 150 - 02 ) • Two sterile 21 gauge , 1 ½ " needles ( thin - wall ) with safety cover • One Package Insert Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Medication Guide ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform caregivers that anaphylactic shock , hypersensitivity , and angioedema have been reported with triptorelin use and to immediately seek medical attention if any hypersensitivity reaction occurs .
Symptoms after Initial TRIPTODUR Administration Inform caregivers that during the first weeks after the first TRIPTODUR injection , signs of puberty may occur such as vaginal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Caregivers should notify the physician if these symptoms continue beyond the second month after TRIPTODUR administration .
Psychiatric Events Inform caregivers that symptoms of emotional lability , such as crying , irritability , impatience , anger , and aggression have been observed in patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Alert caregivers to the possibility of development or worsening of psychiatric symptoms , including depression , during treatment with TRIPTODUR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Convulsions Inform caregivers that reports of convulsions have been observed in patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Patients with a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions may be at increased risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pseudotumor Cerebri ( Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension ) Inform patients and caregivers that reports of pseudotumor cerebri ( idiopathic intracranial hypertension ) have been observed in pediatric patients receiving GnRH agonists , including triptorelin .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri , including headache , and vision issues such as blurred vision , double vision , loss of vision , pain behind the eye or pain with eye movement , ringing in the ears , dizziness , and nausea .
Advise patients and caregivers to contact their healthcare provider if the patient develops any of these symptoms .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pregnancy is Contraindicated TRIPTODUR is contraindicated in pregnancy .
If the patient becomes pregnant while taking the drug , the patient should be informed of the potential risk to fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Compliance with the Dosing Schedule Inform caregivers about the importance of adherence to the TRIPTODUR dosing schedule of one injection every 24 weeks .
Patients should not miss or delay a scheduled dose .
Manufactured for : Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Woburn , MA 01801 Manufactured by : Debiopharm Research & Manufacturing SA CH - 1920 Martigny , Switzerland TRIPTODUR is a registered trademark of Debiopharm International SA .
TRIP - PI - 07 MEDICATION GUIDE TRIPTODUR ® [ TRIP - toe - der ] ( triptorelin ) for extended - release injectable suspension , for intramuscular use This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Rev : 12 / 2022 What is the most important information I should know about TRIPTODUR ?
• In the first few weeks after your child receives their first TRIPTODUR injection or after additional injections , TRIPTODUR can cause a brief increase in some hormones .
During this time you may notice more signs of puberty in your child , including vaginal bleeding .
Call your child ' s doctor if signs of puberty continue after 2 months of receiving TRIPTODUR .
• Some people taking gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonists like TRIPTODUR have had new or worsened mental ( psychiatric ) problems .
Mental ( psychiatric ) problems may include emotional symptoms such as : • crying • irritability • restlessness ( impatience ) • anger • acting aggressive Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has any new or worsening emotional symptoms while taking TRIPTODUR .
• Some people taking GnRH agonists like TRIPTODUR have had seizures .
The risk of seizures may be higher in people who : • have a history of seizures • have a history of epilepsy • have a history of brain or brain vessel ( cerebrovascular ) problems or tumors • are taking a medicine that has been connected with seizures such as bupropion or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) Seizures have also happened in people who have not had any of these problems .
Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has a seizure while taking TRIPTODUR .
Increased pressure in the fluid around the brain can happen in children taking GnRH agonists medicines including TRIPTODUR .
• Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child has any of the following symptoms during treatment with TRIPTODUR : • headache • eye problems , including blurred vision , double vision and decreased eyesight • eye pain • ringing in the ears • dizziness • nausea What is TRIPTODUR ?
• TRIPTODUR is an injectable prescription GnRH medicine used for the treatment of children with central precocious puberty ( CPP ) .
• It is not known if TRIPTODUR is safe and effective in children under 2 years of age .
TRIPTODUR should not be taken if your child is : • allergic to gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) , GnRH agonist medicines , or any ingredients in TRIPTODUR .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in TRIPTODUR .
• Some people taking triptorelin , the active ingredient in TRIPTODUR , have had serious allergic reactions .
Call your child ' s doctor or get emergency medical help right away if your child gets any of the following symptoms of a serious allergic reaction : • skin rashes , redness , or swelling • trouble breathing or swallowing • throat tightness , hoarseness • severe itching • fast heart beat • swelling of face , mouth , and tongue • hives • sweating • dizziness or fainting • pregnant or becomes pregnant .
TRIPTODUR can cause birth defects or loss of the baby .
If your child becomes pregnant call your doctor .
Before your child receives TRIPTODUR , tell your child ' s doctor about all of your child ' s medical conditions , including if they : • have a history of mental ( psychiatric ) problems .
• have a history of seizures .
• have a history of epilepsy .
• have a history of brain or brain vessel ( cerebrovascular ) problems or tumors .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TRIPTODUR passes into breastmilk .
Tell the doctor about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will your child receive TRIPTODUR ?
• Your child ' s doctor should do tests to make sure your child has CPP before treating them with TRIPTODUR .
• TRIPTODUR must only be given by a healthcare professional .
• TRIPTODUR is given as a single intramuscular ( in the muscle ) injection 1 time every 24 weeks .
• Keep all scheduled visits to the doctor .
Do not delay a scheduled dose .
The doctor will do regular exams and blood tests to check for signs of puberty .
What are the possible side effects of TRIPTODUR ?
TRIPTODUR may cause serious side effects .
See " What is the most important information I should know about TRIPTODUR ? "
The most common side effects of TRIPTODUR include injection site reactions , menstrual ( vaginal ) bleeding , hot flush , headache , cough , and infections ( bronchitis , gastroenteritis , influenza , nasopharyngitis , otitis externa , pharyngitis , sinusitis , and upper respiratory tract infection ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of TRIPTODUR .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What are the ingredients in TRIPTODUR ?
Active ingredient : triptorelin Inactive ingredients : carboxymethylcellulose sodium , mannitol , poly - d , l - lactide - co - glycolide , and polysorbate 80 Distributed by : Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Woburn , MA 01801 Manufactured by : Debiopharm Research & Manufacturing SA , CH - 1920 Martigny , Switzerland For more information about TRIPTODUR , please contact Azurity Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 461 - 7449 .
TRIPTODUR is a registered trademark of Debiopharm International SA .
TRIP - MG - 06 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton NDC 24338 - 150 - 20 Rx Only Triptodur ® ( triptorelin ) for extended - release injectable suspension 22 . 5 mg KIT 22 . 5 mg every 24 weeks FOR INTRAMUSCULAR USE Must only be administered by a healthcare professional .
Give once every 24 weeks .
Single - Dose Delivery System See package insert for full prescribing information .
Contents : • – One Single - Dose Vial • – One Pre - filled Syringe of Diluent ( sterile water ) for Triptodur , 2 mL • – Two thin - walled , 21 - gauge , 1 ½ " Needles Reconstitute With Accompanying Diluent Before Use .
After reconstitution , ensure there are no visible precipitates in the vial and administer immediately .
Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
azurity ® pharmaceuticals [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
