DESCRIPTION Nystatin is obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
It is known to be a mixture , but the composition has not been completely elucidated .
Nystatin A is closely related to amphotericin B . Each is a macro - cyclic lactone containing a ketal ring , an all - trans polyene system , and a mycosamine ( 3 - amino - 3 - deoxyrhamose ) moiety .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Oral Suspension , for oral administration , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL .
Inactive ingredients : alcohol ( ≤ 1 % v / v ) , sucrose 50 % w / v , peppermint oil , NF , cinnamaldehyde , disodium hydrogen phosphate , USP , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , USP , glycerin , USP , saccharin sodium , USP , cherry flavor , methylparaben , NF , propylparaben , NF and purified water , USP .
May also contain sodium hydroxide , NF and / or hydrochloric acid , NF for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is absorbed very sparingly following oral administration , with no detectable blood levels when given in the recommended doses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of infections of the oral cavity caused by Candida albicans .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to nystatin or any of the suspension components .
PRECAUTIONS General Discontinue treatment with nystatin if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Nystatin is not effective in the treatment of systemic mycoses since it is not significantly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Information for the Patient Patient should be advised to retain nystatin in the mouth as long as possible and to continue its use for at least 2 days after symptoms have subsided .
There should be no interruption or discontinuation of the medication until the prescribed course of treatment is completed , even though symptomatic relief may occur within a few days .
If symptoms of local irritation develop , the physician should be notified immediately .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , appropriate microbiological studies ( e .
g . , KOH smears and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis of candidiasis and rule out other pathogens before instituting another course of therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
In mice exposed to nystatin 50 mg / kg by injection , an increased incidence of chromosomal aberrations , consisting primarily of chromatid breaks , was observed in bone marrow cells .
However , there have been no studies to determine the mutagenicity of orally - administered nystatin or its effects on fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Teratogenicity studies have not been conducted with nystatin .
It is also not known whether nystatin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects In one rat reproductive study , nystatin was administered orally to pregnant rats in single doses of 100 , 500 , or 3000 mg / kg on the ninth day of gestation , or as multiple doses of 500 mg / kg / day on gestation days 1 - 20 , 1 - 4 , 7 - 10 , 11 - 14 , or 15 - 18 .
It was found that nystatin had a slight abortive effect when used during the whole period of pregnancy .
No abnormalities were seen in surviving fetuses .
Although no adverse effects or complications have been attributed to the use of intra - vaginal nystatin in neonates born to women treated during pregnancy , no similar studies evaluating complications of oral nystatin have been conducted .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section for pediatric dosing recommendations .
ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 OR LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 1 - 844 - 740 - 7500 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea , gastrointestinal distress , nausea , vomiting and burning of the mouth have been reported .
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash , pruritus , and anaphylactoid reaction have also been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infants : 2 mL ( 200 , 000 units ) four times daily ( 1 mL in each side of mouth ) .
Pediatric patients and adults : 4 to 6 mL ( 400 , 000 to 600 , 000 units ) four times daily ( one - half of dose in each side of mouth ) .
NOTE : Limited clinical studies in neonates , including premature and low - birth weight neonates , indicate that 1 mL ( 100 , 000 units ) four times daily is effective .
Local treatment should be continued at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and / or cultures returned to normal .
It is recommended that the drug be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing .
CAUTION The Packaging of This Product Contains Natural Rubber Latex Which May Cause Allergic Reactions HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP , 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL , is available as a cherry - mint flavored , light creamy yellow , ready - to - use suspension , in the following sizes : 60 mL bottles with a child - resistant cap and calibrated dropper .
1 Pint ( 473 mL ) bottles with a child - resistant cap .
Storage This package is child - resistant .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid freezing NDC for 60 ml : 69315 - 504 - 60 NDC for 473 ml : 69315 - 504 - 47 Rx Only Manufactured by : Medley Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
Plot No . 18 and 19 , Survey No . 378 / 7 & 8 , 379 / 2 & 3 , Zari Causeway Road , Kachigam , Daman - 396210 , INDIA .
Distributed by : Leading Pharma , LLC 3 Oak Rd , Fairfield , .
New Jersey ( NJ ) 07004 , United States ( USA ) REV . 03 / 22 P000324 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
