Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 2 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • hand wipes to decrease bacteria on the skin • recommended for repeated use • for use when soap and water are not available Warnings For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product • do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Do not inhale Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping • supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing • discard wipe in trash after use .
Do not flush Other information • store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera ( Aloe barbadensis ) leaf juice , citric acid , decyl glucoside , ethylhexylglycerin , fragrance , glycerin , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 20 , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , tocopheryl acetate , water 3 X STRONGER Kills 99 % OF COMMON GERMS * COTTONY SOFT NON - ALCOHOL FORMULA Crisp Orange GENTLE ON HANDS EXTRA SOFT WIPE WITH ALOE √ Kills 99 % of many common harmful germs and bacteria * √ Removes light soils and dirt from hands √ Gentle on hands √ Multi - layered Wipe .
3 X Stronger vs . Paper Towel1 TO OPEN PACKAGE : 1 .
Pull out wipe from center of roll .
2 .
Next sheet pops up automatically .
3 .
Close lid to retain moisture .
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL : Dispose of wipe in trash after use .
Do not flush .
Tightly close lid between uses to retain moisture .
Non refillable container .
Do not reuse or refill this empty container .
Offer empty container for recycling .
If recycling is not available , discard container in trash .
Questions or Comments ?
Please visit www . kolmedusa . com .
Mon - Fri 9 AM - 6 PM PST Distributed by : Passhion Inc 3192 Factory Dr , Pomona , CA , 91768 KOLMED is a registered trademark of Passhion Inc Made in China Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
