1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ERTACZO ® cream , 2 % , is indicated for the topical treatment of interdigital tinea pedis in immunocompetent adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
ERTACZO cream , 2 % is an azole antifungal indicated for the topical treatment of interdigital tinea pedis in immunocompetent adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Apply ERTACZO cream , 2 % twice daily for 4 weeks .
Apply a sufficient amount of ERTACZO cream , 2 % to cover both the affected areas between the toes and the immediately surrounding healthy skin .
• • Use ERTACZO cream , 2 % for the full treatment time recommended by the physician , even though symptoms may have improved .
• • Dry the affected area ( s ) thoroughly before application , if using ERTACZO cream , 2 % after bathing .
• • Wash hands after use .
• • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings .
• • For topical use .
• • Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
• • Apply ERTACZO cream , 2 % to the affected and immediate surrounding area ( s ) twice daily for 4 weeks .
( 2 ) • • Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 2 % .
Each gram of ERTACZO cream , 2 % , contains 17 . 5 mg of sertaconazole ( as sertaconazole nitrate , 20 mg ) in a white cream base .
Cream , 2 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Local Adverse Reactions If irritation develops , discontinue treatment and institute appropriate therapy .
Physicians should exercise caution when prescribing ERTACZO cream , 2 % , to patients known to be sensitive to azole antifungals since cross - reactivity may occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions observed in clinical trials ( incidence > 2 % ) were contact dermatitis , dry skin , burning skin , application site skin tenderness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , cutaneous adverse events occurred in 7 of 297 ( 2 % ) subjects ( 2 of them severe ) receiving ERTACZO cream , 2 % , and in 7 of 291 ( 2 % ) subjects ( 2 of them severe ) receiving vehicle .
These reported cutaneous adverse events included contact dermatitis , dry skin , burning skin , and application site skin tenderness .
In a dermal sensitization trial , 8 of 202 evaluable subjects tested with ERTACZO cream , 2 % , and 4 of 202 evaluable subjects tested with vehicle exhibited a erythematous reaction in the challenge phase .
There was no evidence of cumulative irritation or contact sensitization in a repeated insult patch test involving 202 healthy volunteers .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ERTACZO cream , 2 % .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cutaneous adverse events : erythema , pruritus , vesiculation , desquamation , and hyperpigmentation .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on ERTACZO cream , 2 % use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental effects observed with oral administration of sertaconazole nitrate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses 40 and 80 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on body surface area ( BSA ) comparison .
In rats , when maternal dosing was continued until weaning , a reduction in live birth indices and an increase in the number of still - born pups was observed at doses 20 and 40 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of major birth defects , loss and other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Animal embryofetal development studies have not been conducted with ERTACZO cream , 2 % .
Embryofetal development studies performed in pregnant rats and rabbits administered oral doses of sertaconzaole nitrate up to 160 mg / kg / day ( 40 times [ rats ] and 80 times [ rabbits ] the MRHD based on a BSA comparison ) during the period of organogenesis revealed no malformations or embryofetal developmental toxicity .
In a pre - and postnatal development study , pregnant rats were administered oral doses of sertaconazole nitrate from pregnancy day 6 to lactation day 20 .
A reduction in live birth indices and an increase in the number of still - born pups were seen at doses 20 and 40 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available on the presence of sertaconazole in human or animal milk , its effects on the breastfed infant , or its effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ERTACZO cream , 2 % and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ERTACZO cream , 2 % or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ERTACZO cream , 2 % , have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of ERTACZO cream , 2 % , did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION ERTACZO ( sertaconazole nitrate ) cream , 2 % , is for topical application .
It contains the azole antifungal , sertaconazole nitrate .
Sertaconazole nitrate contains one asymmetric carbon atom and exists as a racemic mixture of equal amounts of R and S enantiomers .
Sertaconazole nitrate is designated chemically as ( ± ) - 1 - [ 2 , 4 - dichloro - β - [ ( 7 - chlorobenzo - [ b ] thien - 3 - yl ) methoxy ] phenethyl ] imidazole nitrate .
It has a molecular weight of 500 . 8 .
The molecular formula is C20H15Cl3N2OS ● HNO3 , and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sertaconazole nitrate is a white or almost white powder .
It is practically insoluble in water , soluble in methanol , and sparingly soluble in alcohol and in methylene chloride .
Each gram of ERTACZO cream , 2 % , contains 17 . 5 mg of sertaconazole ( as sertaconazole nitrate , 20 mg ) in a white cream base of ethylene glycol , glyceryl isostearate , glycolized saturated glycerides , light mineral oil , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol palmitostearate , polyoxyethylened saturated glycerides , purified water , and sorbic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sertaconazole nitrate is an azole antifungal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a multiple - dose pharmacokinetic trial that included 5 male subjects with interdigital tinea pedis ( range of diseased area , 42 - 140 cm2 ; mean , 93 cm2 ) , ERTACZO cream , 2 % , was topically applied every 12 hours for a total of 13 doses to the diseased skin ( 0 . 5 g sertaconazole nitrate per 100 cm2 ) .
Sertaconazole concentrations in plasma measured by serial blood sampling for 72 hours after the thirteenth dose were below the limit of quantitation ( 2 . 5 ng / mL ) of the analytical method used .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Sertaconazole , an azole antifungal agent , inhibits fungal cytochrome P - 450 - mediated 14 alpha - lanosterol demethylase enzyme .
This enzyme functions to convert lanosterol to ergosterol .
Ergosterol is a key component of fungal cell membranes and lack of this component leads to fungal cell injury by leakage of key constituents in the cytoplasm from the cell .
Activity In Vitro and in Clinical Infections Sertaconazole nitrate has been shown to be active against isolates of the following microorganisms in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : • Trichophyton rubrum • Trichophyton mentagrophytes • Epidermophyton floccosum 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year rat dermal carcinogenicity study , topical administration of sertaconazole nitrate cream did not increase the number of neoplastic lesions compared to control animals , at sertaconazole nitrate doses of up to 800 mg / kg / day ( 200 times the MRHD based on a BSA comparison ) .
No clastogenic potential was observed in a mouse micronucleus test .
Sertaconazole nitrate was nonclastogenic in the in vivo mouse sister chromatid exchange assay .
There was no evidence that sertaconazole nitrate induced unscheduled DNA synthesis in primary rat hepatocyte cultures .
Rats treated orally with up to 160 mg / kg / day of sertaconazole nitrate ( 40 times the MRHD based on a BSA comparison ) , exhibited no toxicity or adverse effects on reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two randomized , double - blind clinical trials , subjects 12 years and older with interdigital tinea pedis applied either ERTACZO cream , 2 % , or vehicle , twice daily for 4 weeks .
Subjects with moccasin - type ( plantar ) tinea pedis and / or onychomycosis were excluded from the trial .
Two weeks after completion of therapy ( 6 weeks after beginning therapy ) , subjects were evaluated for signs and symptoms related to interdigital tinea pedis .
Treatment outcomes are summarized in the table below .
Treatment Outcomes as Percent ( % ) of Total Subjects with Interdigital Tinea Pedis Trial 1 Trial 2 Sertaconazole Vehicle Sertaconazole Vehicle Complete Cure * ( Primary Efficacy Variable ) 13 / 99 ( 13 . 1 % ) 3 / 92 ( 3 . 3 % ) 28 / 103 ( 27 . 2 % ) 5 / 103 ( 4 . 9 % ) Effective Treatment ** 32 / 99 ( 32 . 3 % ) 11 / 92 ( 12 . 0 % ) 52 / 103 ( 50 . 5 % ) 16 / 103 ( 15 . 5 % ) Mycological Cure *** 49 / 99 ( 49 . 5 % ) 18 / 92 ( 19 . 6 % ) 71 / 103 ( 68 . 9 % ) 20 / 103 ( 19 . 4 % ) • * Complete Cure – Patients who had complete clearing of signs and symptoms and Mycological Cure .
** Effective Treatment – Patients who had minimal residual signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis and Mycological Cure .
*** Mycological Cure – Patients who had both negative microscopic KOH preparation and negative fungal culture .
• In clinical trials , complete cure in ERTACZO cream , 2 % - treated subjects was achieved in 32 of 160 ( 20 % ) subjects with Trichophyton rubrum , in 7 of 28 ( 25 % ) subjects with Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and in 1 of 13 ( 15 % ) subjects with Epidermophyton floccosum .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ERTACZO cream , 2 % , is white in color and supplied in tubes in the following size : 60 - gram tube NDC 0187 - 5115 - 60 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Instruct the patient of the following : Administration Instructions • • ERTACZO cream , 2 % is for topical use only .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes , mouth , vagina , and other mucous membranes .
• • Dry the affected area ( s ) thoroughly before application , if using ERTACZO cream , 2 % after bathing .
• • Wash hands after use .
• • Use the medication for the full treatment time recommended by the physician , even though symptoms may have improved .
• • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings unless otherwise directed by the physician [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions • • Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation , redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 ERTACZO is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9378102 Patient Package Insert PATIENT INFORMATION ERTACZO ® ( er - tack - zo ) ( sertaconazole nitrate ) cream Important information : ERTACZO cream is for use on skin only .
Do not use ERTACZO cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is ERTACZO cream ?
ERTACZO cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat athlete ’ s foot that is between the toes ( interdigital tinea pedis ) in adults and children 12 years of age and older with normal immune systems .
It is not known if ERTACZO cream is safe and effective in children younger than 12 years of age .
Before using ERTACZO cream , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have any allergies • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ERTACZO cream will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ERTACZO cream passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you use ERTACZO cream .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicinesyou take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use ERTACZO cream ?
• • Use ERTACZO cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Use ERTACZO cream for the full treatment time , even if your symptoms improve .
• • If you take a bath or shower , dry the affected skin areas well before you apply ERTACZO cream .
• • Apply ERTACZO cream 2 times a day for 4 weeks to the affected skin areas between your toes and to the healthy skin around the affected areas .
• • Wash your hands after you apply ERTACZO cream .
• • Do not cover the treated skin areas with bandages unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
What are the possible side effects of ERTACZO cream ?
The most common side effects of ERTACZO cream include : redness , itching , dry skin , burning , blistering , swelling , drainage , and skin tenderness at the treated skin areas .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of these skin reactions .
These are not all the possible side effects of ERTACZO cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ERTACZO cream ?
• • Store ERTACZO cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep ERTACZO cream and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ERTACZO cream Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ERTACZO cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ERTACZO cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ERTACZO cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ERTACZO cream ?
Active ingredient : sertaconazole nitrate Inactive ingredients : ethylene glycol , glyceryl isostearate , glycolized saturated glycerides , light mineral oil , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol palmitostearate , polyoxyethylened saturated glycerides , purified water , and sorbic acid Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 ERTACZO is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9378102 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 12 / 2020 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 g Carton NDC 0187 - 5115 - 60 ERTACZO ® ( sertaconazole nitrate ) cream , 2 % Rx only For Topical Use Only - Not for Ophthalmic , Oral , or Intravaginal Use Net Wt .
60 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
