Active ingredients DL - Camphor 34 . 10 mg L - Menthol 90 . 90 mg Mentha Oil 45 . 46 mg Methyl Salicylate 90 . 90 mg Zinc Oxide 431 . 82 mg Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple backache • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • If you are allergic to aspirin or salicylates • With a heating pad • With , or at the same time as other external analgesic products Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to any ingredients in this product .
When using this product • Do not use other than directed • Avoid contact with eyes , mucous membranes , and rashes Stop use and ask a doctor if • Rash , itching , or excessive skin irritation develops • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for longer than 7 days • Symptoms clear up and reoccur within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Caution This product contains natural rubber latex which may cause allergic reactions .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • Clean and dry affected area • Remove patch from film .
• Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily for 7 days .
• Remove patch from skin after at most 8 hours application .
Children under 12 years of age : • Consult a doctor .
Other information • avoid storing product in direct sunlight • protect from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients Benzyl Nicothinamide , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Calcium Carbonate , Glyceryl Rosinate , Natural Rubber , Polyisobutylene , Polybutene , Quintone , Vanillyl Nonylamide , YS Resin .
FDA NDC No . : 55264 - 021 - 06 Distributed by : SINSIN PHARM AMERICA Brea , CA 92821 www . sinsinpas . us Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
