DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
The steroids in this class include triamcinolone acetonide .
Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP contains Triamcinolone Acetonide [ Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis - ( oxy ) ] - , ( 11β , 16α ) - ] , with the empirical formula C 24 H 31 FO 6 and molecular weight 434 . 50 .
CAS 76 - 25 - 5 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 025 % contains : 0 . 25 mg of Triamcinolone Acetonide per gram in a base containing Emulsifying Wax , Cetyl Alcohol , Isopropyl Palmitate , Sorbitol Solution , Glycerin , Lactic Acid , Benzyl Alcohol and Purified Water .
Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains : 1 mg of Triamcinolone Acetonide per gram in a base containing Emulsifying Wax , Cetyl Alcohol , Isopropyl Palmitate , Sorbitol Solution , Glycerin , Lactic Acid , Benzyl Alcohol and Purified Water .
Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 5 % contains : 5 mg of Triamcinolone Acetonide per gram in a base containing Emulsifying Wax , Cetyl Alcohol , Isopropyl Palmitate , Sorbitol Solution , Glycerin , Lactic Acid , Benzyl Alcohol and Purified Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Triamcinolone cream is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients . Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings . Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of any potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests , and for impairment of thermal homeostasis .
If HPA axis suppression or elevation of the body temperature occurs , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , substitute a less potent steroid , or use a sequential approach when utilizing the occlusive technique . Recovery of HPA axis function and thermal homeostasis are generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Occasionally , a patient may develop a sensitivity reaction to a particular occlusive dressing material or adhesive and a substitute material may be necessary . Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted . In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled . These preparations are not for ophthalmic use .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for dermatologic use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
LABORATORY TESTS A urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression .
CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids . Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema . Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Apply Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream 0 . 025 % to the affected area two to four times daily .
Rub in gently .
Apply the 0 . 1 % or the 0 . 5 % Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream , as appropriate , to the affected area two to three times daily .
Rub in gently .
Occlusive Dressing Technique Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or other recalcitrant conditions .
Gently rub a small amount of cream into the lesion until it disappears .
Reapply the preparation leaving a thin coating on the lesion , cover with pliable nonporous film , and seal the edges .
If needed , additional moisture may be provided by covering the lesion with a dampened clean cotton cloth before the nonporous film is applied or by briefly wetting the affected area with water immediately prior to applying the medication .
The frequency of changing dressings is best determined on an individual basis .
It may be convenient to apply triamcinolone acetonide cream under an occlusive dressing in the evening and to remove the dressing in the morning ( i . e . , 12 - hour occlusion ) .
When utilizing the 12 - hour occlusion regimen , additional cream should be applied , without occlusion , during the day .
Reapplication is essential at each dressing change .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP , 0 . 025 % 15 gram tubes NDC 68071 - 2464 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing . Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . Plainsboro , NJ 08536 Manufacturer : Macleods Pharmaceuticals LimitedAt Oxalis Labs PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
