WARNINGS Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels ( greater than or equal to 5 . 5 mEq / liter ) can occur with all potassium - sparing agents , including triamterene capsules .
Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment and diabetes ( even without evidence of renal impairment ) , and in the elderly or severely ill .
Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal , serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients receiving triamterene capsules , when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function .
DESCRIPTION Each capsule for oral use , with opaque red cap and body , contains Triamterene USP , 50 or 100 mg , and is imprinted with DYRENIUM , strength ( 50 mg or 100 mg ) and WPC 002 ( for the 50 - mg strength ) and WPC 003 ( for the 100 - mg strength ) .
Inactive ingredients consist of D & C Red No . 33 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Gelatin NF , Lactose NF , Magnesium Stearate NF , and Titanium Dioxide USP .
Triamterene is 2 , 4 , 7 - triamino - 6 - phenyl - pteridine : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular weight is 253 . 27 .
At 50 ° C , triamterene is slightly soluble in water .
It is soluble in dilute ammonia , dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide and dimethylformamide .
It is sparingly soluble in methanol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Triamterene has a unique mode of action ; it inhibits the reabsorption of sodium ions in exchange for potassium and hydrogen ions at that segment of the distal tubule under the control of adrenal mineralocorticoids ( especially aldosterone ) .
This activity is not directly related to aldosterone secretion or antagonism ; it is a result of a direct effect on the renal tubule .
The fraction of filtered sodium reaching this distal tubular exchange site is relatively small , and the amount which is exchanged depends on the level of mineralocorticoid activity .
Thus , the degree of natriuresis and diuresis produced by inhibition of the exchange mechanism is necessarily limited .
Increasing the amount of available sodium and the level of mineralocorticoid activity by the use of more proximally acting diuretics will increase the degree of diuresis and potassium conservation .
Triamterene occasionally causes increases in serum potassium which can result in hyperkalemia .
It does not produce alkalosis , because it does not cause excessive excretion of titratable acid and ammonium .
Triamterene has been shown to cross the placental barrier and appear in the cord blood of animals .
Pharmacokinetics Onset of action is 2 to 4 hours after ingestion .
In normal volunteers the mean peak serum levels were 30 ng / mL at 3 hours .
The average percent of drug recovered in the urine ( 0 to 48 hours ) was 21 % .
Triamterene is primarily metabolized to the sulfate conjugate of hydroxytriamterene .
Both the plasma and urine levels of this metabolite greatly exceed triamterene levels .
Triamterene is rapidly absorbed , with somewhat less than 50 % of the oral dose reaching the urine .
Most patients will respond to triamterene capsules during the first day of treatment .
Maximum therapeutic effect , however , may not be seen for several days .
Duration of diuresis depends on several factors , especially renal function , but it generally tapers off 7 to 9 hours after administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Triamterene capsules are indicated in the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure , cirrhosis of the liver and the nephrotic syndrome ; steroid - induced edema , idiopathic edema and edema due to secondary hyperaldosteronism .
Triamterene capsules may be used alone or with other diuretics , either for its added diuretic effect or its potassium - sparing potential .
It also promotes increased diuresis when patients prove resistant or only partially responsive to thiazides or other diuretics because of secondary hyperaldosteronism .
Usage in Pregnancy .
The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Diuretics are indicated in pregnancy ( however , see PRECAUTIONS below ) when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria .
Severe or progressive kidney disease or dysfunction , with the possible exception of nephrosis .
Severe hepatic disease .
Hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components .
Triamterene capsules should not be used in patients with pre - existing elevated serum potassium , as is sometimes seen in patients with impaired renal function or azotemia , or in patients who develop hyperkalemia while on the drug .
Patients should not be placed on dietary potassium supplements , potassium salts or potassium - containing salt substitutes in conjunction with triamterene capsules .
Triamterene capsules should not be given to patients receiving other potassium - sparing agents , such as spironolactone , amiloride hydrochloride , or other formulations containing triamterene .
Two deaths have been reported in patients receiving concomitant spironolactone and triamterene capsules or Dyazide ® .
Although dosage recommendations were exceeded in one case and in the other serum electrolytes were not properly monitored , these two drugs should not be given concomitantly .
WARNINGS Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels ( greater than or equal to 5 . 5 mEq / liter ) can occur with all potassium - sparing agents , including triamterene capsules .
Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment and diabetes ( even without evidence of renal impairment ) , and in the elderly or severely ill .
Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal , serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients receiving triamterene capsules , when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function .
There have been isolated reports of hypersensitivity reactions ; therefore , patients should be observed regularly for the possible occurrence of blood dyscrasias , liver damage or other idiosyncratic reactions .
Periodic BUN and serum potassium determinations should be made to check kidney function , especially in patients with suspected or confirmed renal insufficiency .
It is particularly important to make serum potassium determinations in elderly or diabetic patients receiving the drug ; these patients should be observed carefully for possible serum potassium increases .
If hyperkalemia is present or suspected , an electrocardiogram should be obtained .
If the ECG shows no widening of the QRS or arrhythmia in the presence of hyperkalemia , it is usually sufficient to discontinue triamterene capsules and any potassium supplementation , and substitute a thiazide alone .
Sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be administered to enhance the excretion of excess potassium .
The presence of a widened QRS complex or arrhythmia in association with hyperkalemia requires prompt additional therapy .
For tachyarrhythmia , infuse 44 mEq of sodium bicarbonate or 10 mL of 10 % calcium gluconate or calcium chloride over several minutes .
For asystole , bradycardia or A - V block transvenous pacing is also recommended .
The effect of calcium and sodium bicarbonate is transient and repeated administration may be required .
When indicated by the clinical situation , excess K + may be removed by dialysis or oral or rectal administration of Sodium polystyrene sulfonate .
Infusion of glucose and insulin has also been used to treat hyperkalemia .
PRECAUTIONS General Triamterene capsules tend to conserve potassium rather than to promote the excretion as do many diuretics and , occasionally , can cause increases in serum potassium which , in some instances , can result in hyperkalemia .
In rare instances , hyperkalemia has been associated with cardiac irregularities .
Electrolyte imbalance often encountered in such diseases as congestive heart failure , renal disease or cirrhosis may be aggravated or caused independently by any effective diuretic agent including triamterene capsules .
The use of full doses of a diuretic when salt intake is restricted can result in a low - salt syndrome .
Triamterene can cause mild nitrogen retention , which is reversible upon withdrawal of the drug , and is seldom observed with intermittent ( every - other - day ) therapy .
Triamterene may cause a decreasing alkali reserve , with the possibility of metabolic acidosis .
By the very nature of their illness , cirrhotics with splenomegaly sometimes have marked variations in their blood .
Since triamterene is a weak folic acid antagonist , it may contribute to the appearance of megaloblastosis in cases where folic acid stores have been depleted .
Therefore , periodic blood studies in these patients are recommended .
They should also be observed for exacerbations of underlying liver disease .
Triamterene has elevated uric acid , especially in persons predisposed to gouty arthritis .
Triamterene has been reported in renal stones in association with other calculus components .
Triamterene capsules should be used with caution in patients with histories of renal stones .
Information for Patients To help avoid stomach upset , it is recommended that the drug be taken after meals .
If a single daily dose is prescribed , it may be preferable to take it in the morning to minimize the effect of increased frequency of urination on nighttime sleep .
If a dose is missed , the patient should not take more than the prescribed dose at the next dosing interval .
Laboratory Tests Hyperkalemia will rarely occur in patients with adequate urinary output , but it is a possibility if large doses are used for considerable periods of time .
If hyperkalemia is observed , triamterene capsules should be withdrawn .
The normal adult range of serum potassium is 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq per liter , with 4 . 5 mEq often being used for a reference point .
Potassium levels persistently above 6 mEq per liter require careful observation and treatment .
Normal potassium levels tend to be higher in neonates ( 7 . 7 mEq per liter ) than in adults .
Serum potassium levels do not necessarily indicate true body potassium concentration .
A rise in plasma pH may cause a decrease in plasma potassium concentration and an increase in the intracellular potassium concentration .
Because triamterene capsules conserve potassium , it has been theorized that in patients who have received intensive therapy or been given the drug for prolonged periods , a rebound kaliuresis could occur upon abrupt withdrawal .
In such patients , withdrawal of triamterene capsules should be gradual .
Drug Interactions Caution should be used when lithium and diuretics are used concomitantly because diuretic - induced sodium loss may reduce the renal clearance of lithium and increase serum lithium levels with risk of lithium toxicity .
Patients receiving such combined therapy should have serum lithium levels monitored closely and the lithium dosage adjusted if necessary .
A possible interaction resulting in acute renal failure has been reported in a few subjects when indomethacin , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent , was given with triamterene .
Caution is advised in administering nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents with triamterene .
The effects of the following drugs may be potentiated when given together with triamterene : antihypertensive medication , other diuretics , preanesthetic and anesthetic agents , skeletal muscle relaxants ( nondepolarizing ) .
Potassium - sparing agents should be used with caution in conjunction with angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors due to an increased risk of hyperkalemia .
The following agents , given together with triamterene , may promote serum potassium accumulation and possibly result in hyperkalemia because of the potassium - sparing nature of triamterene , especially in patients with renal insufficiency : blood from blood bank ( may contain up to 30 mEq of potassium per liter of plasma or up to 65 mEq per liter of whole blood when stored for more than 10 days ) ; low - salt milk ( may contain up to 60 mEq of potassium per liter ) ; potassium - containing medications ( such as parenteral penicillin G potassium ) ; salt substitutes ( most contain substantial amounts of potassium ) .
Triamterene capsules may raise blood glucose levels ; for adult - onset diabetes , dosage adjustments of hypoglycemic agents may be necessary during and / or after therapy ; concurrent use with chlorpropamide may increase the risk of severe hyponatremia .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Triamterene and quinidine have similar fluorescence spectra ; thus , triamterene will interfere with the fluorescent measurement of quinidine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : In studies conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program , groups of rats were fed diets containing 0 , 150 , 300 or 600 ppm of triamterene , and groups of mice were fed diets containing 0 , 100 , 200 or 400 ppm triamterene .
Male and female rats exposed to the highest tested concentration received triamterene at about 25 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Male and female mice exposed to the highest tested concentration received triamterene at about 45 and 60 mg / kg / day , respectively .
There was an increased incidence of hepatocellular neoplasia ( primarily adenomas ) in male and female mice at the highest dosage level .
These doses represent 7 . 5 X and 10 X the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) of 300 mg / kg / day ( or 6 mg / kg / day based on a 50 kg patient ) for male and female mice , respectively , when based on body weight and 0 . 7 X and 0 . 9 X the MRHD when based on body - surface area .
Although hepatocellular neoplasia ( exclusively adenomas ) in the rat study was limited to triamterene - exposed males , incidence was not dose dependent and there was no statistically significant difference from control incidence at any dose level .
Mutagenesis : Triamterene was not mutagenic in bacteria ( Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 or TA1537 ) with or without metabolic activation .
It did not induce chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells in vitro with or without metabolic activation , but it did induce sister chromatid exchanges in CHO cells in vitro with and without metabolic activation .
Impairment of Fertility : Studies of the effects of triamterene on animal reproductive function have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses as high as 20 times the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) on the basis of body weight , and 6 times the MRHD on the basis of body - surface area , without evidence of harm to the fetus due to triamterene .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Triamterene has been shown to cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
The use of triamterene in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus .
These possible hazards include adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult .
Nursing Mothers : Triamterene has not been studied in nursing mothers .
Triamterene appears in animal milk and is likely present in human milk .
If use of the drug product is deemed essential , the patient should stop nursing .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects are listed in decreasing order of frequency ; however , the most serious adverse effects are listed first , regardless of frequency .
All adverse effects occur rarely ( that is , 1 in 1000 , or less ) .
Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , rash , photosensitivity .
Metabolic : hyperkalemia , hypokalemia .
Renal : azotemia , elevated BUN and creatinine , renal stones , acute interstitial nephritis ( rare ) , acute renal failure ( one case of irreversible renal failure has been reported ) .
Gastrointestinal : jaundice and / or liver enzyme abnormalities , nausea and vomiting , diarrhea .
Hematologic : thrombocytopenia , megaloblastic anemia .
Central Nervous System : weakness , fatigue , dizziness , headache , dry mouth .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , it can be theorized that electrolyte imbalance would be the major concern , with particular attention to possible hyperkalemia .
Other symptoms that might be seen would be nausea and vomiting , other G . I . disturbances and weakness .
It is conceivable that some hypotension could occur .
As with an overdose of any drug , immediate evacuation of the stomach should be induced through emesis and gastric lavage .
Careful evaluation of the electrolyte pattern and fluid balance should be made .
There is no specific antidote .
Reversible acute renal failure following ingestion of 50 tablets of a product containing a combination of 50 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide has been reported .
The oral LD50 in mice is 380 mg / kg .
The amount of drug in a single dose ordinarily associated with symptoms of overdose or likely to be life - threatening is not known .
Although triamterene is 67 % protein bound , there may be some benefit to dialysis in cases of overdosage .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage Dosage should be titrated to the needs of the individual patient .
When used alone , the usual starting dose is 100 mg twice daily after meals .
When combined with another diuretic or antihypertensive agent , the total daily dosage of each agent should usually be lowered initially and then adjusted to the patient ’ s needs .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 300 mg .
Please refer to PRECAUTIONS − General .
When triamterene capsules are added to other diuretic therapy or when patients are switched to triamterene capsules from other diuretics , all potassium supplementation should be discontinued .
HOW SUPPLIED Capsules : 50 mg in bottles of 100 , and 100 mg in bottles of 100 .
STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light resistant container .
50 mg 100 s : NDC 66993 - 831 - 02 100 mg 100 s : NDC 66993 - 832 - 02 Manufactured for Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA Made in Canada Rev . 09 / 19 LF - 118202 - 01 N0830B PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - TRIAMTERENE 50 MG [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prasco NDC 66993 - 832 - 02 100 Capsules Triamterene Capsules 50 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - TRIAMTERENE 100 MG [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prasco NDC 66993 - 832 - 02 100 Capsules Triamterene Capsules 100 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
