DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each pad of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are coated with a cleanser - based formulation .
Each gram of this cleanser - based formulation contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 40 mg of Sulfur .
The cleanser base consists of : purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , green tea extract , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , glycerol stearate and PEG 100 stearate methyl paraben , propyl paraben , butylated hydroxytoluene , aloe vera gel , sodium thiosulfate , disodium EDTA , magnesium aluminum silicate , xanthan gum , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is not known , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or ony other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetaminde may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS : General - If irritaition develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desqamation withour irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulfaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
PREGNANCY : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads .
It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Wash affected area ( s ) with cleansing pad once or twice dialy , or as directed by your physician .
Wet area ( s ) with water .
Wet pad with a little water and work into a full lather .
Cleanse area ( s ) with pad for 10 - 20 seconds , avoiding eyes .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Discard pad .
Do not flush .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads are available in boxes of 60 cloths ( 3 . 7 g ) , ( NDC 42192 - 113 - 60 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 15 ° - 25 ° ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , incipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC 9005 Westside Parkway Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Sodum Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % Cleansing Pads In a vehicle containing Green Tea and Aloe Rx Only 60 cleansing pads Net wegith 3 . 7 g each Acella pharmaceuticals Directions : Wash affected areas with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % once or twice daily or as direted by your physician .
1 .
Wet affected areas with water 2 .
Wet Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % cleansing pad with water and work into a full lather .
3 .
Cleanse face with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % for 10 - 20 seconds , avoiding eyes 4 .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry 5 .
Discard pad .
Do not flush .
Warnings for external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Indications : for the typical control of acne vulgaris and seborrheic dermatitis .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Contraindications : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % cleansing pads are contraindicated for use in patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or anyother component of the preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % cleansing pads are not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
Contents : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 4 % .
Other Ingredients : purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , disodium oleamido MEA sulfosuccinate , green tea extract , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , glycerol stearate and PEG 100 stearate methyl paraben , propyl paraben , butylated hydroxytoluene , aloe vera gel , sodium thiosufate , disodium EDTA , magnesium aluminum siliate , xanthan gum , sodium methyl cocoyl l - taurate , white petrolatum Acella Pharmaceuticals Store at 15 degrees to 25 degrees C or 59 - 77 degrees F ) All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE .
This is not an Orange Book product .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Please see package insert for more information .
Manufactured For : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC 9005 Westside Parkway Alpharetta , GA 30009 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
