Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antigingivitis , antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings For this product Do not use If you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 / 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out ; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol 21 . 6 % , sorbitol solution , flavor , poloxamer 407 , benzoic acid , sodium saccharin , sodium benzoate , FD & C green no . 3 Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Cool Mint Listerine Antiseptic Mouthwash TEP SEALED WITH PRINTED NECK BAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION Adverse Reactions Chosen with Care !
We only offer products we love - and we hope you ' ll love them too .
If not , we ' ll give yiu your money back .
The Wegmans Family Distributed By : Wegmans Food Markets , Inc .
Rochester , NY 14603 Question or comments about this product ?
1 - 800 - Wegmans ( 934 - 62670 Eex .
5920 9 am - 4 pm ESt weekdays Vist us at Wegmans . com Wegmans QUALITY ASSURED Blue Mint Antiseptic Oral Rinse Kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque & the gum infection Gingivitis ADA Accepted American Dental Association • helps reduce plaque • helps reduce gingivitis SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION Compare to the Active Ingredients of Listerine 50 . 7 FL OZ - 1 . 5 L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
