DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic oral antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each soft gelatin capsule , for oral administration , contains 100 mg or 200 mg of benzonatate USP .
Benzonatate Capsules , USP also contain the following inactive ingredients : D and C Yellow No . 10 , gelatin , glycerin , purified water , methylparaben , propylparaben and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
WARNINGS Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
Isolated instances of bizarre behavior , including mental confusion and visual hallucinations , have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate in combination with other prescribed drugs .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - aminobenzoic acid class ( e . g . procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for patients : Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
Therefore , the capsules should be swallowed without chewing .
Usage in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
It is also not known whether benzonatate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk caution should be exercised when benzonatate is administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility : Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential Adverse Reactions to benzonatate may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation ; nausea ; GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Rare instances of deliberate or accidental overdose have resulted in death .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose may result in death .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms : If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Treatment : Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag reflexes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturate given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age : Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsule t . i . d . as required .
If necessary , up to 600 mg daily may be given .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzonatate Capsules USP , 100 mg : Yellow soft gelatin capsules , imprinted “ ASC ” on one side and “ 105 ” on the other side , available in bottles of 15 ( NDC 67296 - 0581 - 1 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) [ See USP ] .
API - 01 , 5 / 07 Mfd by Intergel Division of IVC Industries , Inc .
Irvington , NJ 07111 copy of label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
