Drug Facts Active ingredient Terbinafine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • cures most jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • relieves itching , burning , cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or gets worse Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube • wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying • for athlete ' s foot wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• between the toes only : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • on the bottom or sides of the foot : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor • for jock itch and ringworm : apply once a day ( morning or night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • wash hands after each use • children under 12 years : ask a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 week between the toes [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 weeks on the bottom or sides of the foot [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE SEAL ON THE TUBE IS PUNCTURED OR NOT VISIBLE .
• store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Tube Carton meijer ® NDC 41250 - 080 - 02 Compare to Lamisil AT ® active ingredient * antifungal cream Terbinafine Hydrochloride Cream | 1 % | Antifungal Relieves Itching NET WT 1 oz ( 30 g ) Full Prescription Strength [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
