• Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 8 / 2022 • Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 8 / 2022 • Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) 8 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NUBEQA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with : • • non - metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer ( nmCRPC ) • • metastatic hormone - sensitive prostate cancer ( mHSPC ) in combination with docetaxel .
NUBEQA is an androgen receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with : • • non - metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer ( nmCRPC ) .
( 1 ) • • metastatic hormone - sensitive prostate cancer ( mHSPC ) in combination with docetaxel .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage : NUBEQA 600 mg , ( two 300 mg tablets ) administered orally twice daily .
Swallow tablets whole .
Take NUBEQA with food .
( 2 . 1 ) For patients with mHSPC treated with NUBEQA in combination with docetaxel , administer the first cycle of docetaxel within 6 weeks after the start of NUBEQA treatment .
( 2 . 1 ) Patients should also receive a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or have had bilateral orchiectomy .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Click or tap here to enter text .
nmCRPC and mHSPC The recommended dose of NUBEQA is 600 mg ( two 300 mg tablets ) taken orally , twice daily , with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs .
Patients receiving NUBEQA should also receive a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or have had a bilateral orchiectomy .
Advise patients to swallow tablets whole with food , to take any missed dose as soon as they remember prior to the next scheduled dose , and not to take two doses together to make up for a missed dose .
mHSPC For patients with mHSPC treated with NUBEQA in combination with docetaxel , administer the first of 6 cycles of docetaxel within 6 weeks after the start of NUBEQA treatment .
Refer to docetaxel prescribing information for additional dosing information , including dosage modifications .
Treatment with NUBEQA may be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity , even if a cycle of docetaxel is delayed , interrupted , or discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Modification If a patient experiences a greater than or equal to Grade 3 or an intolerable adverse reaction , withhold NUBEQA or reduce dosage to 300 mg twice daily until symptoms improve .
NUBEQA may be resumed at a dose of 600 mg twice daily , when adverse reaction returns to baseline [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ] .
Dosage reduction below 300 mg twice daily is not recommended .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) not receiving hemodialysis , the recommended dose of NUBEQA is 300 mg twice daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Moderate Hepatic Impairment For patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , the recommended dose of NUBEQA is 300 mg twice daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets ( 300 mg ) : white to off - white oval film - coated tablets marked with “ 300 ” on one side and “ Bayer ” on the other .
Tablets : 300 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Ischemic Heart Disease : Optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of coronary artery disease .
Discontinue NUBEQA for Grade 3 - 4 events .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Seizure : Consider discontinuation of NUBEQA in patients who develop a seizure during treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : NUBEQA can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 3 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Ischemic Heart Disease Ischemic heart disease , including fatal cases , occurred in patients receiving NUBEQA .
In a randomized study of patients with nmCRPC ( ARAMIS ) , ischemic heart disease occurred in 3 . 2 % of patients receiving NUBEQA and 2 . 5 % receiving placebo , including Grade 3 - 4 events in 1 . 7 % and 0 . 4 % , respectively .
Ischemic events led to death in 0 . 3 % of patients receiving NUBEQA and 0 . 2 % receiving placebo .
In a randomized study of patients with mHSPC ( ARASENS ) , ischemic heart disease occurred in 2 . 9 % of patients receiving NUBEQA with docetaxel and 2 % receiving placebo with docetaxel , including Grade 3 - 4 events in 1 . 3 % and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
Ischemic events led to death in 0 . 3 % of patients receiving NUBEQA with docetaxel and 0 % receiving placebo with docetaxel .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of ischemic heart disease .
Optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors , such as hypertension , diabetes , or dyslipidemia .
Discontinue NUBEQA for Grade 3 - 4 ischemic heart disease .
5 . 2 Seizure Seizure occurred in patients receiving NUBEQA .
In ARAMIS , Grade 1 - 2 seizure occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients receiving NUBEQA and 0 . 2 % receiving placebo .
Seizure occurred 261 and 456 days after initiation of NUBEQA .
In ARASENS , seizure occurred in 0 . 6 % of patients receiving NUBEQA with docetaxel , including one Grade 3 event , and 0 . 2 % receiving placebo with docetaxel .
Seizure occurred 38 to 340 days after initiation of NUBEQA .
It is unknown whether anti - epileptic medications will prevent seizures with NUBEQA .
Advise patients of the risk of developing a seizure while receiving NUBEQA and of engaging in any activity where sudden loss of consciousness could cause harm to themselves or others .
Consider discontinuation of NUBEQA in patients who develop a seizure during treatment .
5 . 3 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity The safety and efficacy of NUBEQA have not been established in females .
Based on its mechanism of action , NUBEQA can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy when administered to a pregnant female [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of NUBEQA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Click or tap here to enter text .
nmCRPC : The most common adverse reactions including laboratory test abnormalities ( > 2 % with a ≥ 2 % increase over placebo ) , are AST increased , neutrophil count decreased , fatigue , bilirubin increased , pain in extremity , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) mHSPC : The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % with a ≥ 2 % increase over placebo with docetaxel ) are constipation , decreased appetite , rash , hemorrhage , weight increased , and hypertension .
The most common laboratory test abnormalities ( ≥ 30 % ) are anemia , hyperglycemia , lymphocyte count decreased , neutrophil count decreased , AST increased , ALT increased , and hypocalcemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Non - Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer The safety of NUBEQA was evaluated in ARAMIS , a randomized ( 2 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center clinical study , that enrolled patients who had non - metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer ( nmCRPC ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients received either NUBEQA at a dose of 600 mg , or a placebo , twice a day .
All patients in the ARAMIS study received a concomitant gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog or had a bilateral orchiectomy .
Among patients who received NUBEQA , the median duration of exposure was 14 . 8 months ( range : 0 to 44 . 3 months ) .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 25 % of patients receiving NUBEQA and in 20 % of patients receiving placebo .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 1 % of patients who received NUBEQA included urinary retention , pneumonia and hematuria .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 9 % of patients receiving NUBEQA and 3 . 2 % of patients receiving placebo .
Fatal adverse reactions in patients who received NUBEQA included death ( 0 . 4 % ) , cardiac failure ( 0 . 3 % ) , cardiac arrest ( 0 . 2 % ) , general physical health deterioration ( 0 . 2 % ) , and pulmonary embolism ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of NUBEQA due to adverse reactions occurred in 9 % of patients receiving NUBEQA .
The most common adverse reactions requiring permanent discontinuation in patients who received NUBEQA included cardiac failure ( 0 . 4 % ) , and death ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Dosage interruptions due to adverse reactions occurred in 13 % of patients treated with NUBEQA .
The most common adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption in patients who received NUBEQA included hypertension ( 0 . 6 % ) , diarrhea ( 0 . 5 % ) , and pneumonia ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Dosage reductions due to adverse reactions occurred in 6 % of patients treated with NUBEQA .
The most common adverse reactions requiring dosage reduction in patients treated with NUBEQA included fatigue ( 0 . 7 % ) , hypertension ( 0 . 3 % ) , and nausea ( 0 . 3 % ) .
The most common ( > 2 % with a ≥ 2 % increase compared to placebo ) adverse reactions , including laboratory test abnormalities , were AST increased , neutrophil count decreased , fatigue , bilirubin increased , pain in extremity , and rash .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions in ARAMIS .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions ( > 2 % with a ≥ 2 % increase compared to placebo ) in Patients with Non - Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer in ARAMISAdverse Reaction NUBEQA ( n = 954 ) Placebo ( n = 554 ) All Grades % Grades 3 or 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 or 4 % Fatigue [ 1 ] 16 0 . 6 11 1 . 1 Pain in extremity 6 0 3 0 . 2 Rash [ 2 ] 4 0 . 1 1 . 4 0 [ 1 ] Includes fatigue and asthenia [ 2 ] Includes rash , eczema , rash maculo - papular , dermatitis , erythema multiforme , rash macular , rash papular , rash pustular , skin exfoliation Clinically relevant adverse reactions occurring in 2 % or more of patients treated with NUBEQA included ischemic heart disease ( 4 % ) and heart failure ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Table 2 summarizes the laboratory test abnormalities in ARAMIS .
Table 2 : Laboratory Test Abnormalities in ARAMISLaboratory Abnormality NUBEQA ( N = 954 ) [ 1 ] Placebo ( N = 554 ) null All Grades [ 2 ] % Grade 3 - 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % AST increased 23 0 . 5 14 0 . 2 Neutrophil count decreased 20 4 9 0 . 6 Bilirubin increased 16 0 . 1 7 0 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
[ 2 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 470 to 648 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
Metastatic Hormone - Sensitive Prostate Cancer The safety of NUBEQA , in combination with docetaxel , was evaluated in ARASENS , a randomized ( 1 : 1 ) , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - center clinical study , that enrolled patients who had mHSPC [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Patients were to receive either NUBEQA at a dose of 600 mg , or a placebo , twice a day in combination with docetaxel at a dose of 75 mg / m2 every 21 days for 6 cycles .
All patients in the ARASENS study received a concomitant gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog or had a bilateral orchiectomy .
Patients with a medical history of seizure were allowed to enter the study .
Among patients who received NUBEQA , the median duration of exposure was 41 months ( range : 0 . 1 to 56 . 5 months ) vs . 16 . 7 months ( range 0 . 3 to 55 . 8 ) with placebo .
Eighty - eight percent and 86 % of patients received the 6 planned cycles of docetaxel , in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm and placebo with docetaxel arm , respectively .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 45 % of patients receiving NUBEQA with docetaxel and in 42 % of patients receiving placebo with docetaxel , respectively .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 2 % of patients who received NUBEQA with docetaxel included febrile neutropenia ( 6 % ) , neutrophil count decreased ( 2 . 8 % ) , musculoskeletal pain ( 2 . 6 % ) and pneumonia ( 2 . 6 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 4 % of patients receiving NUBEQA with docetaxel and 4 % of patients receiving placebo with docetaxel .
Fatal adverse reactions in patients who received NUBEQA included COVID - 19 / COVID - 19 pneumonia ( 0 . 8 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 0 . 3 % ) , and sudden death ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of NUBEQA due to adverse reactions occurred in 14 % of patients treated in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm .
The most common adverse reactions which resulted in permanent discontinuation of NUBEQA were rash ( 1 . 1 % ) , musculoskeletal pain ( 0 . 9 % ) , and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) increased ( 0 . 9 % ) .
Dosage interruptions of NUBEQA due to adverse reactions occurred in 23 % of patients treated in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm .
The most common ( > 2 % ) adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption of NUBEQA were alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) increased ( 3 . 2 % ) , AST increased ( 3 . 1 % ) and febrile neutropenia ( 2 . 1 % ) .
Dosage reductions of NUBEQA due to adverse reactions occurred in 9 % of patients treated in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm .
The most common ( > 2 % ) adverse reactions requiring dosage reduction of NUBEQA were ALT increased ( 2 . 8 % ) and AST increased ( 2 . 5 % ) .
The most common ( > 10 % with a ≥ 2 % increase over placebo with docetaxel ) adverse reactions are constipation , decreased appetite , rash , hemorrhage , weight increased , and hypertension .
The most common laboratory test abnormalities ( ≥ 30 % ) are anemia , hyperglycemia , lymphocyte count decreased , neutrophil count decreased , AST increased , ALT increased , and hypocalcemia .
Table 3 summarizes the adverse reactions in ARASENS .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % with a ≥ 2 % increase compared to placebo with docetaxel ) in ARASENSAdverse Reaction NUBEQA with docetaxel ( n = 652 ) Placebo with docetaxel ( n = 650 ) All Grades % Grades 3 or 4 % All Grades % Grades 3 or 4 % • Constipation 23 0 . 3 20 0 . 3 • Decreased Appetite 19 0 . 2 13 0 . 6 • Rash [ 1 ] 19 1 . 8 15 0 . 2 • Hemorrhage [ 2 ] 18 1 . 4 13 1 . 4 • Weight Increased 18 2 . 1 16 1 . 2 • Hypertension [ 3 ] 14 7 9 3 . 7 [ 1 ] Rash includes rash , rash maculo - papular , palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , eczema , dermatitis , skin exfoliation , dermatitis acneiform , drug eruption , rash pruritic , rash erythematous , erythema multiforme , rash macular , dermatitis exfoliative generalized , penile rash , dyshidrotic eczema , rash papular , dermatitis bullous , rash follicular , rash pustular , rash vesicular , toxic skin eruption [ 2 ] Hemorrhage includes hematuria , epistaxis , anal hemorrhage , hemorrhoidal hemorrhage , rectal hemorrhage , upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hemoptysis , hemorrhage urinary tract , hemorrhagic stroke , subarachnoid hemorrhage , lower gastrointestinal hemorrhage , cystitis hemorrhagic , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hemorrhage subcutaneous , intra - abdominal hemorrhage , nail bed bleeding , subdural hemorrhage [ 3 ] Hypertension includes hypertension , blood pressure increased , hypertensive emergency and hypertensive crisis .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients who received NUBEQA with docetaxel included fractures ( 8 % ) , ischemic heart disease ( 2 . 9 % ) , seizures ( 0 . 6 % ) , and drug - induced liver injury ( 0 . 3 % ) .
Table 4 summarizes laboratory test abnormalities in the ARASENS study .
Table 4 : Laboratory Test Abnormalities ( ≥ 30 % ) in ARASENS Laboratory Abnormality NUBEQA with docetaxel ( N = 652 ) Placebo with docetaxel ( N = 650 ) All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % All Grades % Grade 3 - 4 % • Anemia 72 6 71 7 • Hyperglycemia 57 7 53 10 • Lymphocyte count decreased 52 12 49 13 • Neutrophil count decreased 49 33 44 31 • AST increased [ 1 ] 40 3 . 6 35 2 . 3 • ALT increased null 37 3 . 7 31 2 . 9 • Hypocalcemia 31 2 . 8 28 1 . 9 [ 1 ] ALT or AST increases to ≥ 5 x upper limit of normal ( ULN ) occurred in 5 . 3 % of patients who received NUBEQA with docetaxel .
ALT or AST increases to ≥ 20 x ULN occurred in 0 . 3 % of patients who received NUBEQA with docetaxel .
The median time to onset of any grade ALT or AST increases was 2 . 8 months ( range : 0 . 03 to 46 . 9 ) .
Clinically relevant laboratory test abnormalities in < 30 % of patients who received NUBEQA with docetaxel included blood bilirubin increased ( all grades 20 % , Grade 3 - 4 0 . 5 % ) compared to placebo with docetaxel ( all grades 10 % , grades 3 - 4 0 . 3 % ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Combined P - gp and Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Combined P - gp and Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Monitor patients more frequently for NUBEQA adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • • BCRP Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with drugs that are BCRP substrates where possible .
If used together , monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of the BCRP substrate drug .
( 7 . 2 ) .
• • OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 Substrates : Concomitant use of NUBEQA may increase the plasma concentrations of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 substrates .
If used together , monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of these drugs ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on NUBEQA Combined P - gp and Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducer Concomitant use of NUBEQA with a combined P - gp and strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreases darolutamide exposure which may decrease NUBEQA activity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid concomitant use of NUBEQA with combined P - gp and strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers .
Combined P - gp and Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant use of NUBEQA with a combined P - gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases darolutamide exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] which may increase the risk of NUBEQA adverse reactions .
Monitor patients more frequently for NUBEQA adverse reactions and modify NUBEQA dosage as needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effects of NUBEQA on Other Drugs Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) and Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides ( OATP ) 1B1 and 1B3 Substrates NUBEQA is an inhibitor of BCRP transporter .
Concomitant use of NUBEQA increases the AUC and Cmax of BCRP substrates [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may increase the risk of BCRP substrate - related toxicities .
Avoid concomitant use with drugs that are BCRP substrates where possible .
If used together , monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions , and consider dose reduction of the BCRP substrate drug .
NUBEQA is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters .
Concomitant use of NUBEQA may increase the plasma concentrations of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 substrates .
Monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions of these drugs and consider dose reduction while patients are taking NUBEQA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , Review the prescribing information of the BCRP , OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates when used concomitantly with NUBEQA .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Severe Renal Impairment ( not on hemodialysis ) : Recommended dose is 300 mg twice daily .
( 8 . 6 ) Moderate Hepatic Impairment : Recommended dose is 300 mg twice daily .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of NUBEQA have not been established in females .
Based on its mechanism of action , NUBEQA can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Animal embryo - fetal developmental toxicology studies were not conducted with darolutamide .
There are no human data on the use of NUBEQA in pregnant females .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The safety and efficacy of NUBEQA have not been established in females .
There are no data on the presence of darolutamide or its metabolites in human milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or the effect on milk production .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Males Based on the mechanism of action , advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of NUBEQA [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Males Based on animal studies , NUBEQA may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of NUBEQA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 954 patients who received NUBEQA in ARAMIS , 88 % of patients were 65 years and over , and 49 % were 75 years and over .
Of the 652 patients who received NUBEQA in ARASENS , 63 % of patients were 65 years and over , and 16 % were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between these patients and younger patients in both studies .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) who are not receiving hemodialysis have a higher exposure to NUBEQA and reduction of the dose is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dose reduction is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 - 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
The effect of end stage renal disease ( eGFR ≤ 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) on darolutamide pharmacokinetics is unknown .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) have a higher exposure to NUBEQA and reduction of the dose is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dose reduction is needed for patients with mild hepatic impairment .
The effect of severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) on darolutamide pharmacokinetics is unknown .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known specific antidote for darolutamide overdose .
The highest dose of NUBEQA studied clinically was 900 mg twice daily , equivalent to a total daily dose of 1800 mg .
No dose limiting toxicities were observed with this dose .
Considering the saturable absorption and the absence of evidence for acute toxicity , an intake of a higher than recommended dose of darolutamide is not expected to lead to systemic toxicity in patients with intact hepatic and renal function [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In the event of intake of a higher than recommended dose in patients with severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment , if there is suspicion of toxicity , interrupt NUBEQA treatment and undertake general supportive measures until clinical toxicity has been diminished or resolved .
If there is no suspicion of toxicity , NUBEQA treatment can be continued with the next dose as scheduled .
11 DESCRIPTION NUBEQA is an androgen receptor inhibitor .
The chemical name is N - { ( 2 S ) - 1 - [ 3 - ( 3 - chloro - 4 - cyanophenyl ) - 1 H - pyrazol - 1 - yl ] propan - 2 - yl } - 5 - ( 1 - hydroxyethyl ) - 1 H - pyrazole - 3 - carboxamide .
• The molecular weight is 398 . 85 and the molecular formula is C19H19Cl N6O2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Darolutamide is an optically active with a specific rotation value [ α ] 20 D = 72 . 2 o * mL / ( dm * g ) , white to greyish - or yellowish white crystalline powder , that is soluble in tetrahydrofuran , but practically insoluble in aqueous medium .
Darolutamide has a pKa of 11 . 75 .
NUBEQA ( darolutamide ) is supplied as film - coated tablets containing 300 mg of darolutamide for oral use .
The inactive ingredients of the tablet are : calcium hydrogen phosphate , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone K 30 , hypromellose 15 cP , macrogol 3350 , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Darolutamide is an androgen receptor ( AR ) inhibitor .
Darolutamide competitively inhibits androgen binding , AR nuclear translocation , and AR - mediated transcription .
A major metabolite , ketodarolutamide , exhibited similar in vitro activity to darolutamide .
In addition , darolutamide functioned as a progesterone receptor ( PR ) antagonist in vitro ( approximately 1 % activity compared to AR ) .
Darolutamide decreased prostate cancer cell proliferation in vitro and tumor volume in mouse xenograft models of prostate cancer .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics PSA reduction was observed in CRPC patients receiving darolutamide doses of 100 - 900 mg twice a day , reaching a plateau of PSA reduction at the 600 mg twice daily dose .
Twice daily dosing of 600 mg darolutamide in nmCRPC patients resulted in undetectable PSA levels in 24 . 2 % of patients at 12 months compared to 0 . 4 % of patients in the placebo arm .
Twice daily dosing of 600 mg darolutamide in combination with docetaxel in mHSPC patients resulted in undetectable PSA levels in 60 . 2 % of patients at 12 months compared to 26 . 1 % of patients in the placebo with docetaxel arm .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of darolutamide ( 600 mg twice daily ) on the QTc interval was evaluated in a subgroup of 500 patients in the ARAMIS study .
No large mean increase in QTc ( i . e . , > 20 ms ) was detected .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following administration of 600 mg twice daily , darolutamide mean ( % CV ) steady - state peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) is 4 . 79 mg / L ( 30 . 9 % ) and area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time 0 to 12 hours ( AUC12h ) is 52 . 82 h • µg / mL ( 33 . 9 % ) .
Steady - state is reached 2 – 5 days after repeated dosing with food , with an approximate 2 - fold accumulation .
The exposure ( Cmax and AUC12 ) of the darolutamide and the active metabolite ketodarolutamide increase in a nearly dose - proportional manner in the dose range of 100 to 700 mg ( 0 . 17 to 1 . 17 times the approved recommended dosage ) .
No further increase in darolutamide exposure was observed at 900 mg twice daily ( 1 . 5 times the approved recommended dosage ) .
Absorption Darolutamide Cmax is reached approximately 4 hours after administration of a single 600 mg oral dose .
The absolute bioavailability is approximately 30 % following oral administration of a NUBEQA tablet containing 300 mg darolutamide under fasted conditions .
Food Effect Bioavailability of darolutamide increased by 2 . 0 to 2 . 5 ‑ fold when administered with food .
A similar increase of exposure was observed for the active metabolite ketodarolutamide .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of darolutamide after intravenous administration is 119 L . Protein binding is 92 % for darolutamide and 99 . 8 % for the active metabolite , ketodarolutamide .
Serum albumin is the main binding protein for darolutamide and ketodarolutamide .
Elimination The effective half - life of darolutamide and ketodarolutamide is approximately 20 hours in patients .
The clearance ( % CV ) of darolutamide following intravenous administration is 116 mL / min ( 39 . 7 % ) .
Metabolism Darolutamide is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 , as well as by UGT1A9 and UGT1A1 .
Ketodarolutamide total exposure in plasma is 1 . 7 ‑ fold higher compared to darolutamide .
Excretion After a single radiolabeled dose as an oral solution , a total of 63 . 4 % of darolutamide ‑ related material is excreted in the urine ( approximately 7 % unchanged ) and 32 . 4 % ( approximately 30 % unchanged ) in the feces .
More than 95 % of the dose was recovered within 7 days after administration .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide were observed based on age ( 41 - 95 years ) , race ( White , Asian , Black or African American ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 – 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or mild hepatic impairment .
In non - cancer subjects with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 – 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) not receiving dialysis or with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , NUBEQA exposure increased by about 2 . 5 - and 1 . 9 - fold , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The effect of end - stage renal disease ( eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) on darolutamide pharmacokinetics has not been studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Combined P - gp and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant use of rifampicin ( a combined P - gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer ) decreased mean darolutamide AUC0 - 72 by 72 % and Cmax by 52 % .
The decrease of darolutamide exposure by moderate CYP3A4 inducers is expected to be in the range of 36 % – 58 % .
Combined P - gp and Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Itraconazole ( a strong combined CYP3A4 and P - gp inhibitor ) increased mean darolutamide AUC0 - 72 by 1 . 7 - and Cmax by 1 . 4 - fold .
CYP3A4 substrates Concomitant use of darolutamide decreased the mean AUC and Cmax of midazolam ( CYP3A4 substrate ) by 29 % and 32 % , respectively .
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of midazolam were observed when used concomitantly with darolutamide .
BCRP , OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 Substrates Concomitant use of darolutamide increased the mean AUC and Cmax of rosuvastatin ( BCRP , OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrate ) by approximately 5 - fold .
Docetaxel Administration of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel resulted in no clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel in mHSPC patients .
There were no clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide , when used in combination with docetaxel .
P - gp Substrates No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of dabigatran ( P - gp substrate ) were observed when used concomitantly with darolutamide .
In vitro , darolutamide did not inhibit the major CYP enzymes ( CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3A4 ) or transporters ( MRP2 , BSEP , OATs , OCTs , MATEs , OATP2B1 , and NTCP ) at clinically relevant concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of darolutamide have not been conducted .
Darolutamide was clastogenic in an in vitro chromosome aberration assay in human peripheral blood lymphocytes .
Darolutamide did not induce mutations in the bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay and was not genotoxic in the in vivo combined bone marrow micronucleus assay and the Comet assay in the liver and duodenum of the rat .
Fertility studies in animals have not been conducted with darolutamide .
In repeat - dose toxicity studies in male rats ( up to 26 weeks ) and dogs ( up to 39 weeks ) , tubular dilatation of testes , hypospermia , and atrophy of seminal vesicles , testes , prostate gland and epididymides were observed at doses ≥ 100 mg / kg / day in rats ( 0 . 6 times the human exposure based on AUC ) and ≥ 50 mg / kg / day in dogs ( approximately 1 times the human exposure based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Non - Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer ARAMIS ( NCT02200614 ) was a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in 1509 patients with non - metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer with a prostate - specific antigen doubling time ( PSADT ) of ≤ 10 months .
Randomization was stratified by PSADT and use of bone - targeted therapy at study entry .
Patients with pelvic lymph nodes less than 2 cm in short axis below the aortic bifurcation and patients with a history of seizures were eligible to enter the study .
Absence or presence of metastasis was assessed by blinded independent central review ( BICR ) .
PSA results were not blinded and were not used for treatment discontinuation .
Patients were randomized 2 : 1 to receive either 600 mg darolutamide orally twice daily ( n = 955 ) or matching placebo ( n = 554 ) .
Treatment continued until radiographic disease progression as assessed by CT , MRI , 99 mTc bone scan by BICR , unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal .
All patients received a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or had a bilateral orchiectomy .
The following patient demographics and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment arms .
The median age was 74 years ( range 48 – 95 ) and 9 % of patients were 85 years of age or older .
The racial distribution included 79 % White , 13 % Asian , 3 % Black or African American , while ethnicity included 3 . 1 % Hispanic or Latino patients .
A majority of patients ( 73 % ) had a Gleason score of 7 or higher at diagnosis .
The median PSADT was 4 . 5 months .
Forty - two percent of patients in both treatment arms had prior surgery or radiotherapy to the prostate .
Eleven percent of patients had enlarged pelvic lymph nodes less than 2 cm at study entry .
Six percent of patients were retrospectively identified by BICR as having metastases at baseline .
Seventy - three percent of patients received prior treatment with an anti - androgen ( bicalutamide or flutamide ) .
All patients had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status ( ECOG PS ) score of 0 or 1 at study entry .
There were 12 patients enrolled on the NUBEQA arm with a history of seizure .
At baseline , 47 % of patients reported no pain on the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form ( a 7 - day diary average of the daily worst pain item ) .
The major efficacy endpoint was metastasis free survival ( MFS ) , defined as the time from randomization to the time of first evidence of BICR - confirmed distant metastasis or death from any cause within 33 weeks after the last evaluable scan , whichever occurred first .
Distant metastasis was defined as new bone or soft tissue lesions or enlarged lymph nodes above the aortic bifurcation .
Overall survival ( OS ) , time to pain progression , and time to initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy , were additional efficacy endpoints .
Treatment with NUBEQA resulted in a statistically significant improvement in MFS compared to placebo .
At the protocol - specified final analysis of OS , treatment with NUBEQA resulted in a statistically significant improvement in OS compared to placebo .
The final analysis of OS and time to initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy was event - driven and conducted after 254 OS events had occurred .
The efficacy results from ARAMIS are summarized in Table 5 and Figure 1 .
Table 5 : Efficacy Results from the ARAMIS Study NUBEQA ( N = 955 ) Placebo ( N = 554 ) Metastasis - free survival [ 1 ] Distant Metastasis or Death ( % ) 221 ( 23 ) 216 ( 39 ) Median , months ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] 40 . 4 ( 34 . 3 , NR ) 18 . 4 ( 15 . 5 , 22 . 3 ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) [ 3 ] 0 . 41 ( 0 . 34 , 0 . 50 ) P - value < 0 . 0001 Overall survival [ 4 ] Deaths ( % ) 148 ( 15 ) 106 ( 19 ) Median , months ( 95 % CI ) NR ( 56 . 1 , NR ) NR ( 46 . 9 , NR ) Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) null 0 . 69 ( 0 . 53 , 0 . 88 ) P - value [ 5 ] 0 . 003 NR : not reached [ 1 ] Locoregional - only progression occurred in 6 % of patients overall .
[ 2 ] Based on Kaplan - Meier estimates [ 3 ] Hazard ratio is based on a stratified Cox regression model .
Hazard ratio < 1 favors NUBEQA .
[ 4 ] The pre - specified final OS analysis was event - driven and occurred 14 months after the MFS analysis [ 5 ] P - value is based on a log - rank test stratified by PSADT ( ≤ 6 months vs . > 6 months ) and use of osteoclast - targeted therapy ( yes vs . no ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] MFS results were consistent across patient subgroups for PSADT ( ≤ 6 months or > 6 months ) or prior use of bone - targeting agents ( yes or no ) .
Treatment with NUBEQA resulted in a statistically significant delay in time to pain progression ( HR = 0 . 65 , 95 % CI = 0 . 53 , 0 . 79 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Time to pain progression was defined as at least a 2 - point worsening from baseline of the pain score on Brief Pain Inventory Short Form or initiation of opioids and reported in 28 % of all patients on study .
Treatment with NUBEQA resulted in a statistically significant delay in the initiation of cytotoxic chemotherapy ( HR = 0 . 58 , 95 % CI = 0 . 44 , 0 . 76 ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Metastatic Hormone - Sensitive Prostate Cancer ARASENS ( NCT02799602 ) was a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial in 1306 patients with mHSPC .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to receive 600 mg darolutamide orally twice daily ( n = 651 ) or matching placebo ( n = 655 ) , concomitantly with 75 mg / m2 of docetaxel for 6 cycles .
All patients received a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog concurrently or had a bilateral orchiectomy .
Treatment with NUBEQA or placebo continued until symptomatic progressive disease , change of antineoplastic therapy , or unacceptable toxicity .
Patients with regional lymph node involvement only ( M0 ) were excluded from the study .
Patients were stratified by extent of disease ( non – regional lymph nodes metastases only ( M1a ) , bone metastases with or without lymph node metastases ( M1b ) or visceral metastases with or without lymph node metastases or with or without bone metastases ( M1c ) ) and by alkaline phosphatase level ( < or ≥ upper limit of normal ) at study entry .
The following patient demographics and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment arms .
The median age was 67 years ( range 41 – 89 ) and 17 % of patients were 75 years of age or older .
The racial distribution included 52 % White , 36 % Asian , 4 % Black , while ethnicity included 7 % Hispanic patients .
Seventy - eight percent ( 78 % ) of patients had a Gleason score of ≥ 8 at diagnosis .
Seventy one percent ( 71 % ) of patients had an ECOG performance status score of 0 and 29 % patients had an ECOG performance status score of 1 .
There were 86 % of patients with de novo and 13 % with recurrent disease .
At initial diagnosis of metastatic disease , 3 % had M1a , 83 % had M1b and 14 % had M1c disease ; alkaline phosphatase was < ULN in 45 % of patients and ≥ ULN in 55 % of patients ; median PSA level at baseline was 30 µg / L and 24 µg / L for NUBEQA vs placebo group , respectively .
Patients with a medical history of seizure were allowed to enter the study , and 4 patients ( 0 . 6 % ) were enrolled in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm .
The major efficacy outcome measure was overall survival ( OS ) .
Time to pain progression was an additional efficacy outcome measure .
Treatment with NUBEQA with docetaxel resulted in a statistically significant improvement in OS compared to placebo with docetaxel .
OS results were consistent across stratified subgroups ( extent of disease and alkaline phosphatase level ) .
Table 6 : Efficacy Results from the ARASENS study NUBEQA with docetaxel ( N = 651 ) Placebo with docetaxel ( N = 654 ) [ 1 ] Overall survival • Deaths ( % ) 229 ( 35 ) 304 ( 46 ) • Median in months ( 95 % CI ) NR ( NR , NR ) 48 . 9 ( 44 . 4 , NR ) • Hazard Ratio ( 95 % CI ) [ 2 ] 0 . 68 ( 0 . 57 , 0 . 80 ) • P - value [ 3 ] < 0 . 0001 [ 1 ] One patient in the placebo arm was excluded from all analyses due to the violation of Good Clinical Practices [ 2 ] Hazard ratio < 1 favors NUBEQA [ 3 ] P - value is one - sided , and based on a log - rank test stratified by extent of disease ( Non - regional lymph nodes metastases only or bone metastases with or without lymph node metastases or visceral metastases with or without lymph node metastases or with or without bone metastases ) and Alkaline Phosphatase ( ALP < ULN or ALP ≥ ULN ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Treatment with NUBEQA with docetaxel resulted in a statistically significant delay in time to pain progression ( HR = 0 . 79 , 95 % CI = 0 . 66 , 0 . 95 ; 1 - sided p value = 0 . 006 ) .
Time to pain progression was defined as the time from randomization to the time of pain progression .
Pain progression is defined as : • • An increase of 2 or more points in the “ worst pain in 24 hours ” score ( WPS ) from nadir observed at 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart , or initiation of short - or long - acting opioid use for pain for at least 7 consecutive days , for asymptomatic patients ( WPS = 0 ) at baseline • • An increase of 2 or more points in the “ worst pain in 24 hours ” score ( WPS ) from nadir observed at 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart , and a WPS of 4 or greater , or initiation of short - or long - acting opioid use for pain for at least 7 consecutive days , for symptomatic patients ( WPS ≥ 1 ) at baselinePatients with opioid use within 4 weeks before randomization were censored at randomization in this analysis ( 125 patients ( 19 % ) in the NUBEQA with docetaxel arm and 118 patients ( 18 % ) in the placebo with docetaxel arm ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied NUBEQA ( darolutamide ) 300 mg film - coated tablets are white to off - white , oval shaped tablets , marked with “ 300 ” on one side , and “ BAYER ” on the other side .
NUBEQA 300 mg tablets are available in bottles of 120 tablets .
NDC 50419 - 395 - 01 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep the bottle tightly closed after first opening .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Ischemic Heart Disease Inform patients that NUBEQA has been associated with an increased risk of ischemic heart disease .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if any symptoms suggestive of an ischemic heart disease event occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Seizure Inform patients that NUBEQA has been associated with an increased risk of seizure .
Discuss conditions that may predispose to seizures and medications that may lower the seizure threshold .
Advise patients of the risk of engaging in any activity where sudden loss of consciousness could cause serious harm to themselves or others .
Inform patients to contact their healthcare provider right away if they have loss of consciousness or seizure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Inform patients that NUBEQA can be harmful to a developing fetus and can cause loss of pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of NUBEQA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Inform patients receiving concomitant gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog therapy that they need to maintain this treatment during the course of treatment with NUBEQA .
Instruct patients to take their dose of two tablets ( twice daily ) .
NUBEQA should be taken with food .
Each tablet should be swallowed whole .
Inform patients that in the event of a missed daily dose of NUBEQA , to take any missed dose , as soon as they remember prior to the next scheduled dose , and not to take two doses together to make up for a missed dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Advise male patients that NUBEQA may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Orion Corporation , Orion Pharma , FI - 02101 Espoo , Finland Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Whippany , NJ 07981 USA © 2019 Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
For more information , call Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . at Bayer at 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 or go to www . NUBEQA - us . com Patient Package Insert PATIENT INFORMATION NUBEQA ® ( NO ͞ O - bə - kə ) ( darolutamide ) tablets What is NUBEQA ?
NUBEQA is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with prostate cancer : • • that has not spread to other parts of the body and no longer responds to a medical or surgical treatment that lowers testosterone ( non - metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer or nmCRPC ) , or • • that has spread to other parts of the body and responds to medical or surgical treatment that lowers testosterone ( metastatic hormone - sensitive prostate cancer or mHSPC ) , in combination with docetaxel .
It is not known if NUBEQA is safe and effective in females .
It is not known if NUBEQA is safe and effective in children .
Before taking NUBEQA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • have heart problems • • have high blood pressure • • have diabetes • • have high amounts of fat or cholesterol in your blood ( dyslipidemia ) • • have a history of seizures , brain injury , stroke , or brain tumors • • have kidney or liver problems • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
NUBEQA can cause harm to your unborn baby and loss of pregnancy ( miscarriage ) .
• • have a partner who may become pregnant .
Males who have female partners who may become pregnant should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of NUBEQA .
Talk with your healthcare provider about birth control methods .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if NUBEQA passes into breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
NUBEQA may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how NUBEQA works .
You should not start or stop any medicine before you talk with the healthcare provider that prescribed NUBEQA .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take NUBEQA ?
• • Take NUBEQA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• • Your healthcare provider may change your dose , temporarily stop , or completely stop your treatment with NUBEQA if you have certain side effects .
• • Take your prescribed dose of NUBEQA 2 times a day with food .
• • Swallow NUBEQA tablets whole .
• • If you are receiving gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) analog therapy , you should continue with this treatment during your treatment with NUBEQA unless you have had a surgery to lower the amount of testosterone in your body ( surgical castration ) .
• • If you miss a dose of NUBEQA , take your prescribed dose as soon as you remember before the next scheduled dose .
Do not take 2 doses together to make up for a missed dose .
• • If you take more NUBEQA than prescribed , call your healthcare provider right away .
What are the possible side effects of NUBEQA ?
NUBEQA may cause serious side effects , including : • • Heart disease .
Blockage of the arteries in the heart ( ischemic heart disease ) that can lead to death has happened in some people during treatment with NUBEQA .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and symptoms of heart problems during your treatment with NUBEQA .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you get chest pain or discomfort at rest or with activity , or shortness of breath during your treatment with NUBEQA .
• • Seizure .
Treatment with NUBEQA may increase your risk of having a seizure .
You should avoid activities where a sudden loss of consciousness could cause serious harm to yourself or others .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have loss of consciousness or seizure .
The most common side effects of NUBEQA in people with nmCRPC include : • • increase in liver function tests • • decreased white blood cells ( neutropenia ) • • feeling more tired than usual • • arm , leg , hand or foot pain • • rash The most common side effects of NUBEQA when used in combination with docetaxel in people with mHSPC include : • • constipation • • decreased appetite • • rash • • bleeding • • weight gain • • high blood pressure • • decreased red blood cells ( anemia ) • • high blood sugar levels • • decreased white blood cells • • increase in liver function tests • • low blood calcium levels s NUBEQA may cause fertility problems in males , which may affect the ability to father children .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have concerns about fertility .
These are not all the possible side effects of NUBEQA .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store NUBEQA ?
• • Store NUBEQA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep the bottle tightly closed after you first open it .
Keep NUBEQA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of NUBEQA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use NUBEQA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NUBEQA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about NUBEQA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in NUBEQA ?
Active ingredient : darolutamide Inactive ingredients : calcium hydrogen phosphate , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone K 30 , hypromellose 15 cP , macrogol 3350 , and titanium dioxide .
Manufactured by : Orion Corporation , Orion Pharma , FI - 02101 Espoo , Finland Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Whippany , NJ 07981 USA © 2019 Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
For more information , call Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc . at Bayer at 1 - 888 - 842 - 2937 or go to www . NUBEQA - us . com • This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration . Revised : 8 / 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 50419 - 395 - 01 Rx Only NUBEQA ( darolutamide ) tablets 300 mg 120 film - coated tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
