Active Ingredients SALICYLIC ACID 0 . 25 % Purpose Dandruff Uses Dr . Pelo Scalp Tonic Sheet helps relieve hair loss , dandruff , and itchiness to restore scalp health .
Warnings For external use only Stop use 1 .
Be discontinued immediately the use of this product in the following cases , consult your doctor or pharmacist , at the time of consultation , as far as possible : If rash , erythema , itching , swelling , and the like are displayed 2 .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
3 .
People who have hypersensitivity to salicylic acid , diabetes , blood circulation disorder , kidney failure , infectious disease , redness , menstruation , pregnancy or who are pregnant may become hypersensitive to skin or body after use ( Edema , inflammation , etc . ) may occur and current symptoms may worsen , so avoid using .
4 .
If you have any allergic symptoms , you should consult your doctor or pharmacist before use .
Do not use 5 .
Do not use for children under the age of 3 .
Keep out of reach of children 6 .
Keep out of reach of babies and children Directions Whenever necessary , apply scalp tonic sheet to the scalp properly , then rub thoroughly using your fingertips to massage .
Inactive ingredients Water , Houttuynia Cordata Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Acorus Calamus Root Extract , Alcohol , Centella Asiatica Extract , Poly - sorbate 20 , Polyoxyethylene Hydrogenated Castor oil , Phenoxyethanol , L - Menthol , Sodium Citrate , Dexpanthenol , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , Allantoin , Niacinamide , Hydrolyzed Keratin , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Hydrolyzed Silk , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Coix Lacryma - Jobi Ma - yuen Seed Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Hyaluronic Acid , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Disodium EDTA Other information Do not store near high heat or flame Do not keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hor or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
Do not put in other containers for prevent abuse and keep quality Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
