active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 12 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away .
Directions • apply liberaly 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especialy from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , styrene / acrylates copolymer , silica , butyloctyl salicylate , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , VP / hexadecene copolymer , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , behenyl alcohol , dimethicone , caprylyl methicone , trimethylsiloxysilicate , sodium polyacrylate , chlorphenesin , benzyl alcohol , glycerin , xanthan gum , fragrance , disodium EDTA , BHT adverse reaction May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . , distributor of Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 95 .
** Oxybenson & Octinoxate Free Questions 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 DISTRIBUTED BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 principal display panel Compare to Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 55 * meijer Sheer touch SUNSCREEN LOTION Broad Spectrum SPF 55 WATER RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) Clean , lightweight feel Dermatologist tested Quickly absorbs Non - greasy REEF FRIENDLY 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
