Drug Facts Active ingredients Menthol 16 . 0 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pain muscles and joints associated with : • ♦ simple backache • ♦ arthritis • ♦ strains • ♦ bruises and sprains • ♦ cramps Warnings For external use only .
Test on a small patch of skin before applying generously .
When using this product • ♦ Use only as directed • ♦ avoid contact with eyes • ♦ do not apply to wounds or damages skin • ♦ do not bandage tightly • ♦ do not use with heating pads or other heating devices • ♦ if redness is present , discontinue and consult a doctor • ♦ if skin irritation occurs , discontinue use Stop use and consult a doctor if • ♦ condition worsens • ♦ redness is present • ♦ irritation develops • ♦ symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Flammable • ♦ keep away from fire or flame If pregnant or breast - feeding , as a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : • ♦ apply generously to affected area • ♦ massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed into skin • ♦ repeat if necessary , but not more than 3 to 4 times daily • ♦ IF MEDICINE COMES IN CONTACT WITH HANDS , WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Alcohol Denat . , Capsaicin , Citric Acid , Glycerin , Isopropyl Myristate , Propylene Glycol , Water .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 73 mL Cylinder Carton ♥ CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredient in Icy Hot ® * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Cold & Hot PAIN RELIEF LIQUID MENTHOL 16 % • No mess • Strong , quick relief • Roller ball applicator keeps hands clean • Stain free & fast drying Roll - on , easy applicator Actual Product Size on Side Panel 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 73 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
