Rx only FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY DESCRIPTION : Sulfacetamide Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 10 % , is a sterile , topical , anti - bacterial agent for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C8H9N2NaO3S • H2O Mol .
Wt .
254 . 24 Chemical name : N - Sulfanilylacetamide monosodium salt monohydrate .
Each mL Contains : ACTIVE : Sulfacetamide Sodium , 100 mg ( 10 % ) ; INACTIVES : Methylcellulose , Sodium Thiosulfate , Purified Water .
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic may be added to adjust pH ( 6 . 8 - 8 . 0 ) .
PRESERVATIVES ADDED : Methylparaben 0 . 05 % and Propylparaben 0 . 01 % .
The osmolality range is 700 - 1300 mOsm / kg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Microbiology : The sulfonamides are bacteriostatic agents and the spectrum of activity is similar for all .
Sulfonamides inhibit bacterial synthesis of dihydrofolic acid by preventing the condensation of the pteridine with aminobenzoic acid through competitive inhibition of the enzyme dihydropteroate synthetase .
Resistant strains have altered dihydropteroate synthetase with reduced affinity for sulfonamides or produce increased quantities of aminobenzoic acid .
Topically applied sulfonamides are considered active against susceptible strains of the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus ( viridans group ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species .
Topically applied sulfonamides do not provide adequate coverage against Neisseria species , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
A significant percentage of staphylococcal isolates are completely resistant to sulfa drugs .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For the treatment of conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections due to susceptible microorganisms , and as an adjunctive in systemic sulfonamide therapy of trachoma : Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Streptococcus ( viridans group ) , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species .
Topically applied sulfonamides do not provide adequate coverage against Neisseria species , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
A significant percentage of staphylococcal isolates are completely resistant to sulfa drugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any ingredient of the preparation .
WARNINGS : FOR TOPICAL EYE USE ONLY - NOT FOR INJECTION .
FATALITIES HAVE OCCURRED , ALTHOUGH RARELY , DUE TO SEVERE REACTIONS TO SULFONAMIDES INCLUDING STEVENS - JOHNSON SYNDROME , TOXIC EPIDERMAL NECROLYSIS , FULMINANT HEPATIC NECROSIS , AGRANULOCYTOSIS , APLASTIC ANEMIA AND OTHER BLOOD DYSCRASIAS .
Sensitizations may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
Sensitivity reactions have been reported in individuals with no prior history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , skin rash or other serious reaction , discontinue use of this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Prolonged use of topical anti - bacterial agents may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Bacterial resistance to sulfonamides may also develop .
The effectiveness of sulfonamides may be reduced by the para - aminobenzoic acid present in purulent exudates .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration , and crosssensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , increase in purulent discharge , or aggravation of inflammation or pain , the patient should discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information for patients : To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to eye , eyelid or any surface .
Drug Interactions : Sulfacetamide preparations are incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the possibility of these effects with ocularly administered sulfacetamide .
Rats appear to be especially susceptible to the goitrogenic effects of sulfonamides , and long - term oral administration of sulfonamides has resulted in thyroid malignancies in these animals .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations .
Kernicterus may occur in the newborn as a result of treatment of a pregnant woman at term with orally administered sulfonamides .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations in pregnant women and it is not known whether topically applied sulfonamides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered sulfonamides are capable of producing kernicterus in infants of lactating women .
Because of the potential for the development of kernicterus in neonates , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of two months have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations .
The most frequently reported reactions are local irritation , stinging and burning .
Less commonly reported reactions include non - specific conjunctivitis , conjunctival hyperemia , secondary infections and allergic reactions .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For conjunctivitis and other superficial ocular infections : Instill one or two drops into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every two to three hours initially .
Dosages may be tapered by increasing the time interval between doses as the condition responds .
The usual duration of treatment is seven to ten days .
For Trachoma : Instill two drops into the conjunctival sac ( s ) of the affected eye ( s ) every two hours .
Topical administration must be accompanied by systemic administration .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sulfacetamide Sodium Ophthalmic Solution USP , 10 % , is supplied in a plastic squeeze bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following size : 15 mL bottle - Prod .
No . 03011 DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED " Protective Seal " WITH YELLOW [ MULTIMEDIA ] IS NOT INTACT Storage : Store between 2 ° - 30 ° C ( 36 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Sulfonamide solutions , on long standing , will darken in color and should be discarded .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised November 2007 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9113200 ( Folded ) 9113300 ( Flat ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 ML Bottle Label CommUnity Care Federally Qualified Centers SULF .
SOD .
OPHT . SOL 10 % 15 ML Date : Name : Dr . INSTILL 2 DROPS IN AFFECTED EYE ( S ) 3 TIMES A DAY FOR 7 DAYS .
123456 1 / 1 / 01 SULFACETamide SOD10 % OPH SOL15MLNDC 76413 - 126 - 15 Batch : 123456 Lot : 123456 Exp : 1 / 1 / 01 Bausch & Lomb Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any other person than the patient for whom prescribed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
