ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( IN EACH TABLET ) Famotidine USP , 10 mg Famotidine USP , 20 mg PURPOSE Acid reducer USES • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages WARNINGS Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use Famotidine USP , 10 mg • with other acid reducers • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Famotidine USP , 20 mg • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
• if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding Ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
DIRECTIONS Famotidine USP , 10 mg • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Famotidine USP , 20 mg • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor OTHER INFORMATION • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE CARTON OR INDIVIDUAL BLISTER UNIT IS OPEN OR TORN .
• TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE CARTON OR PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP IS OPEN OR TORN .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide red ( only for Famotidine USP , 10 mg ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 , pregelatinized starch , talc , titanium dioxide QUESTIONS ?
Call 1 - 800 - 406 - 7984 PATIENT INFORMATION • 1 tablet relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion • Famotidine prevents heartburn due to acid indigestion brought on by eating and drinking certain foods and beverages .
Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over after eating • Do not wear tight - fitting clothing around the stomach • Do not eat before bedtime • Raise the head of your bed • Avoid heartburn - causing foods such as rich , spicy , fatty or fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , and certain fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and avoid big meals • If overweight , lose weight • Quit smoking PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Preferred Plus Pharmacy ™ † Compare to the active ingredient of Original Strength Pepcid ® AC ORIGINAL STRENGTH Acid Controller Famotidine Tablets USP , 10 mg Acid Reducer Just One Tablet Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion 30 Tablets Distributed By : Kinray , Inc .
5086088 / 0411 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Preferred Plus Pharmacy ™ † Compare to the active ingredient of Maximum Strength Pepcid ® AC MAXIMUM STRENGTH Acid Controller Famotidine Tablets USP , 20 mg Acid Reducer Just One Tablet Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion 25 Tablets Distributed By : Kinray , Inc .
5091314 / 1111 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
