Drug Facts Drug Facts Active ingredients Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 5 % Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Oral pain reliever Antiseptic Use · for the temporary relief of pain due to toothaches · to help protect against infection of minor oral irritation Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use · more than directed · for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor · for teething · in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tube on score mark • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply a small amount of product to the cavity and around the gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children between 2 and 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not use if tip is cut prior to opening • this preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted • do not use continuously • this formula will stay in place for extended duration of relief • avoid using toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for at least one hour after applying Inactive ingredients Blue 1 , Cellulose Gum , Gelatin , Methyl Salicylate , Mineral Oil , Pectin , Petrolatum , Polyethylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin equate Triple Medicated Severe Toothache & Gum Relief Oral Pain Reliever / Antiseptic Immediate Relief of Intense Pain • Maximum strength BENZOCAINE for toothache pain relief • Antiseptic to help prevent infection • Soothing menthol for gums Fast Acting Gel Compare to Orajel ™ Severe Triple Medicated Gel Active Ingredients * Satisfaction guaranteed - Or we ' ll replace it or give you your money back .
For questions or comments or to report an undesired reaction or side effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc .
Bentonville , AR 72716 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Church & Dwight Co .
Inc . , makers of Orajel ™ .
TAMPER - EVIDENT : Do not use if tube tip is cut prior to use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
