Active Ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • prevents the recurrence of most athlete ' s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , cracking and burning Warnings For external use only .
Extremely flammable : Contents under pressure .
Keep away from fire , sparks , and heated surfaces .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuses by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before use • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • hold can 4 - 6 inches away from affected area • spray a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm • if condition persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clean with a pin Other information • store between 20 ° and 30 ° C ( 68 ° and 86 ° F ) • for targeted application between toes , rotate straw 180 ° and lock in place • for all - over application , keep straw in a locked position Inactive ingredients SD alcohol 40 , isobutane , PPG - 12 - buteth - 16 , water , butylene glycol , butane , butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , BHT , soyethyl morpholinium ethosulfate , quaternium - 91 , cetrimonium methosulfate , cetearyl alcohol , sodium bicarbonate , sorbitan stearate , sorbityl laurate , glycerin , dimethicone Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 964 - 0939 Monday - Friday 8 AM - 4 : 30 PM EST www . armandhammerfootcare . com Principal Display Panel MEDICATED ANTIFUNGAL ARM & HAMMER MOISTURIZING ATHLETE ' S FOOT TOLNAFTATE 1 % SPRAYS 2 WAYS Soothes Dry , Cracked Feet With Shea Butter Relieves & Prevents Itching & Burning NET WT .
4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
