Active ingredient Undecylenic acid 25 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For cure of most tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) and tinea corporis ( ringworm ) .
For relief of : • itching • burning • redness • irritation • scaling • soreness • discomfort which may accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breastfeeding consult a healthcare professional before use .
Do not use on children 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes Use only as directed by a doctor on persons with highly sensitive skin .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • there is no improvement within 4 weeks • irritation occurs Keep out of children .
If accidental ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read all warnings and directions .
Use only as directed .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over the affecter area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If conditions persists longer , consult a doctorthis product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from freezing .
If freezing occurs warm to room temperature • keep tightly closed when not in use Inactive ingredient isopropyl palmitate Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 910 - 6874 Principal Display Panel Front Panel Compare to active ingredient in Fungi - Nail ® anti - fungal solution * maximum strength antifungal nail liquid 25 % undecylenic acid eliminates fungus on fingers , toes and around nails topical solution with brush applicator NET 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) Side Panel Eliminates and helps stop the spread of fungal infections on cuticles , around nail edges , and under nail tips where reachable with applicator brush .
Topical antifungal treatment will not penetrate hard nail surfaces .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Kramer Laboratories , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Fungi - Nail ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
