DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Titanium Dioxide 2 . 0 % Zinc Oxide 18 . 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses ▪ Helps prevent sunburn .
▪ If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ▪ Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure ▪ Reapply ▪ After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ▪ Immediately after towel drying ▪ At least every 2 hours ▪ Sun Protection Measures ▪ Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ▪ Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . ▪ Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ▪ Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice * , C10 - 18 Triglycerides , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Propanediol , Coco - Caprylate , Isostearic Acid , Lecithin , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polyricinoleate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Glyceryl Stearate , Sodium Citrate , Kaolin , Sodium Stearoyl Glutamate , Xanthan Gum , Salicylic Acid , Glycerin , Tocopherol , Benzaldehyde , Benzyl Alcohol , Potassium Sorbate , Alumina , Stearic Acid , Ascorbic Acid .
* Certified Organic .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 263 - 8888 Outside Canada or the United States dial 514 - 333 - 8282 or visit www . druidebio . com DRUIDE BIOLOVE KIDS SFP 30 MINERAL SUNSCREEN 100 G ( NDC 71447 - 200 - 00 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
