ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Titanium Dioxide 9 . 66 % , Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate 6 . 70 % , Ethylhexyl Salicylate 4 . 00 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Bambusa Vulgaris Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Butylene Glycol Dicaprylate / Dicaprate , PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Methyl Methacrylate Crosspolymer , Pentylene Glycol , Butylene Glycol , Glycerin , Niacinamide , Mica ( CI 77019 ) , Dimethicone , Silica , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Dipropylene Glycol , Magnesium Sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Iron Oxides ( CI 77492 ) , Caprylyl Methicone , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Diphenyl Dimethicone , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Water , Stearic Acid , Alumina , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 ) , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Aluminum Hydroxide , Ethylhexylglycerin , Iron Oxides ( CI 77499 ) , Adenosine , Disodium EDTA , Calcium Carbonate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Gossypium Herbaceum ( Cotton ) Powder , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Lecithin , Polyglutamic Acid , Cassia Angustifolia Seed Polysaccharide , Phospholipids , Ceramide NP , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Cholesterol , Arginine , Phytosterols PURPOSE Purpose : Sunscreen WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
If any of the following symptoms occur when using the product , stop using immediately and consult a dermatologist .
a ) red spots , swelling , itchy rashes other skin irritations , etc . b ) if a ) occurs after applying and being exposed to sunlight .
2 .
Do not use on wounds , inflamed skin , itchy areas , or other infected areas .
3 .
Storage and handling : a ) must close cap after use .
b ) Keep out of reach of children .
c ) keep away from extreme heat , cold and direct sunlight .
d ) Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
4 .
For external use only .
DESCRIPTION Uses : An ultra - light and non - oxidizing cushion foundation that allows layering without caking .
Perfect for mid - day touch ups .
Directions : 1 .
Gently soak the applicator puff on to mesh to use product .
2 .
Start from inner areas of the face and work outwards 3 .
Softly swipe over the skin to spread evenly before applying the foundation .
* Coverage can build up by layering a small amount several times .
4 .
Close cap after use .
5 .
To refill the product : Open outer cap , but close the inner cap and flip over the product .
While holding the product push down on the bottom sticker with both thumbs while having outer cap open .
Once the existing container is removed , replace it with a refill with the hinge set on the dipped area which is on the left hand side .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
