This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
• Denaturant • Fragrance Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 80 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses Hand Sanitizer helps reduce germs on the skin that may cause disease .
Warnings Flammable .
Not for Human Consumption • External Use Only • Keep away from heat or flame • Do not use with children less than 2 months old • Do not use on open skin wounds If contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with clean water .
Stop use if irritation or rash appear .
If swallowed , Call Poison Control Center : 800 - 222 - 1222 Directions Apply a palmful of the product in cupped hand , covering all surfaces well with product .
Rub hands together for 15 seconds , pay attention between fingers , fingernails and cuticles .
Allow to dry without wiping .
Prevent swallowing .
Supervise children less than 6 years old .
Other information • Store between 59 ° F and 86 ° F • Avoid freezing and high heat ( above 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients bitrex , distilled water , fragrance , glycerin , hydrogen peroxide We are adding a different product ( 81184 - 005 - 05 ) , so this is the new label for that new product .
It is not a revision of the old product ( 81184 - 003 - 03 ) at all .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
