DRUG FACTS Active Ingredients Salicylic acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses Helps prevent new acne pimples from forming .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product ▪ avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water ▪ Skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur when using another topical acne product at the same time .
If irritation occurs , use only one product at a time .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ you develop severe irritation , burning or itching of the skin ▪ for more severe cases and or if improvement is not apparent within 6 to 8 weeks ▪ If you develop hives , swelling of eyes and mouth , blistering or difficulty breathing , get medical help right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ▪ For new users : apply product to a small area once to test if you are sensitive to this product .
▪ If no discomfort occurs , moisten skin with warm water .
▪ Dispense two full pumps of product into palm of hand , apply by gently massaging over the entire affected area , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
▪ Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes with water .
▪ Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
▪ If bothersome dryness , irritation or peeling occurs , reduce application to every other day .
Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice * , Arctium Lappa Root Extract * , Urtica Dioica ( Nettle ) Extract * , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract * , Propanediol , Coco - Glucoside , Glycerin , Silver Citrate , Arginine , Magnolia Officinalis Bark Extract , Michelia Alba Flower Oil , Citrus Aurantifolia ( Lime ) Oil * , Lavandula Hybrida Oil * , Tea Tree Leaf Oil * , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil Expressed * , Sodium Gluconate , Levulinic Acid , Sodium Levulinate , Potassium Sorbate , Citric Acid , Aqua .
Certified organic * Questions or Comments ?
Call + 1 800 - 263 - 8888 Outside Canada or United States , dial + 1 514 - 333 - 8282 , or visit www . nellydevuyst . com Distributed By 7774672 Canada Inc ( Derme & Co ) 4980 Chemin Bois Franc St . Laurent , QC H4S 1A7 Canada + 1 514 - 333 - 8282 , + 1 800 - 263 - 8888 www . nellydevuyst . com Made in Canada NELLY DEVUYST MICELLAR FOAM BIOACNE 5 . 07 FL . OZ ( 150 mL ) ( 71447 - 008 - 00 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
