20171207 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Fexofenadine HCl USP , 180 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product • do not take more than directed • do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids • do not take with fruit juices ( see Directions ) Stop use and ask doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day ; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use Adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • safety sealed : do not use if carton is opened or if individual blister units are torn or opened • store between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) • protect from excessive moisture • this product meets the requirements of USP Dissolution Test 2 Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Red no . 40 , hypromellose , iron oxide black , magnesium stearate , mannitol , polyethylene glycol , powder cellulose and titanium dioxide .
Questions ?
call toll - free 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 Allergy Relief ( fexofenadine hydrochloride USP ) Tablets 180 mg 15 count carton FAMILY wellness ™ COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT OF ALLREGRA ® ALLERGY 24 HOUR TABLETS * 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK Original Prescription Strength NON - DROWSY Allergy Relief Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Tablets USP , 180 mg / Antihistamine Indoor & Outdoor Allergies Relief of : Sneezing ; Runny Nose Itchy , Watery Eyes ; Itchy Nose or Throat 15 TABLETS 180 mg each 24 HOUR [ MULTIMEDIA ]
