Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 5 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the management of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • using warm water , wash affected area for 1 - 2 minutes • rinse thoroughly and pat dry with a clean towel • start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 - 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor Other information Store in a dry place between 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Sodium cocoyl isethionate , stearic acid , coconut fatty acid , sodium isethionate , water .
coco glucoside , cetearyl alcohol & ceteareth - 20 , iron oxides ( red and yellow ) , lactic acid Questions ?
1 - 800 - 827 - 3730 www . dermaharmony . com Distributed by : D3 Development , Inc . , Portland , ME 04101 Made in USA of U . S . and imported ingredients .
NDC Code : 71819 - 013 - 04 dermaharmony 5 % Benzoyl Peroxide Cleansing Bar FOR THE TREATMENT OF ACNE Reduces : pimples - blemishes - whiteheads - blackheads NET WT 4 OZ ( 113 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
