Active ingredient ( in each lozenge ) ( 2 mg ) Nicotine polacrilex , 2 mg Active ingredient ( in each lozenge ) ( 4 mg ) Nicotine polacrilex , 4 mg Purpose Stop smoking aid Use • • reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • stomach ulcer or diabetes • • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • mouth problems occur • • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , diarrhea , weakness and rapid heartbeat • • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as difficulty breathing or rash ) Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick .
If you need to remove the lozenge , wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ( 2 mg Lozenge ) • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you .
• • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine lozenge • • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow lozenge .
• • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects • • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
• • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Directions ( 4 mg Lozenge ) • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use .
No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you .
• • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other important information • • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use 2 mg nicotine lozenge • • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up , use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule : Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve .
Minimize swallowing .
Do not chew or swallow lozenge .
• • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • • to improve your chances of quitting , use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups , heartburn , nausea or other side effects • • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours .
Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day .
• • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information • • store at 20 – 25 oC ( 68 – 77 oF ) • • keep vial tightly closed and protect from light Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , calcium polycarbophil , flavors , magnesium stearate , mannitol , potassium bicarbonate , sodium alginate , sodium carbonate , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 888 - 569 - 1743 Additional Information TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : • 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
• 2 .
Use Enough – Use at least 9 Nicorette ® mini lozenges per day during the first six weeks .
• 3 .
Use Long Enough – Use Nicorette ® mini lozenges for the full 12 weeks .
• 4 .
Use With a Support Program as directed in the enclosed User ’ s Guide .
• • not for sale to those under 18 years of age • • proof of age required • • not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified TAMPER EVIDENT FEATURE : Do not use if clear neckband printed “ SEALED FOR SAFETY ” is missing or broken .
Retain outer carton for full product uses , directions and warnings .
For more information and for a FREE individualized stop smoking program , please visit www . Nicorette . com or see inside for more details .
Opening Directions : Push in child resistant tab on the vial with thumb .
Flip up the top of vial .
Turn upside down and shake to remove lozenge .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
Distributed By : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2021 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 2800 - 02 Nicorette nicotine polacrilex lozenge , 2 mg stop smoking aid mini Lozenge Mint 2 mg FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE MORE THAN 30 MINUTES AFTER WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette WITHIN 30 MINUTES of waking up , use Nicorette ® 4 mg Lozenge .
81 LOZENGES , 2 mg Each ( 3 Vials of 27 ) B101169 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 1500 - 02 Nicorette nicotine polacrilex lozenge , 4 mg stop smoking aid mini Lozenge Mint 4 mg FOR THOSE WHO SMOKE THEIR FIRST CIGARETTE WITHIN 30 MINUTES OF WAKING UP .
If you smoke your first cigarette MORE THAN 30 MINUTES after waking up , use Nicorette ® 2 mg Lozenge 81 LOZENGES , 4 mg Each ( 3 Vials of 27 ) B101170 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
