Active Ingredient Magnesium citrate 1 . 745 g per fl oz Purpose Saline Laxative Use • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) .
• Generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium restricted diet • abdorominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking any other drug .
• Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
if pregnant or breast - feeding ask health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Store at temperatures between 46 ° and 86 ° F ( 8 ° and 30 ° C ) Directions • Shake well before using • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 6 . 5 to 10 fl oz maximum 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age - 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age - 2 to 3 fl oz in 24 hours maximum 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age - ask a doctor Other information • each fl oz contains : magnesium 295 mg • each fl oz contains : sodium 1 mg Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , citric acid , disodium EDTA , flavor , sucralose , water disclaimer PROUDLY DISTRIBUTED BY : VALU MERCHANDISERS , CO .
5000 KANSAS AVE KANSAS CITY , KS 66106 DO NOT USE IF TAMPER EVIDENT TWIST - OFF CAP IS MISSING , BROKEN OR SEPARATED FROM NECKRING Best Choice Magnesium CITRATE SALINE LAXATIVE • Relief of occasional cinstipation • For use as part of bowel cleansing system for surgery or exam preparation • Non - pasteurized Grape Flavor Alcohol Content 0 . 0013 % ( from flavoring ) 10 FL OZ ( 296 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
