ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Niacinamide 0 . 1 % , Adenosine 0 . 01 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Sodium Bicarbonate , Adipic Acid , Sodium Carbonate , Glucose , Sucrose , Citric Acid , Ascorbic Acid , PEG150 , Trehalose , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Biotin , Ri - boflavin , Citus Limon ( Lemon ) , Fruit Powder , Frgaria Ananassa ( Strawberry ) Fruit Powder , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Rosmarinus offcinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Panthenol , Camelia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Powder , Dipotassium Glycyr - rhizate , Fragrance , CI16185 , CI19140 , CI15985 , CI142090 PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Brightening & Anti wrinkle WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only .
Please avoid contact with eyes .
Please don ’ t spray on irritated skin or areas with open wound .
Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear .
Don ’ t keep it in a damp bathroom .
Don ’ t keep it in the place with high or low temperature and keep away from direct sunlight .
Please keep out of reach of children Please replace the cap after use .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Uses Uses : MULBIT MEDIST is a tablet that contains fruit ingredients of lemon and strawberry and vitamin C , B2 and B3 .
The carbonic bubbles created while the tablet is being dissolved in water eliminate wastes from your skin , stimulating the skin and they cleanse and brighten your skin .
The fruit ingredients of lemon and strawberry and other ingredients such as vitamin , sucrose , trehalose and adenosine supply nutrients to your skin and moisturize , creating a thin moisturizing coat which makes your skin even moister .
Directions Directions : Fill 2 / 3 of the mist bottle with tepid water and put 2 vitamin tablets in it .
When the tablets are completely dissolved , close the cap and spray it over your face .
1 .
Fill 2 / 3 of the mist bottle with clean tepid water .
( If cold , it takes longer until dissolved . )
2 .
Put 2 vitamin tablets and let it dissolve completely then close the cap .
3 .
Spray it all over your face from 30 cm away .
4 .
Or apply it with your hand and let your skin absorb .
5 .
You can also wipe your face with a cotton pad soaked in the mist .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
