Phentermine Hydrochloride , USP 15 mg and 30 mg is indicated as a short - term ( a few weeks ) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise , behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg / m2 , or ≥ 27 kg / m2 in the presence of other risk factors ( e . g . , controlled hypertension , diabetes , hyperlipidemia ) .
Below is a chart of Body Mass Index ( BMI ) based on various heights and weights .
BMI is calculated by taking the patient ’ s weight , in kilograms ( kg ) , divided by the patient ’ s height , in meters ( m ) , squared .
Metric conversions are as follows : pounds ÷ 2 . 2 = kg ; inches x 0 . 0254 = meters .
91cf84db - figure - 01 The limited usefulness of agents of this class , including Phentermine hydrochloride , [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 2 ) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below .
Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose .
The usual adult dose is 15 mg to 30 mg at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
Administration of one capsule ( 30 mg ) daily has been found to be adequate in depression of the appetite for 12 to 14 hours .
Phentermine is not recommended for use in patients 16 years of age and under .
Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia .
Capsules containing 15 mg and 30 mg Phentermine Hydrochloride • History of cardiovascular disease ( e . g . , coronary artery disease , stroke , arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , uncontrolled hypertension ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity , or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines 5 . 1 Co - administration with Other Drug Products for Weight Loss Phentermine is indicated only as short - term ( a few weeks ) monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity .
The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss including prescribed drugs , over - the - counter preparations , and herbal products , or serotonergic agents such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( e . g . , fluoxetine , sertraline , fluvoxamine , paroxetine ) , have not been established .
Therefore , co - administration of phentermine and these drug products is not recommended .
5 . 2 Primary Pulmonary Hypertension Primary Pulmonary Hypertension ( PPH ) – a rare , frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine .
The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea .
Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema .
Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance .
Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new , unexplained symptoms of dyspnea , angina pectoris , syncope or lower extremity edema , and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension .
5 . 3 Valvular Heart Disease Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease , primarily affecting the mitral , aortic and / or tricuspid valves , has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss .
The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known .
The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out ; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone .
5 . 4 Development of Tolerance , Discontinuation in Case of Tolerance When tolerance to the anorectant effect develops , the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect ; rather , the drug should be discontinued .
5 . 5 Effect on the Ability to Engage in Potentially Hazardous Tasks Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
5 . 6 Risk of Abuse and Dependence Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) and other related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused .
The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
5 . 7 Usage with Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with Phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
5 . 8 Use in Patients with Hypertension Use caution in prescribing Phentermine for patients with even mild hypertension ( risk of increase in blood pressure ) .
5 . 9 Use in Patients on Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemic Medications for Diabetes Mellitus A reduction in insulin or oral hypoglycemic medications in patients with diabetes mellitus may be required .
7 . 1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of Phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis .
7 . 2 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction .
7 . 3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
7 . 4 Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category X Phentermine is contraindicated during pregnancy because weight loss offers no potential benefit to a pregnant woman and may result in fetal harm .
A minimum weight gain , and no weight loss , is currently recommended for all pregnant women , including those who are already overweight or obese , due to obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy .
Phentermine has pharmacologic activity similar to amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phentermine .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known if Phentermine is excreted in human milk ; however , other amphetamines are present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because pediatric obesity is a chronic condition requiring long - term treatment , the use of this product , approved for short - term therapy , is not recommended .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Phentermine was not studied in patients with renal impairment .
Based on the reported excretion of Phentermine in urine , exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering Phentermine to patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 . 1 Controlled Substance Phentermine is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to the amphetamines .
Amphetamines and other stimulant drugs have been extensively abused and the possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program .
9 . 3 Dependence Abuse of amphetamines and related drugs may be associated with intense psychological dependence and severe social dysfunction .
There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage of these drugs to many times than recommended .
Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration results in extreme fatigue and mental depression ; changes are also noted on the sleep EEG .
Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
A severe manifestation of chronic intoxication is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage .
10 . 1 Acute Overdosage Manifestations of acute overdosage include restlessness , tremor , hyperreflexia , rapid respiration , confusion , assaultiveness , hallucinations , and panic states .
Fatigue and depression usually follow the central stimulation .
Cardiovascular effects include arrhythmia , hypertension or hypotension , and circulatory collapse .
Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramps .
Overdosage of pharmacologically similar compounds has resulted in fatal poisoning usually terminates in convulsions and coma .
Management of acute phentermine hydrochloride intoxication is largely symptomatic and includes lavage and sedation with a barbiturate .
Experience with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is inadequate to permit recommendations in this regard .
Acidification of the urine increases phentermine excretion .
Intravenous phentolamine ( Regitine ® , CIBA ) has been suggested on pharmacologic grounds for possible acute , severe hypertension , if this complicates overdosage .
10 . 2 Chronic Intoxication Manifestations of chronic intoxication with anorectic drugs include severe dermatoses , marked insomnia , irritability , hyperactivity and personality changes .
The most severe manifestation of chronic intoxications is psychosis , often clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia .
See Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 3 ) .
Phentermine Hydrochloride USP has the chemical name of α , α - Dimethylphenethylamine hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : 91cf84db - figure - 02 Phentermine Hydrochloride is a white , odorless , hygroscopic , crystalline powder which is soluble in water and lower alcohols ; slightly soluble in chloroform and insoluble in ether .
Phentermine hydrochloride , an anorectic agent for oral administration , is available as : a ) powder - filled capsules containing 15 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 12 mg Phentermine ) or 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , gelatin , lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the 15 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 3 , FD & C Red # 40 , titanium dioxide and the 30 mg capsules contain D & C Yellow # 10 , FD & C Red # 3 , titanium dioxide .
b ) bead - filled capsules containing 30 mg Phentermine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 24 mg Phentermine ) and inactive ingredients : corn starch , sucrose , hypromellose , povidone , and talc .
In addition , the capsule contains FD & C blue # 1 / Brilliant blue FCF Aluminum Lake , D & C red # 28 and gelatin .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phentermine is a sympathomimetic amine with pharmacologic activity similar to the prototype drugs of this class used in obesity , amphetamine ( d - and dll - amphetamine ) .
Drugs of this class used in obesity are commonly known as “ anorectics ” or “ anorexigenics . ”
It has not been established that the primary action of such drugs in treating obesity is one of appetite suppression since other central nervous system actions , or metabolic effects , may also be involved .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Typical of amphetamines include central nervous system stimulation and elevation of blood pressure .
Tachyphylaxis and tolerance have been demonstrated with all drugs of this class in which these phenomena have been looked for .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following the administration of Phentermine , Phentermine reaches peak concentrations ( Cmax ) after 3 to 4 . 4 hours .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment Phentermine was not studied in patients with renal impairment .
The literature reported cumulative urinary excretion of phentermine under uncontrolled urinary pH conditions is 62 % to 85 % .
Exposure increases can be expected in patients with renal impairment .
Use caution when administering phentermine to patients with renal impairment .
Drug Interactions In a single - dose study comparing the exposures after oral administration of a combination capsule of 15 mg Phentermine and 92 mg topiramate to the exposures after oral administration of a 15 mg Phentermine capsule or a 92 mg topiramate capsule , there is no significant topiramate exposure change in the presence of Phentermine .
However , in the presence of topiramate , Phentermine Cmax and AUC increase 13 % and 42 % , respectively .
13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed with phentermine to determine the potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
In relatively short - term clinical trials , adult obese subjects instructed in dietary management and treated with “ anorectic ” drugs lost more weight on the average than those treated with placebo and diet .
The magnitude of increased weight loss of drug - treated patients over placebo - treated patients is only a fraction of a pound a week .
The rate of weight loss is greatest in the first weeks of therapy for both drug and placebo subjects and tends to decrease in succeeding weeks .
The possible origins of the increased weight loss due to the various drug effects are not established .
The amount of weight loss associated with the use of an “ anorectic ” drug varies from trial to trial , and the increased weight loss appears to be related in part to variables other than the drugs prescribed , such as the physician - investigator , the population treated and the diet prescribed .
Studies do not permit conclusions as to the relative importance of the drug and non - drug factors on weight loss .
The natural history of obesity is measured over several years , whereas the studies cited are restricted to a few weeks ’ duration ; thus , the total impact of drug - induced weight loss over that of diet alone must be considered clinically limited .
Phentermine Hydrochloride capsules , USP are available as follows : Phentermine Hydrochloride capsules , USP 15 mg are supplied as gray opaque cap , rich yellow opaque body with black imprint “ K 26 ” on both the cap and body , filled with powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
