1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium chloride extended - release is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient .
Potassium chloride extended - release is a potassium salt , indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
( 2 . 1 ) • If serum potassium is less than 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
( 2 . 1 ) • Take with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid .
Swallow tablets whole without crushing , chewing or sucking .
( 2 . 1 ) • Treatment of hypokalemia : Doses range from 40 to 100 mEq / day in divided doses .
Limit doses to 40 mEq per dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • Prevention of hypokalemia : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Administration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is less than 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
Monitor serum potassium periodically during maintenance therapy to ensure potassium remains in desired range .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis , requires careful attention to acid - base balance , volume status , electrolytes , including magnesium , sodium , chloride , phosphate , and calcium , electrocardiograms , and the clinical status of the patient .
Correct volume status , acid - base balance , and electrolyte deficits as appropriate .
Administration Take potassium chloride extended - release tablets with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid .
Do not take potassium chloride extended - release tablets on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Swallow tablets whole without crushing , chewing or sucking .
2 . 2 Dosing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient .
Dosages greater than 40 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 40 mEq is given in a single dose .
Treatment of Hypokalemia : Typical dose range is 40 to 100 mEq per day .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose range is 20 mEq per day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Potassium chloride extended - release tablets are supplied as : 600 mg ( 8 mEq ) are film - coated , round light blue tablets debossed with " KC 8 " .
750 mg ( 10 mEq ) are film - coated , round yellow tablets debossed with " KC 10 " .
Tablets : 600 mg ( 8 mEq ) and 750 mg ( 10 mEq ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on triamterene and amiloride .
• Concomitant use with triamterene and amiloride ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Gastrointestinal Irritation : Take with meals .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride can produce ulcerative and / or stenotic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract , particularly if the drug maintains contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa for prolonged periods .
Consider the use of liquid potassium in patients with dysphagia , swallowing disorders , or severe gastrointestinal motility disorders .
If severe vomiting , abdominal pain , distention , or gastrointestinal bleeding occurs , discontinue potassium chloride extended - release tablets and consider possibility of ulceration , obstruction or perforation .
Potassium chloride extended - release tablets should not be taken on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified with use of oral potassium salts .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
There have been reports hyperkalemia and of upper and lower gastrointestinal condition including obstruction , bleeding , ulceration , perforation .
Skin rash has been reported rarely .
• The most common adverse reactions are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort and diarrhea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Upsher - Smith Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 855 - 899 - 9180 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Triamterene and amiloride : Concomitant use is contraindicated ( 7 . 1 ) • Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone inhibitors : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 2 ) • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Triamterene or amiloride Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Concomitant use is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant RAAS inhibitors .
7 . 3 Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) NSAIDs may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Cirrhosis : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 6 ) • Renal Impairment : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no human data related to use of potassium chloride extended - release during pregnancy , and animal reproduction studies have not been conducted .
Potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia is not expected to cause fetal harm .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since oral potassium becomes part of the body potassium pool , so long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of potassium chloride extended - release did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Cirrhotics Based on published literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
Patients with cirrhosis should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range , and the serum potassium level should be monitored frequently [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment have reduced urinary excretion of potassium and are at substantially increased risk of hyperkalemia .
Patients with impaired renal function , particularly if the patient is on RAAS inhibitors or NSAIDs , should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range because of the potential for development of hyperkalemia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
The serum potassium level should be monitored frequently .
Renal function should be assessed periodically .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired , potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result [ see Contraindications and Warnings ] .
It is important to recognize that hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 mEq / L to 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - wave , depression of S - T segment and prolongation of the QT interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to 12 mEq / L ) .
10 . 2 Treatment Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : • Elimination of foods and medications containing potassium and of any agents with potassium - sparing properties .
• Intravenous administration of 300 mL / hr to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1 , 000 mL .
• Correction of acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
• Use of exchange resins , hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis .
In treating hyperkalemia , it should be recalled that in patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
The extended - release feature means that absorption and toxic effects may be delayed for hours .
Consider standard measures to remove any unabsorbed drug .
11 DESCRIPTION Potassium chloride extended - release tablets , USP are a solid oral dosage form of potassium chloride .
Each contains 600 mg or 750 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 8 mEq or 10 mEq of potassium in a wax matrix tablet .
Potassium chloride extended - release tablets , USP , are an electrolyte replenisher .
The chemical name is potassium chloride , and the structural formula is KCl .
Potassium chloride , USP is a white , granular powder or colorless crystals .
It is odorless and has a saline taste .
Its solutions are neutral to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol .
Inactive Ingredients : Hydrogenated vegetable oil , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , silicon dioxide , talc and titanium dioxide .
Yellow tablets also contain D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
Blue tablets also contain FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The potassium ion is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity , the transmission of nerve impulses , the contraction of cardiac , skeletal and smooth muscle and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 mEq to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 mEq to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent and under steady state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The potassium chloride in potassium chloride extended - release is completely absorbed before it leaves the small intestine .
The wax matrix is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces ; in some instances the empty matrices may be noticeable in the stool .
When the bioavailability of the potassium ion from the potassium chloride extended - release is compared to that of a true solution the extent of absorption is similar .
The extended - release properties of potassium chloride extended - release are demonstrated by the finding that a significant increase in time is required for renal excretion of the first 50 % of the Potassium chloride extended - release dose as compared to the solution .
Increased urinary potassium excretion is first observed 1 hour after administration of potassium chloride extended - release , reaches a peak at approximately 4 hours , and extends up to 8 hours .
Mean daily steady - state plasma levels of potassium following daily administration of potassium chloride extended - release tablets cannot be distinguished from those following administration of potassium chloride solution or from control plasma levels of potassium ion .
Specific Populations Cirrhotics Based on published literature , the baseline corrected serum concentrations of potassium measured over 3 hours after administration in cirrhotic subjects who received an oral potassium load rose to approximately twice that of normal subjects who received the same load .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and fertility studies in animals have not been performed .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Potassium chloride extended - release tablets , USP contains 600 mg or 750 mg of potassium chloride ( equivalent to 8 mEq or 10 mEq of potassium respectively ) .
750 mg ( 10 mEq ) Yellow , Round , Tablet , KC , 10 NDC : 70518 - 2313 - 00 NDC : 70518 - 2313 - 01 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 90 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight container with a child - resistant closure .
Keep tightly closed .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients to take each dose with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid , and to not crush , chew , or suck the tablets .
Inform patients that the wax matrix is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces ; in some instances , the empty matrices may be noticeable in the stool .
• Advise patients seek medical attention if tarry stools or other evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding is noticed .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL DRUG : Potassium Chloride GENERIC : Potassium Chloride DOSAGE : TABLET , FILM COATED , EXTENDED RELEASE ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 2313 - 0 NDC : 70518 - 2313 - 1 COLOR : yellow SHAPE : ROUND SCORE : No score SIZE : 13 mm IMPRINT : KC ; 10 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK PACKAGING : 90 in 1 BOTTLE PLASTIC ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • potassium chloride 750 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • hydrogenated cottonseed oil • magnesium stearate • POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL , UNSPECIFIED • POLYVINYL ALCOHOL , UNSPECIFIED • silicon dioxide • talc • titanium Dioxide • D & C YELLOW NO . 10 • FD & C YELLOW NO . 6 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
