Active Ingredient Menthol 10 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses ● temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : ● arthritis ● simple backache ● strains ● bruises ● sprains ● provides cooling penetrating relief Warnings For external use only .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eye , flush with water for 15 minutes .
Do not use ● with other topical pain relievers ● with heating pads or heating devices When using this product ● do not use in or near the eyes ● do not apply to wounds or damaged skin ● do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ● clean affected area before applying product ● hold can at an angle and press nozzle lightly ● dispense onto hand and then apply to target area ● wipe nozzle clean after each use ● replace the overcap after each use ● adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily ● children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information ● store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ● do not store at temperatures above 50 ° C Inactive Ingredients Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetyl Alcohol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Ethanol , Isobutane , Phenoxyethanol , Purified Water , Sodium Chloride , Vinyl Caprolactam / VP / Dimethylaminoethyl Methacrylate Copolymer Questions Call 1 - 833 - 279 - 6522 Additional Information Listed on Other Panels © 2020 Crown Laboratories , Inc .
Distributed by : Crown Laboratories , Inc .
Johnson City , TN 37604 Made in USA P11842 . 00 DOT 2 Q M5706 Mineral Ice Quick Dry Foam - 4 oz Canister Label NDC 0316 - 0290 - 04 NEW ORIGINAL THERAPEUTIC Mineral Ice QUICK DRY FOAM MENTHOL PAIN RELIEVING FOAM MAXIMUM STRENGTH Greaseless with DEEPCOLD Pain Reliever Net wt .
4 oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
