Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Purpose Neomycin sulfate 3 . 5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B sulfate 10 , 000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine hydrochloride 10 mg External analgesic Uses First aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor : • cuts • scrapes • burns Warnings For external use only .
Not for prolonged use .
Do not use • in the eyes , nose , or over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition persists for more than 7 days , gets worse , or clears up and occurs again within a few days • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • redness , irritation , swelling , or pain persists or increases If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • the affected area may be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON TUBE IS PUNCTURED OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients cetearyl alcohol , methylparaben , mineral oil , petrolatum , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 DISTRIBUTED BY : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 14 . 2 g Tube Carton NDC 49035 - 847 - 05 equate ™ Compare to Neosporin ® + Pain Relief Active Ingredients * Maximum Strength Antibiotic Cream + Pain Relief Neomycin Sulfate , Polymyxin B Sulfate , Pramoxine HCl First Aid Antibiotic / Pain Relieving Cream • Soothes painful cuts , scrapes and burns while preventing infection Made in the USA Factory Certified NET WT 0 . 5 OZ ( 14 . 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
