Acvtive ingredients : ( in 10 ml ) Purpose Acetaminophen 200 mg ............................. Analgesic Dextromethorphan HBr 13 . 33 mg ................... Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg ................................... Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg ............................. Decongestant Purpose Analgesic Cough Suppressant Expectorant Decongestant Uses • For temporary relief of bronchial and nasal congestion • Help loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes and make cough more productive .
• Teporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage Liver warning : This product contains Acetaminophen .
Sever liver damage may occur if • Adult takes more than 6 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • Child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • Taken with other drugs containing Acetaminophen • Adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product • Do not give to children under 3 years of age or use for more than 10 days unless directed by a physician Do not use • If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
• if you do not know if your prescription drug contains on MAOI ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking this product • if you have a chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath unless directed by a doctor • avoid alcoholic beverages while you are taking this product • do not use with any other drug containing Acetaminophen ( prescirption or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains Acetaminophen , ask a doctor or a pharmacist .
Ask the doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • heart disease , high blood pressure , thyroid disease , or difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of prostate gland .
• The user has liver disease • The user is taking the blood thinning drug Warfarin .
Stop use and ask the doctor if • Nervoisness , dizziness or sleeplessness occurs .
• Cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be sign of a serious condition If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period Age Dose Adults and children 12 years and over 10 mL ( 2 tsps ) every 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years of age .
5 mL ( 1 tsps ) every 6 hours Children under 6 years of age Do not use Inactive ingredients Aloe vera , citric acid , disodium EDTA , FD & C Red # 40 , hydroxyethyl cellulose , natural strawberry flavor , propylene glycol , water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol 70 % , sucralose [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
