SODIUM FLUORIDE 5000 ppm Sensitive toothpaste Rx ONLY DESCRIPTION : Self - topical neutral fluoride toothpaste containing 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) sodium fluoride and 5 % potassium nitrate .
Active Ingredients : Sodium Fluoride 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) Potassium Nitrate 5 % Inactive Ingredients : Blue 1 , Carrageenan , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Flavor , Hydrated Silica , Mica , PEG - 12 , Poloxamer 407 , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium Laurryl Sulfate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Titanium Dioxide , Water ( purified ) , Yellow 10 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Frequent topical applications to the teeth with preparations having a relatively high fluoride content increase tooth resistance to acid dissolution and enhance penetration of the fluoride ion into tooth enamel .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : A dental caries preventive and sensitive toothpaste ; for twice daily self - applied topical use , following by rinsing , helps reduce the painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acid , sweets or contact in adults patients and children 12 years of age and older .
It is well established that 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators . 1 - 4 Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sensitive 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride toothpaste with 5 % potassium nitrate in a squeeze - tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush .
This prescription toothpaste should be used twice daily in place of your regular toothpaste , unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional .
May be used whether or not drinking water is fluoridated , since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis .
( See WARNINGS for exception . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Do not use in pediatric patients under age 12 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
WARNINGS : Not for systemic treatment - Do not Swallow .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Children under 12 years of age , consult a dentist or physician .
Note : Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
See your dentist if the problem persists or worsens .
Do not use this product longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
PRECAUTIONS : General not for systemic treatment .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats , males or females , treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological data provide no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water , and risk of human cancer .
Fluoride ion is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shown that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those to which humans are exposed .
In vivo data are conflicting .
Some studies report chromosome damage in rodents , while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B .
It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not a teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis , which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when products containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduced milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Please refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sheffield Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1087 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nausea , vomitting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis , and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , give calcium ( e . g . milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( i . e . more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , induce vomitting , give orally soluble calcium ( e . g . milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( i . e . more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomitting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( a thin ribbon ) of Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sensitive contains approximately 2 . 5 mg fluoride .
A 3 . 4 FLOZ ( 100 ml ) tube contains approximately 575 mg fluoride .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional : • Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older , apply at least a 1 inch strip of Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sensitive onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute , expectorate , and rinse mouth thoroughly .
• Use twice daily , ( morning and evening ) or as recommended by dentist or physician .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Children under 12 years of age : consultant a dentist or physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Mild Mint 3 . 4 floz .
( 100 ml ) net wt .
tube NDC # 11527 - 704 - 42 STORAGE : Store at Controlled Room Temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
REFERENCES : • American Dental Association , Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed .
40 , Chicago , ADA , 405 - 407 ( 1984 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , JADA , 75 , 638 - 644 ( 1967 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , JADA , 78 , 783 - 787 ( 1969 ) .
• H . R . Englander et al . , JADA , 82 , 354 - 358 ( 1971 ) .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 ml Tube Wentworth NDC 11527 - 704 - 42 Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm MILD MINT Sensitive 1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride , 5 % Potassium Nitrate Prescription Strength toothpaste for Sensitive Teeth 3 . 4 FLOZ ( 100 ml ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 ml Carton Wentworth NDC 11527 - 704 - 42 Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm MILD MINT Sensitive 1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride , 5 % Potassium Nitrate Prescription Strength toothpaste for Sensitive teeth 3 . 4 FLOZ ( 100 ml ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
