Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc Oxide 22 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Apply liberally to face and body 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying , and at least every 2 hours .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures .
• Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
• To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF 15 value or higher along with other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . , wear long sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other information • May stain some fabrics .
• Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients Argania Spinosa Kernel Oil , Beeswax , Bisabolol , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Copernicia Cerifera ( Carnauba ) Wax , Euphorbia Cerifera ( Candelilla ) Wax , Octyldodecanol , Persea Gratissima ( Avocado ) Oil , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 626 - 599 - 3700 Monday – Friday 9 AM – 5 PM PST Non - Nano Zinc Oxide BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Fragrance Free PABA Free Our Mineral Sunscreen Stick is formulated with natural mineral zinc oxide to protect skin from sun exposure and sunburn .
Our stick formula glides on smoothly with added coconut and avocado oils and natural waxes to moisturize .
Featuring a compact design , this twist up stick offers easy , quick application on - the - go .
Water - resistant up to 80 minutes for continued protection in and out of the water .
Fragrance free , PABA free and formula never tested on animals .
DIST .
& SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY : TRADER JOE ’ S , MONROVIA , CA 91016 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
