Contraindications ( 4 ) 02 / 2022 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 02 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metaxalone Tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Metaxalone is a muscle relaxant indicated in adult and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is one 640 mg tablet three to four times a day .
The recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is one 640 mg tablet three to four times a day .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Metaxalone Tablet is available as a 640 mg oval , peach - colored tablet , debossed on one side with M640 and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 640 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Metaxalone Tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Known hypersensitivity to any components of this product .
• Known tendency to drug - induced , hemolytic , or other anemias .
• Patients with severely impaired renal or hepatic function .
• Known hypersensitivity to any components of this product .
( 4 ) • Known tendency to drug induced , hemolytic , or other anemias .
( 4 ) • Patients with severely impaired renal or hepatic functions .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serotonin Syndrome : Cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range and with metaxalone as a single agent taken at doses higher than the recommended dose .
( 5 . 1 ) • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depression : Metaxalone Tablets may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , and may enhance the effects of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatic and Renal Impairment : Metaxalone Tablets should be administered with caution to patients with mild to moderate hepatic and renal impairment .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range [ See Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] and with metaxalone as a single agent taken at doses higher than the recommended dose [ See Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , triptans , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , opioids ( particularly fentanyl , meperidine , and methadone ) , drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system ( e . g . , mirtazapine , trazodone , tramadol ) , and drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin ( including monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others , such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue ) [ See Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperreflexia , incoordination , rigidity ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
The onset of symptoms generally occurs within several hours to a few days , but may occur later than that .
Discontinue Metaxalone Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
5 . 2 Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Depression Metaxalone Tablets may enhance the effects of alcohol and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) and may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , especially when used with alcohol or other CNS depressants .
Therefore , Metaxalone Tablets should be used with caution in patients who take one or more of these CNS depressants .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Elderly patients may be especially susceptible to CNS effects .
5 . 3 Hepatic and Renal Impairment Patients Metaxalone Tablets are metabolized by the liver and excreted in the urine .
Use caution when administering Metaxalone Tablets in patients with mild to moderate hepatic or renal impairment .
Consider monitoring of liver and renal function in these patients .
Metaxalone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic or renal impairment [ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent reactions to Metaxalone Tablets include : CNS : drowsiness , dizziness , headache , and nervousness or “ irritability ” , Digestive : nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset .
Other adverse reactions are : Immune System : hypersensitivity reaction , rash with or without pruritus , Hematologic : leucopenia ; hemolytic anemia , Hepatobiliary : jaundice .
CNS : cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range and with metaxalone as a single agent taken at doses higher than the recommended dose [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with metaxalone .
The most common adverse reactions to Metaxalone Tablets include drowsiness , dizziness , headache , and nervousness or “ irritability ” , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset .
( 6 ) Serotonin Syndrome : a potentially life - threatening condition , has been reported during concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range and with metaxalone as a single agent taken at doses higher than the recommended dose .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Primus Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 526 - 4040 and www . primusrx . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Metaxalone Tablets and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) may be additive .
Therefore , caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously .
Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
If concomitant use is warranted , carefully observe the patient , particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment .
Discontinue Metaxalone Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
Examples of serotonergic drugs include : selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , triptans , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , opioids ( particularly fentanyl , meperidine , and methadone ) , drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system ( e . g . , mirtazapine , trazodone , tramadol ) , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others , such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue ) .
CNS depressants : Use with caution .
The sedative effects of Metaxalone Tablets and other CNS depressants ( e . g . , alcohol , benzodiazepines , opioids , tricyclic antidepressants ) may be additive .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on metaxalone use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes despite decades of metaxalone use .
Reproduction studies in rats have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to fetus due to metaxalone .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of metaxalone or its metabolite in either human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for metaxalone and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from metaxalone or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children 12 years of age and below have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of Metaxalone Tablets have not been evaluated .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic studies using Metaxalone Tablets have not been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Since metaxalone undergoes hepatic metabolism , Metaxalone Tablets should be used with caution in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
Metaxalone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 8 . 7 Renal Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic studies using Metaxalone Tablets have not been conducted in patients with renal impairment .
Since metaxalone is excreted in the urine as unidentified metabolites , Metaxalone Tablets should be used with caution in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment .
Metaxalone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE Deaths by deliberate or accidental overdose have occurred with metaxalone , particularly in combination with antidepressants , and have been reported with this class of drug in combination with alcohol .
Serotonin syndrome has been reported when metaxalone was used at doses higher than the recommended dose [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Treatment – Gastric lavage and supportive therapy .
Consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Metaxalone Tablet is a muscle relaxant available as a 640 mg oval , peach - colored tablet , debossed on one side with M640 and plain on the other side .
The tablets are for oral administration .
Each tablet contains 640 mg metaxalone and the following inactive ingredients : alginic acid , FD & C yellow # 6 , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , propylene glycol alginate and povidone .
Chemically , metaxalone is 5 - [ ( 3 , 5 - dimethylphenoxy ) methyl ] - 2 - oxazolidinone .
The empirical formula is C12H15NO3 , which corresponds to a molecular weight of 221 . 25 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metaxalone is a white to almost white , odorless crystalline powder freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in methanol and in 96 % ethanol , but practically insoluble in ether or water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of metaxalone in humans has not been established , but may be due to general central nervous system depression .
Metaxalone has no direct action on the contractile mechanism of striated muscle , the motor end plate , or the nerve fiber .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a relative bioavailability study in healthy adult volunteers , the Cmax ( peak plasma concentration ) and AUC ( extent of absorption ) values of metaxalone from Metaxalone Tablets , 640 mg were found to be similar to those from Skelaxin ® 800 mg tablets .
After a single dose of Metaxalone Tablets , 640 mg , under fasted conditions , mean Cmax and AUC values were 2 mcg / mL and 16 mcg . h / mL , respectively .
The time - to - peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) occurred at 3 h ( range 1 . 5 - 12 h ) .
The plasma half - life in adult healthy subjects was about 5 hours after administration of Metaxalone Tablets .
Effect of Food : Compared to fasted condition , the presence of a high fat meal resulted in 23 % increase in Cmax with no change in AUC , and a Tmax of 8 h ( range 3 . 5 - 24 h ) .
Distribution Although plasma protein binding and absolute bioavailability of metaxalone are not known , the apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ~ 800 L ) and lipophilicity ( log P = 2 . 42 ) of metaxalone suggest that the drug is extensively distributed in the tissues .
Elimination Metabolism Hepatic Cytochrome P450 enzymes play a role in the metabolism of metaxalone .
Specifically , CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 and , to a lesser extent , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , AND CYP2C19 appear to metabolize metaxalone .
Metaxalone does not significantly inhibit major CYP enzymes such as CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E1 , and CYP3A4 .
Metaxalone does not significantly induce major CYP enzymes such as CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4 in vitro .
Excretion Metaxalone is metabolized by the liver and excreted in the urine as unidentified metabolites .
Specific Populations Age : The effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of Metaxalone Tablets have not been evaluated .
Gender : Females exhibited higher systemic exposure compared to males following administration of Metaxalone Tablets under fasted state in healthy volunteers .
The Cmax and AUC were both found to be about 40 % greater in females compared to males .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of metaxalone have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential of metaxalone have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Reproduction studies in rats have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to metaxalone .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy studies were not conducted with Metaxalone Tablets .
The efficacy of Metaxalone Tablets , 640 mg is based on demonstration of similar systemic exposures to the reference drug , Skelaxin ® 800 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metaxalone Tablets , 640 mg are available as oval , peach - colored tablets , debossed on one side with M640 and plain on the other side .
It is packaged as : Bottle of 100 tablets , NDC 68040 - 712 - 38 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Driving or Operating Heavy Machinery Advise patients that Metaxalone Tablets may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , especially when used with alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Elderly patients may be especially susceptible to CNS effects .
Serotonin Syndrome Inform patients that Metaxalone Tablets could cause a rare but potentially life - threatening condition resulting from administration of doses higher than the recommended dose or from concomitant administration of serotonergic drugs with Metaxalone Tablets used within the recommended dosage range .
Warn patients of the symptoms of serotonin syndrome and to seek medical attention right away if symptoms develop .
Instruct patients to inform their healthcare providers if they are taking , or plan to take , serotonergic medications .
21503 - 03 Rev 08 / 2022 1274C00 - 08 / 22 Distributed by : Primus Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Scottsdale , AZ 85253 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68040 - 712 - 38 Metaxalone Tablets 640 mg Rx Only SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
