1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by the organism Trichophyton rubrum .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is an allylamine antifungal indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by the organism Trichophyton rubrum .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin layer of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream once - daily to the affected areas plus a ½ inch margin of healthy surrounding skin for 2 weeks .
For topical use only .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) Apply a thin layer of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream once - daily to the affected areas plus a ½ inch margin of healthy surrounding skin for 2 weeks .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each gram of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream contains 20 mg of naftifine hydrochloride ( 2 % ) in a white to off - white base .
Cream : 2 % 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Discontinue treatment if redness or irritation develops with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream use .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Local Adverse Reactions Discontinue treatment if irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
Direct patients to contact their physician if these conditions develop following use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction ( ≥ 1 % ) is pruritus .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , at 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
During clinical trials , 903 subjects were exposed to naftifine 1 % and 2 % cream formulations .
A total of 564 subjects with interdigital tinea pedis , tinea cruris , or tinea corporis were treated with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
In two randomized , vehicle - controlled trials ( 400 subjects were treated with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream ) .
The population was 12 to 88 years old , primarily male ( 79 % ) , 48 % Caucasian , 36 % Black or African American , 40 % Hispanic or Latino and had either predominantly interdigital tinea pedis or tinea cruris .
Most subjects received doses once - daily , topically , for 2 weeks to cover the affected skin areas plus a ½ inch margin of surrounding healthy skin .
In the two vehicle - controlled trials , 17 . 5 % of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream treated subjects experienced an adverse reaction compared with 19 . 3 % of vehicle subjects .
The most common adverse reaction ( ≥ 1 % ) is pruritus .
Most adverse reactions were mild in severity .
The incidence of adverse reactions in the Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream treated population was not significantly different than in the vehicle treated population .
In a third randomized , vehicle - controlled trial , 116 pediatric subjects with tinea corporis were treated with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
The population was aged ≥ 2 to < 18 years ( mean age of 9 years ) , predominately male ( 61 % ) , 47 % White , 51 % Black or African American , 92 % Hispanic or Latino , and infected with tinea corporis .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream was topically applied once daily for 2 weeks to all affected body surface areas with tinea corporis plus a ½ inch margin of healthy skin surrounding the affected lesions .
The incidence of adverse reactions in the Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream treated population was not significantly different than in the vehicle treated population .
In two open - label pediatric pharmacokinetics and safety trials , 49 pediatric subjects 2 to < 18 years of age with interdigital tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis received Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
The incidence of adverse reactions in the pediatric population was similar to that observed in the adult population .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of naftifine hydrochloride : redness / irritation , inflammation , maceration , swelling , burning , blisters , serous drainage , crusting , headache , dizziness , leukopenia , agranulocytosis .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data with Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse effects on embryofetal development were seen at oral doses administered during the period of organogenesis up to 18 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in pregnant rats or subcutaneous doses administered during the period of organogenesis up to 2 times the MRHD in pregnant rats or 4 times the MRHD in pregnant rabbits [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
For the comparison of animal to human doses based on body surface area comparison ( mg / m2 ) , the MRHD is set at 8 g 2 % cream per day ( 2 . 67 mg / kg / day for a 60 kg individual ) .
Oral doses of 30 mg / kg / day , 100 mg / kg / day and 300 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rats .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal development were noted at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 18 times MRHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 10 mg / kg / day and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rats .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal development were noted at 30 mg / kg / day ( 2 times MRHD ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 3 mg / kg / day , 10 mg / kg / day and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rabbits .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal development were noted at 30 mg / kg / day ( 4 times MRHD ) .
A peri - and post - natal development study was conducted in rats .
Oral doses of 30 mg / kg / day , 100 mg / kg / day and 300 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered to female rats from gestational day 14 to lactation day 21 .
Reduced body weight gain of females during gestation and of the offspring during lactation was noted at 300 mg / kg / day ( 18 times MRHD ) .
No developmental toxicity was noted at 100 mg / kg / day ( 6 times MRHD ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream to an infant during lactation ; therefore , the development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream have been established in pediatric patients age 12 and above with interdigital tinea pedis and tinea cruris and age 2 and above with tinea corporis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well controlled studies in adults and children , with additional safety and PK data from two open label trials conducted in 49 pediatric subjects exposed to Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in the treatment of tinea cruris and interdigital tinea pedis in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age have not been established .
Safety and effectiveness of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in the treatment of tinea corporis in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is a white to off - white cream for topical use only .
Each gram of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream contains 20 mg of naftifine hydrochloride ( 2 % ) , a synthetic allylamine antifungal compound .
Chemically , naftifine HCl is ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - napthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C21H21N ∙ HCl with a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
The structural formula of naftifine hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream contains the following inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , hydrochloric acid , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , and stearyl alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is a topical antifungal drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream have not been established .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
The pharmacokinetics of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream was evaluated following once - daily topical application for 2 weeks to 21 adult subjects , both males and females , with both tinea pedis and tinea cruris .
The median total amount of cream applied was 6 . 4 g ( range 5 . 3 to 7 . 5 g ) per day .
The results showed that the systemic exposure ( i . e . , maximum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the curve from time 0 to 24 hours ( AUC0 - 24 ) ) to naftifine increased over the 2 week treatment period in all the 21 subjects .
Geometric mean ( coefficient of variation or CV % ) AUC0 - 24 was 117 ( 41 . 2 ) ng * hr / mL on Day 1 , and 204 ( 28 . 5 ) ng * hr / mL on Day 14 .
Geometric mean ( CV % ) Cmax was 7 ng / mL ( 55 . 6 ) on Day 1 and 11 ng / mL ( 29 . 3 ) on Day 14 .
Median time to Cmax ( Tmax ) was 8 hours ( range : 4 to 24 hours ) on Day 1 and 6 hours ( range : 0 to 16 hours ) on Day 14 .
Accumulation after 14 days of topical application was less than two fold .
Trough concentrations generally increased throughout the 14 day study period .
Naftifine continued to be detected in plasma in 13 / 21 ( 62 % ) subjects on Day 28 , the mean ( standard deviation or SD ) plasma concentrations were 1 . 6 ± 0 . 5 ng / mL ( range below limit of quantitation ( BLQ ) to 3 ng / mL ) .
In the same pharmacokinetic trial conducted in patients with tinea pedis and tinea cruris , median fraction of the dose excreted in urine during the treatment period was 0 . 0016 % on Day 1 versus 0 . 0020 % on Day 14 .
In a second trial that enrolled 22 subjects , the pharmacokinetics of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream was evaluated in 20 pediatric subjects 13 to < 18 years of age with both tinea pedis and tinea cruris .
Subjects were treated with a median dose of 8 . 1 g ( range 6 . 6 to 10 . 1 g ) applied to the affected areas once daily for 2 weeks .
The results showed that the systemic exposure increased over the treatment period .
Geometric mean ( CV % ) AUC0 - 24 was 138 ( 50 . 2 ) ng * hr / mL on Day 1 , and 192 ( 74 . 9 ) ng * hr / mL on Day 14 .
Geometric mean ( CV % ) Cmax was 9 . 21 ng / mL ( 48 . 4 ) on Day 1 and 12 . 7 ng / mL ( 67 . 2 ) on Day 14 .
Median fraction of the dose excreted in urine during the treatment period was 0 . 0030 % on Day 1 and 0 . 0033 % on Day 14 .
A third trial evaluated the pharmacokinetics of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream in 27 pediatric subjects 2 to < 12 years of age with at least moderate tinea corporis .
Subjects were divided into younger ( ages 2 to < 6 years , 17 subjects ) and older ( 6 to < 12 years , 10 subjects ) groups .
Median doses of 1 . 3 g ( range 1 to 3 . 1 g ) and 2 . 3 g ( range 2 . 2 to 4 . 2 g ) were applied once - daily for 2 weeks in the younger and older groups , respectively , to the affected area plus a ½ inch margin .
Plasma and urine pharmacokinetic assessments were conducted on Day 1 in the older group only and on Day 14 in both groups .
All subjects showed measurable levels of naftifine in plasma after topical application of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
Following a single dose on Day 1 in subjects 6 to < 12 years of age , the geometric mean ( CV % ) values of Cmax and AUC0 - 24 were 3 . 60 ( 76 . 6 ) ng / mL and 49 . 8 ( 64 . 4 ) ng * h / mL , respectively .
On Day 14 in this group , the Cmax and AUC0 - 24 were 3 . 31 ( 51 . 2 ) ng / mL and 52 . 4 ( 49 . 2 ) ng * h / mL , respectively .
In subjects 2 to < 6 years of age on Day 14 , the Cmax and AUC0 - 24 were 3 . 98 ( 186 ) ng / mL and 54 . 8 ( 150 ) ng * h / mL , respectively .
In the older group of subjects 6 to 12 years of age , the systemic exposures ( both Cmax and AUC0 - 24 ) on Days 1 and 14 were comparable .
The median fraction of the dose excreted into urine over 24 hours following drug applications on Day 1 and Day 14 was 0 . 0029 % and 0 . 0014 % , respectively .
12 . 4 Microbiology Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Mechanism of Resistance To date , a mechanism of resistance to naftifine has not been identified .
Naftifine has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following fungi , both in vitro and in clinical infections , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : • Trichophyton rubrum 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal carcinogenicity study , naftifine hydrochloride cream was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 1 % , 2 % and 3 % ( 10 mg / kg / day , 20 mg / kg / day , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 30 mg / kg / day ( 12 times MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Naftifine hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Oral administration of naftifine hydrochloride to rats , throughout mating , gestation , parturition and lactation , demonstrated no effects on growth , fertility or reproduction , at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 6 times MRHD based on mg / m2 comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Tinea Cruris Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream has been investigated for safety and efficacy in a randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , multi - center trial in 146 subjects with symptomatic and dermatophyte culture positive tinea cruris .
Subjects were randomized to receive Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or vehicle .
Subjects applied Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or vehicle to the affected area plus a ½ - inch margin of healthy skin surrounding the affected area once - daily for 2 weeks .
Signs and symptoms of tinea cruris ( presence or absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ) were assessed , and KOH examination and dermatophyte culture were performed at the primary efficacy endpoint at week 4 .
The mean age of the trial population was 47 years and 87 % were male and 43 % were white .
At baseline , subjects were confirmed to have signs and symptoms of tinea cruris , positive KOH exam , and confirmed dermatophyte presence based on culture results from a central mycology laboratory .
The analysis of the intent - to - treat population was a comparison of the proportions of subjects with a complete cure at the week 4 visit ( see Table 1 ) .
Complete cure was defined as both clinical cure ( absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ) and mycological cure ( negative KOH and dermatophyte culture ) .
The percentage of subjects experiencing clinical cure and the percentage of subjects experiencing mycological cure at week 4 are presented individually in Table 1 below .
Table 1 Efficacy Results for Tinea Cruris Trial ( Week 4 Assessment ) Endpoint Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream , 2 % N = 75 Vehicle N = 71 Complete Cure [ 1 ] 19 ( 25 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) Effective Treatment [ 2 ] 45 ( 60 % ) 7 ( 10 % ) Mycological Cure [ 3 ] 54 ( 72 % ) 11 ( 16 % ) [ 1 ] Complete cure is a composite endpoint of both mycological cure and clinical cure .
Clinical cure is defined as the absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ( grade of 0 ) .
[ 2 ] Effective treatment is a negative KOH preparation and negative dermatophyte culture , erythema , scaling , and pruritus grades of 0 or 1 ( absent or nearly absent ) .
[ 3 ] Mycological cure is defined as negative KOH and dermatophyte culture .
14 . 2 Interdigital Tinea Pedis Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream has been investigated for efficacy in a randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , multi - center trial in 217 subjects with symptomatic and dermatophyte culture positive interdigital tinea pedis .
Subjects were randomized to receive Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or vehicle .
Subjects applied Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or vehicle to the affected area of the foot plus a ½ - inch margin of healthy skin surrounding the affected area once - daily for 2 weeks .
Signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis ( presence or absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ) were assessed and KOH examination and dermatophyte culture was performed at the primary efficacy endpoint at week 6 .
The mean age of the trial population was 42 years and 71 % were male and 57 % were white .
At baseline , subjects were confirmed to have signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis , positive KOH exam , and confirmed dermatophyte culture .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportions of subjects with a complete cure at the week 6 visit ( see Table 2 ) .
Complete cure was defined as both a clinical cure ( absence of erythema , pruritis , and scaling ) and mycological cure ( negative KOH and dermatophyte culture ) .
The efficacy results at week 6 , four weeks following the end of treatment , are presented in Table 2 below .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream demonstrated complete cure in subjects with interdigital tinea pedis , but complete cure in subjects with only moccasin type tinea pedis was not demonstrated .
Table 2 Efficacy Results for Interdigital Tinea Pedis Trial ( Week 6 Assessment ) Endpoint Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream , 2 % N = 147 Vehicle N = 70 Complete Cure [ 1 ] 26 ( 18 % ) 5 ( 7 % ) Effective Treatment [ 2 ] 83 ( 57 % ) 14 ( 20 % ) Mycological Cure [ 3 ] 99 ( 67 % ) 15 ( 21 % ) [ 1 ] Complete cure is a composite endpoint of both mycological cure and clinical cure .
Clinical cure is defined as absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ( grade of 0 ) .
[ 2 ] Effective treatment is a negative KOH preparation and negative dermatophyte culture , erythema , scaling , and pruritus grades of 0 or 1 ( absent or near absent ) .
[ 3 ] Mycological cure is defined as negative KOH and dermatophyte culture .
14 . 3 Tinea Corporis Naftifine Hydochloride Cream has been investigated for safety and efficacy in a randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , multi - center trial in 184 subjects with symptomatic and dermatophyte culture positive tinea corporis .
Subjects were randomized to receive Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream or vehicle .
Subjects applied the study agent to all affected body surface areas with tinea corporis plus a ½ inch margin of healthy skin surrounding the affected lesions for two weeks .
Signs and symptoms of tinea corporis ( presence or absence of erythema , induration , and pruritus ) were assessed and KOH examination and dermatophyte culture were performed for the assessment of primary efficacy endpoint at Day 21 .
The trial population was pediatric ( ≥ 2 to < 18 years of age ) with a median age of 9 years ( Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream ) or 8 years ( vehicle ) ; 61 % of subjects were male and 45 % were white .
At baseline , subjects were confirmed to have signs and symptoms of tinea corporis , positive KOH exam , and confirmed dermatophyte culture .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportions of subjects with a complete cure at the Day 21 visit .
Complete cure was defined as both a clinical cure ( absence of erythema , induration , and pruritus on all lesions present at baseline ) and mycological cure ( negative KOH and dermatophyte culture ) .
The efficacy results at Day 21 , one week following the end of treatment , are presented in Table 3 below .
Table 3 Efficacy Results for Pediatric Tinea Corporis Trial ( Day 21 Assessment ) Endpoint Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream , 2 % N = 91 Vehicle N = 93 Complete Cure [ 1 ] 42 ( 46 % ) 26 ( 28 % ) Effective Treatment [ 2 ] 53 ( 58 % ) 32 ( 34 % ) Mycological Cure [ 3 ] 57 ( 63 % ) 36 ( 39 % ) [ 1 ] Complete cure is a composite endpoint of both mycological cure and clinical cure .
Clinical cure is defined as absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ( grade of 0 ) .
[ 2 ] Effective treatment is a negative KOH preparation and negative dermatophyte culture , erythema , induration , and pruritus grades of 0 or 1 ( absent or mild ) .
[ 3 ] Mycological cure is defined as negative KOH and dermatophyte culture .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 2 % is a white to off - white cream supplied in tubes in the following sizes : 30 g – NDC 51672 - 1368 - 2 45 g – NDC 51672 - 1368 - 6 60 g – NDC 51672 - 1368 - 3 Storage : Store Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 2 % at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients that Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is for topical use only .
Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream is not intended for oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
• If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be directed to contact their physician if these conditions develop following use of Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream .
Manufactured by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Distributed by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : May , 2018 PK - 7472 - 2 22 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Tube Carton NDC 51672 - 1368 - 2 30 g Naftifine Hydrochloride Cream USP , 2 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
