DESCRIPTION Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % is a nonselective beta - adrenoceptor blocking agent for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name for carteolol hydrochloride is ( ± ) - 5 - [ 3 - [ ( 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) amino ] - 2 - hydroxypropoxy ] - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 ( 1 H ) - quinolinone monohydrochloride .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C16H24N2O3 • HCI Mol .
Wt .
328 . 84 Each mL of sterile solution contains Active : carteolol hydrochloride 10 mg ( 1 % ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 05 mg ( 0 . 005 % ) .
Inactives : sodium chloride , monobasic and dibasic sodium phosphate , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH to 6 . 0 - 8 . 0 ) and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Carteolol is a nonselective beta - adrenergic blocking agent with associated intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and without significant membrane - stabilizing activity .
Carteolol Hydrochloride reduces normal and elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
The exact mechanism of the ocular hypotensive effect of beta - blockers has not been definitely demonstrated .
In general , beta - adrenergic blockers reduce cardiac output in patients in good and poor cardiovascular health .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - blockers may inhibit the sympathetic stimulation necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic blockers may also increase airway resistance in the bronchi and bronchioles due to unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Given topically twice daily in controlled domestic clinical trials ranging from 1 . 5 to 3 months , Carteolol Hydrochloride produced a median percent reduction of IOP 22 % to 25 % .
No significant effects were noted on corneal sensitivity , tear secretion , or pupil size .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 1 % has been shown to be effective in lowering intraocular pressure and may be used in patients with chronic open - angle glaucoma and intraocular hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other intraocular pressure lowering medications .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Carteolol is contraindicated in those individuals with bronchial asthma or with a history of bronchial asthma , or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( see WARNINGS ) ; sinus bradycardia ; second - and third - degree atrioventricular block ; overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) ; cardiogenic shock ; or hypersensivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS Carteolol has not been detected in plasma following ocular instillation .
However , as with other topically applied ophthalmic preparations , Carteolol may be absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported with topical application of beta - adrenergic blocking agents ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cardiac Failure : Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure : Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , Carteolol Hydrochloride should be discontinued .
Non - Allergic Bronchospasm : In patients with non - allergic bronchospasm or with a history of non - allergic bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) , Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be administered with caution since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous and exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta2 receptors .
Major Surgery : The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have been subject to protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may be appropriate .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of such agonists as isoproterenol , dopamine , dobutamine or levarterenol ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Diabetes Mellitus : Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS General Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to other beta - adrenoceptor blocking agents .
Use with caution in patients with known diminished pulmonary function .
In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This requires constricting the pupil with a miotic .
Carteolol has little or no effect on the pupil .
When Carteolol is used to reduce elevated intraocular pressure in angle - closure glaucoma , it should be used with a miotic and not alone .
Information to the Patient For topical use only .
To prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Protect from light .
Risk from Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis and generalized weakness ) .
Drug Interactions Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used with caution in patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally , because of the potential for additive effects on systemic beta - blockade .
Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carteolol hydrochloride did not produce carcinogenic effects at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day in two - year oral rat and mouse studies .
Test of mutagenicity , including the Ames Test , recombinant ( rec ) - assay , in vivo cytogenetics and dominant lethal assay demonstrated no evidence for mutagenic potential .
Fertility of male and female rats and male and female mice was unaffected by administration of carteolol hydrochloride dosages up to 150 mg / kg / day .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Carteolol hydrochloride increased resorptions and decreased fetal weights in rabbits and rats at maternally toxic doses approximately 1052 and 5264 times the maximum recommended human oral dose ( 10 mg / 70 kg / day ) , respectively .
A dose - related increase in wavy ribs was noted in the developing rat fetus when pregnant females received daily doses of approximately 212 times the maximum recommended human oral dose .
No such effects were noted in pregnant mice subjected to up to 1052 times the maximum recommended human oral dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , although in animal studies carteolol has been shown to be excreted in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is administered to nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution .
Ocular : Transient eye irritation , burning , tearing , conjunctival hyperemia and edema occurred in about 1 of 4 patients .
Ocular symptoms including blurred and cloudy vision , photophobia , decreased night vision , and ptosis and ocular signs including blepharoconjunctivitis , abnormal corneal staining , and corneal sensitivity occurred occasionally .
Systemic : As is characteristic of nonselective adrenergic blocking agents , Carteolol may cause bradycardia and decreased blood pressure ( See WARNINGS ) .
The following systemic events have occasionally been reported with the use of Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution : cardiac arrhythmia , heart palpitation , dyspnea , asthenia , headache , dizziness , insomnia , sinusitis , and taste perversion .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with ophthalmic use of beta1 and beta2 ( nonselective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agents : Body As a Whole : Headache Cardiovascular : Arrhythmia , syncope , heart block , cerebral vascular accident , cerebral ischemia , congestive heart failure , palpitation ( see WARNINGS ) .
Digestive : Nausea Psychiatric : Depression Skin : Hypersensitivity , including localized and generalized rash Respiratory : Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with pre - existing bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure ( see WARNINGS ) Endocrine : Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in insulin - dependent diabetics ( see WARNINGS ) Special Senses : Signs and symptoms of keratitis , blepharoptosis , visual disturbances including refractive changes ( due to withdrawal of miotic therapy in some cases ) , diplopia , ptosis .
Other reactions associated with the oral use of nonselective adrenergic receptor blocking agents should be considered potential effects with ophthalmic use of these agents .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information on emergency treatment of overdosage in humans is available .
Should accidental ocular overdosage occur , flush eye ( s ) with water or normal saline .
The most common effects expected with overdosage of a beta - adrenergic blocking agent are bradycardia , bronchospasm , congestive heart failure and hypotension .
In case of ingestion , treatment with Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be discontinued and gastric lavage considered .
The patient should be closely observed and vital signs carefully monitored .
The prolonged effects of carteolol must be considered when determining the duration of corrective therapy .
On the basis of the pharmacologic profile , the following additional measures should be considered as appropriate : Symptomatic Sinus Bradycardia or Heart Block : Administer atropine .
If there is no response to vagal blockade , administer isoproterenol cautiously .
Bronchospasm : Administer a beta2 - stimulating agent such as isoproterenol and / or a theophylline derivative .
Congestive Heart Failure : Administer diuretics and digitalis glycosides as necessary .
Hypotension : Administer vasopressors such as intravenous dopamine , epinephrine or norepinephrine bitartrate .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is one drop of Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 1 % in the affected eye ( s ) twice a day .
If the patient ' s IOP is not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or epinephrine or dipivefrin , and / or systemically administered carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , such as acetazolamide , can be instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP , 1 % is supplied as a sterile ophthalmic solution in plastic dispenser bottles of 5 mL ( NDC 61314 - 238 - 05 ) , 10 mL ( NDC 61314 - 238 - 10 ) and 15 mL ( NDC 61314 - 238 - 15 ) .
Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) ( room temperature ) and protect from light .
Manufactured by Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 300049856 - 0821 Rev . August 2021 Printed in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 61314 - 238 - 05 Carteolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 1 % Rx only STERILE 5 mL SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
