Sterile Rx only DESCRIPTION Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) for ophthalmic use .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 5 - benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - l , 3 - propanediol ( 1 : 1 ) and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula of Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is C15H13NO3 • C4H11NO3 .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is supplied as a sterile isotonic aqueous 0 . 5 % solution , with a pH of 7 . 4 .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is a racemic mixture of R - ( + ) and S - ( - ) - ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine may exist in three crystal forms .
All forms are equally soluble in water .
The pKa of ketorolac is 3 . 5 .
This white to off - white crystalline substance discolors on prolonged exposure to light .
The molecular weight of ketorolac tromethamine is 376 . 41 .
The osmolality of Ketorolac Ophthalmic Solution is 290 mOsml / kg .
Each mL of Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution contains : Active : ketorolac tromethamine 0 . 5 % Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % Inactives : edetate disodium 0 . 1 % ; octoxynol 40 ; sodium chloride ; hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust the pH ( 6 . 8 - 7 . 4 ) and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug which , when administered systemically , has demonstrated analgesic , anti - inflammatory , and anti - pyretic activity .
The mechanism of its action is thought to be due to its ability to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis .
Ketorolac tromethamine given systemically does not cause pupil constriction .
Prostaglandins have been shown in many animal models to be mediators of certain kinds of intraocular inflammation .
In studies performed in animal eyes , prostaglandins have been shown to produce disruption of the blood - aqueous humor barrier , vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , leukocytosis , and increased intraocular pressure .
Prostaglandins also appear to play a role in the miotic response produced during ocular surgery by constricting the iris sphincter independently of cholinergic mechanisms .
Two drops ( 0 . 1 mL ) of 0 . 5 % Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution instilled into the eyes of patients 12 hours and 1 hour prior to cataract extraction achieved measurable levels .
In 8 of 9 patients ' eyes ( mean ketorolac concentration 95 ng / mL aqueous humor , range 40 to 170 ng / mL ) .
Ocular administration of ketorolac tromethamine reduces prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) levels in aqueous humor .
The mean concentration of PGE2 was 80 pg / mL in the aqueous humor of eyes receiving vehicle and 28 pg / mL in the eyes receiving ketorolac ophthalmic solution , 0 . 5 % .
One drop ( 0 . 05 mL ) of 0 . 5 % Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution was instilled into one eye and one drop of vehicle into the other eye TID in 26 normal subjects .
Only 5 of 26 subjects had a detectable amount of ketorolac in their plasma ( range 10 . 7 to 22 . 5 ng / mL ) at Day 10 during topical ocular treatment .
When ketorolac tromethamine 10 mg is administered systemically every 6 hours , peak plasma levels at steady state are around 960 ng / mL .
Two controlled clinical studies showed that Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution was significantly more effective than its vehicle in relieving ocular itching caused by seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
Two controlled clinical studies showed that patients treated for two weeks with Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution were less likely to have measurable signs of inflammation ( cell and flare ) than patients treated with its vehicle .
Results from clinical studies indicate that ketorolac tromethamine has no significant effect upon intraocular pressure ; however , changes in intraocular pressure may occur following cataract surgery .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for the temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is also indicated for the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation .
WARNINGS There is the potential for cross - sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid , phenylacetic acid derivatives , and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents .
Therefore , caution should be used when treating individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
With some nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , there exists the potential for increased bleeding time due to interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
There have been reports that ocularly applied nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs may cause increased bleeding of ocular tissues ( including hyphemas ) in conjunction with ocular surgery .
PRECAUTIONS General : All topical nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may slow or delay healing .
Topical corticosteroids are also known to slow or delay healing .
Concomitant use of topical NSAIDS and topical steroids may increase the potential for healing problems .
Use of topical NSAIDs may result in keratitis .
In some susceptible patients , continued use of topical NSAIDs may result in epithelial breakdown , corneal thinning , corneal erosion , corneal ulceration or corneal perforation .
These events may be sight threatening .
Patients with evidence of corneal epithelial breakdown should immediately discontinue use of topical NSAIDs and should be closely monitored for corneal health .
Postmarketing experience with topical NSAIDs suggests that patients with complicated ocular surgeries , corneal denervation , corneal epithelial defects , diabetes mellitus , ocular surface diseases ( e . g . , dry eye syndrome ) , rheumatoid arthritis , or repeat ocular surgeries within a short period of time may be at increased risk for corneal adverse events which may become sight threatening .
Topical NSAIDs should be used with caution in these patients .
Postmarketing experience with topical NSAIDs also suggests that use more than 24 hours prior to surgery or use beyond 14 days post - surgery may increase patient risk for the occurrence and severity of corneal adverse events .
It is recommended that Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution be used with caution in patients with known bleeding tendencies or who are receiving other medications which may prolong bleeding time .
Information for Patients : Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Ketorolac tromethamine was not carcinogenic in rats given up to 5 mg / kg / day orally for 24 months ( 151 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals ) nor in mice given 2 mg / kg / day orally for 18 months ( 60 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in vitro in the Ames assay or in forward mutation assays .
Similarly , it did not result in an in vitro increase in unscheduled DNA synthesis or an in vivo increase in chromosome breakage in mice .
However , ketorolac tromethamine did result in an increased incidence in chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Ketorolac tromethamine did not impair fertility when administered orally to male and female rats at doses up to 272 and 484 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , respectively , on a mg / kg basis , assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Ketorolac tromethamine , administered during organogenesis , was not teratogenic in rabbits or rats at oral doses up to 109 times and 303 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , respectively , on a mg / kg basis assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals .
When administered to rats after Day 17 of gestation at oral doses up to 45 times the maximum recommended human topical ophthalmic dose , respectively , on a mg / kg basis assuming 100 % absorption in humans and animals , ketorolac tromethamine resulted in dystocia and increased pup mortality .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Because of the known effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of the ductus arteriosus ) , the use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 3 have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse events reported with the use of ketorolac ophthalmic solution have been transient stinging and burning on instillation .
These events were reported by up to 40 % of patients participating in clinical trials .
Other adverse events occurring approximately 1 % - 10 % of the time during treatment with ketorolac ophthalmic solution including allergic reactions , corneal edema , iritis , ocular inflammation , ocular irritation , superficial keratitis , and superficial ocular infections .
Other adverse events reported rarely with the use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solutions included corneal infiltrates , corneal ulcer , eye dryness , headaches , and visual disturbance ( blurry vision ) .
Clinical Practice : The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to topical ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % , or a combination of these factors , including corneal erosion , corneal perforation , corneal thinning and epithelial breakdown ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is one drop ( 0 . 25 mg ) four times a day for relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
For the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction , one drop of Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution should be applied to the affected eye ( s ) four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution has been safely administered in conjunction with other ophthalmic medications such as antibiotics , beta blockers , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , cycloplegics , and mydriatics .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketorolac Tromethamine Ophthalmic Solution is supplied sterile in white LDPE plastic bottles with natural droppers and gray short skirt caps as follows : 3 mL in 10 mL bottle - NDC 17478 - 209 - 19 5 mL in l0 mL bottle - NDC 17478 - 209 - 10 10 mL in 10 mL bottle - NDC 17478 - 209 - 11 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Rx only Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 KR00N Rev . 07 / 09 KETOROLAC TROM OS 0 . 5 % 3 mL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] KETOROLAC TROM OS 0 . 5 % 5 mL LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
