• Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) --- 3 / 2012 • Contraindications , Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 1 ) --- 3 / 2012 • Warnings and Precautions , Spread of Localized Infections ( 5 . 1 ) --- 3 / 2012 • Warnings and Precautions , Ocular Damage ( 5 . 2 ) --- 3 / 2012 • Warnings and Precautions , Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration ( 5 . 3 ) --- 3 / 2012 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amphadase ® is indicated as an adjuvant • in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration ( 1 . 1 ) • to increase absorption and dispersion of other injected drugs ( 1 . 2 ) • in subcutaneous urography for improving resorption of radiopaque agents ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration Amphadase ® is indicated as an adjuvant in subcutaneous fluid administration for achieving hydration .
1 . 2 Dispersion and Absorption of Injected Drugs Amphadase ® is indicated as an adjuvant to increase the dispersion and absorption of other injected drugs .
1 . 3 Subcutaneous Urography Amphadase ® is indicated as an adjunct in subcutaneous urography for improving resorption of radiopaque agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
• Subcutaneous Fluid Administration Insert needle with aseptic precautions .
With tip lying free and movable between skin and muscle , begin clysis ; fluid should start in readily without pain or lump .
Then inject Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) into rubber tubing close to needle .
( 2 . 1 ) • Absorption and Dispersion of Injected Drugs Absorption and dispersion of other injected drugs may be enhanced by adding 50 - 300 Units , most typically 150 U hyaluronidase , to the injection solution .
( 2 . 2 ) • Subcutaneous Urography The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic contrast media is indicated when intravenous administration cannot be successfully accomplished , particularly in infants and small children .
With the patient prone , 75 U of Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) is injected subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Subcutaneous Fluid Administration ( Hypodermoclysis ) Insert needle with aseptic precautions .
With tip lying free and movable between skin and muscle , begin clysis ; fluid should start in readily without pain or lump .
Then inject Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) into rubber tubing close to needle .
An alternate method is to inject Amphadase ® under skin prior to clysis .
150 U will facilitate absorption of 1 , 000 mL or more of solution .
As with all parenteral fluid therapy , observe effect closely , with same precautions for restoring fluid andelectrolyte balance as in intravenous injections .
The dose , the rate of injection , and the type of solution ( saline , glucose , Ringer ’ s , etc . ) must be adjusted carefully to the individual patient .
When solutions devoid of inorganic electrolytes are given by hypodermoclysis , hypovolemia may occur .
This may be prevented by using solutions containing adequate amounts of inorganic electrolytes and / or controlling the volume and speed of administration .
Amphadase ® may be added to small volumes of solution ( up to 200 mL ) , such as small clysis for infants or solutions of drugs for subcutaneous injection .
For infants and children less than 3 years old , the volume of a single clysis should be limited to 200 mL ; and in premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight ; the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
For older patients , the rate and volume of administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
2 . 2 Absorption and Dispersion of Injected Drugs Absorption and dispersion of other injected drugs may be enhanced by adding 50 - 300 Units , most typically 150 U hyaluronidase , to the injection solution .
2 . 3 Subcutaneous Urography The subcutaneous route of administration of urographic contrast media is indicated when intravenous administration cannot be successfully accomplished , particularly in infants and small children .
With the patient prone , 75 U of Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) is injected subcutaneously over each scapula , followed by injection of the contrast medium at the same sites .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 150 USP units / mL single dose vials 150 USP units / mL single dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase or any other ingredient in the formulation is a contraindication to the use of this product .
A preliminary skin test for hypersensitivity to Amphadase ® can be performed .
The skin test is made by an intradermal injection of approximately 0 . 02 mL ( 3 Units ) of a 150 Unit / mL solution .
A positive reaction consists of a wheal with pseudopods appearing within 5 minutes and persisting for 20 to 30 minutes and accompanied by localized itching .
Transient vasodilation at the site of the test , i . e . , erythema , is not a positive reaction .
Discontinue Amphadase ® if sensitization occurs .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Spread of Localized Infection ( 5 . 1 ) • Ocular Damage ( 5 . 2 ) • Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Spread of Localized Infection Hyaluronidase should not be injected into or around an infected or acutely inflamed area because of the danger of spreading a localized infection .
Hyaluronidase should not be used to reduce the swelling of bites or stings .
5 . 2 Ocular Damage Hyaluronidase should not be applied directly to the cornea .
5 . 3 Enzyme Inactivation with Intravenous Administration Hyaluronidase should not be used for intravenous injections because the enzyme is rapidly inactivated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of hyaluronidase products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been local injection site reactions .
Hyaluronidase has been reported to enhance the adverse reactions associated with co - administered drug products .
Edema has been reported most frequently in association with hypodermoclysis .
Allergic reactions ( urticaria , angioedema ) have been reported in less than 0 . 1 % of patients receiving hyaluronidase .
Anaphylactic - like reactions following retrobulbar block or intravenous injections have occurred , rarely .
Allergic and anaphylactic - like reactions have been reported , rarely ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 423 - 4136 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS It is recommended that appropriate references be consulted regarding physical or chemical incompatibilities before adding Amphadase ® to a solution containing another drug .
• Furosemide , the benzodiazepines and phenytoin are incompatible with hyaluronidase ( 7 . 1 ) • Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the absorption and dispersion of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs ( 7 . 2 ) • Local anesthetics : Hyaluronidase hastens onset and shortens duration of effect , increases incidence of systemic reactions ( 7 . 3 ) • Large doses of salicylates , cortisone , ACTH , estrogens or antihistamines may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect ( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Incompatibilities Furosemide , the benzodiazepines and phenytoin have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
7 . 2 Drug - Specific Precautions Hyaluronidase should not be used to enhance the dispersion and absorption of dopamine and / or alpha agonist drugs .
When considering the administration of any other drug with hyaluronidase , it is recommended that appropriate references first be consulted to determine the usual precautions for the use of the other drug ; e . g . , when epinephrine is injected along with hyaluronidase , the precautions for the use of epinephrine in cardiovascular disease , thyroid disease , diabetes , digital nerve block , ischemia of the fingers and toes etc . , should be observed .
7 . 3 Local Anesthetics When hyaluronidase is added to a local anesthetic agent , it hastens the onset of analgesia and tends to reduce the swelling caused by local infiltration , but the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution increases its absorption ; this shortens its duration of action and tends to increase the incidence of systemic reaction .
7 . 4 Salicylates , Cortisone , ACTH , Estrogens and Antihistamines Patients receiving large doses of salicylates , cortisone , ACTH , estrogens or antihistamines may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect , since these drugs apparently render tissues partly resistant to the action of hyaluronidase .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
Special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid over hydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion .
( 2 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . No adequate and well controlled studies have been conducted with Amphadase ® in pregnant women .
No adequate and well controlled animal studies have been conducted with Amphadase ® to determine reproductive effects .
Amphadase ® should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Administration of hyaluronidase during labor was reported to cause no complications : no increase in blood loss or differences in cervical trauma were observed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether hyaluronidase is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when hyaluronidase is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Amphadase ® have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of Amphadase ® in these patients is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies .
Clinical hydration requirements for children can be achieved through administration of subcutaneous fluids facilitated with Amphadase ® .
The dosage of subcutaneous fluids administered is dependent upon the age , weight , and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations .
The potential for chemical or physical incompatibilities should be kept in mind [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The rate and volume of subcutaneous fluid administration should not exceed those employed for intravenous infusion .
For premature infants or during the neonatal period , the daily dosage should not exceed 25 mL / kg of body weight , and the rate of administration should not be greater than 2 mL per minute .
During subcutaneous fluid administration , special care must be taken in pediatric patients to avoid over hydration by controlling the rate and total volume of the infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Amphadase ® is a preparation of purified bovine testicular hyaluronidase , a protein enzyme .
The exact chemical structure of this enzyme is unknown .
However , the amino acid sequence for the primary structure of the enzyme has been deduced from the sequence of purified peptides .
Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) is supplied as a sterile , clear , colorless , ready for use solution .
Each vial contains 150 USP units of hyaluronidase per mL with 8 . 5 mg sodium chloride , 1 mg edetate disodium , 0 . 4 mg calcium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate buffer , and not more than 0 . 1 mg thimerosal ( mercury derivative ) .
Amphadase ® has an approximate pH of 6 . 8 and an osmolality of 295 to 355 mOsm .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hyaluronidase is a dispersion agent , which modifies the permeability of connective tissue through the hydrolysis of hyaluronic acid , a polysaccharide found in the intercellular ground substance of connective tissue , and of certain specialized tissues , such as the umbilical cord and vitreous humor .
Hyaluronic acid is also present in the capsules of type A and C hemolytic streptococci .
Hyaluronidase hydrolyzes hyaluronic acid by splitting the glucosaminidic bond between Cl of an N - acetylglucosamine moiety and C4 of a glucuronic acid moiety .
This temporarily decreases the viscosity of the cellular cement and promotes dispersion of injected fluids or of localized transudates or exudates , thus facilitating their absorption .
Hyaluronidase cleaves glycosidic bonds of hyaluronic acid and , to a variable degree , some other acid mucopolysaccharides of the connective tissue .
The activity is measured in vitro by monitoring the decrease in the amount of an insoluble serum albumin - hyaluronic acid complex as the enzyme cleaves the hyaluronic acid component .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In the absence of hyaluronidase , material injected subcutaneously disperses very slowly .
Hyaluronidase facilitates dispersion , provided local interstitial pressure is adequate to furnish the necessary mechanical impulse .
Such an impulse is normally initiated by injected solutions .
The rate and extent of dispersion and absorption is proportionate to the amount of hyaluronidase and the volume of solution .
Results from an experimental study , in humans , on the influence of hyaluronidase in bone repair support the conclusion that this enzyme alone , in the usual clinical dosage , does not deter bone healing .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the disappearance of injected hyaluronidase is limited .
It is known , however , that the blood of a number of mammalian species brings about the inactivation of hyaluronidase .
Studies have demonstrated that hyaluronidase is antigenic : repeated injections of relatively large amounts of this enzyme may result in the formation of neutralizing antibodies .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of hyaluronidase .
Hyaluronidase is found in most tissues of the body .
Long - term animal studies have not been performed to assess whether hyaluronidase impaired fertility ; however , it has been reported that testicular degeneration may occur with the production of organ - specific antibodies against this enzyme following repeated injections .
Human studies on the effect of intravaginal hyaluronidase in sterility due to oligospermia indicated that hyaluronidase may have aided conception .
Thus , it appears that hyaluronidase may not adversely affect fertility in females .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Amphadase ® ( hyaluronidase injection ) is supplied sterile as 150 USP units of hyaluronidase per mL in a 2 mL single - use glass vial with a gray rubber stopper and aluminum flip - off seal .
NDC 0548 - 9090 - 10 , 1 mL vial , 10 vials / carton .
Store unopened in a refrigerator at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Important Precautions Regarding Amphadase ® Instruct patient that Amphadase ® is being used to increase the dispersion and absorption of fluids or other injected drugs , as appropriate to the intended use .
Instruct patient that there may be mild local injection site signs and symptoms , such as redness , swelling , itching , or pain localized to the site of injection .
17 . 2 What Patients Should Know About Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been mild local injection site reactions such as redness , swelling , itching , or pain .
Anaphylactic - like reactions , and allergic reactions , such as hives , have been reported rarely in patients receiving hyaluronidases .
17 . 3 Patients Should Inform Their Doctors If Taking Other Medications You may not receive furosemide , the benzodiazepines , phenytoin , dopamine and / or alpha agonists with Amphadase ® .
These medications have been found to be incompatible with hyaluronidase .
If you are taking salicylates ( e . g . , aspirin ) , steroids ( e . g . , cortisone or estrogens ) , or antihistamines your doctor may need to prescribe larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect .
Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Rancho Cucamonga , CA 91730 , U . S . A . Rev . 5 / 14 6990906 P PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Carton : 1 mL NDC 0548 - 9090 - 10 Stock No 9091 AMPHADASE ® HYALURONIDASE INJECTION , USP Not for IV use .
See Enclosed Directions .
10 x 1 mL Single Dose Vials Rx Only 1 mL Each mL contains 150 USP units hyaluronidase with 8 . 5 mg sodium chloride , 1 mg edetate disodium , 0 . 4 mg calcium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate buffer , and not more than 0 . 1 mg thimerosal ( mercury derivative ) .
Usual dosage : See enclosed information for parenteral route and specific conditions .
Amphadase is ready for injection .
Store in Refrigerator [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
