Active ingredients Purpose dl - Camphor 3 % ....................................... Topical analgesic dL - Menthol 15 % .........................................
Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with one or more of the following : simple backache , lumbago , strains and sprains ( involving muscles , tendons and / or ligaments ) and arthritis .
Not recommended for emotional pain .
Consult a healthcare practitioner / health care provider / health care professional / doctor / physician for use beyond 7 days .
Warnings For external use only • Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
Do ont use otherwise than as directed .
Caution : Discontinue use if excessive irritation of the skin develops .
When using this product Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Do not tightly bandage .
Do not apply with external heat , such as electric heating pad , as this may result in excessive skin irritation or skin burn .
Do not inhale .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Hypersensitivity / allergy , rashes and or burning discomfort occur .
• You experience pain , swelling or blistering .
• Symptoms worsens • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Seek immediate medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately if overdose or accidental ingestion occurs .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : 1 Spray 3 - 4 times per day .
Apply thinly and evenly to affected area .
Rub and / or massage into skin until solution vannishes .
Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information • Store in airtight , light - resistant container at room temperature .
Inactive ingredients beta - Alanine , Magnesium chloride , SDAG - 3 , Salix Nigra ( Willow ) Bark Extract , Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Potassium chloride .
Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
