Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( Heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a Doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Inactive Ingredients None Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Discover the relaxing spa like qualities of this product in your bath For Minor Sprains and Bruises Saline Laxative For Relief of Occasional Constipation For external use as a soaking aid for minor spraind and bruises .
Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or towelling for 30 minutes up to three times a day .
For a less intensive soak , use 1 or 2 cupfuls in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children .
DISTRIBUTED BY : WAKEFERN FOOD CORP .
5000 RIVERSIDE DRIVE KEASBEY , NJ 08832 Your complete satisfaction or your money back .
We welcome your questions and comments .
Call : 1 - 800 - ShopRite or Contact us : www . shoprite . com principal panel display ShopRite epsom salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . MgSO4 7H2O Saline Laxative SOAKING AID For Minor Sprains and Bruises Net Wt 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
