RX Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY HYDRO - Q ® contains hydroquinone USP 4 % .
Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - Benzenediol { CAS 123 - 31 - 91 } .
Hydroquinone is structurally related to monobenzone .
Hydroquinone occurs as fine white needles .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol and has a pKa of 9 . 96 .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; The molecular weight is 110 . 1 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIVE INGREDIENT Hydroquinone USP 4 % OTHER INGREDIENTS : Purified water , Carbomer 940 , Sodium Metabisulfite , Sodium Hydroxide , Methylparaben , Edetate Disodium .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic hydroquinone .
oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) 1 and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause regimentation of the bleached areas .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HYDRO - Q ® is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chlosma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines and areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS HYDRO - Q ® is contraindicated in any patient that has a prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to hydroquinone or any of the other ingredients .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
WARNINGS • CAUTION : Hydroquinone is a depigmenting agent that may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
• Test for skin sensitivity before using HYDRO - Q ® by applying a small amount of the gel to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication but where there is itching and vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Contact with the eyes should be avoided .
If no lightening effect is noted after 2 months of treatment the use of HYDRO - Q ® should be discontinued .
HYDRO - Q ® is formulated for the treatment of dyschromia and should not be used for the prevention of sunburn .
• Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
To prevent repigmentation during treatment and maintenance therapy , sun exposure on treated skin should be avoided by application of a broad spectrum sunscreen SPF 15 or greater ) or by use of protective clothing • Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , contact a physician or a poison control center immediately .
• WARNING : Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause serious allergic reactions ( e . g . , hives , itching , wheezing , anaphylaxis , severe asthma attack ) in certain susceptible persons • On rare occasions , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin may occur , in which case , use of HYDRO - Q ® should be discontinued and a physician contacted immediately PRECAUTIONS See Warnings A . Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman , or can affect reproductive capacity .
B . Nursing mothers It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when used by a nursing mother .
C . Pediatric usage Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic reactions have been reported .
Occasional cutaneous hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a skin reddening and a mild burning sensation that does not preclude treatment DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION HYDRO - Q ® should be applied to the affected areas twice daily , morning and before bedtime or as directed by a physician .
During and after the use of HYDRO - Q ® , sun exposure should be limited and a sunscreen agent or protective clothing should be used to cover up the treated areas to prevent regimentation .
If no lightening effect is noted after two months of treatment , use of HYDRO - Q ® should be discontinued .
There is no recommended dosage for children under the age of 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED HYDRO - Q ® ( Hydroquinone 4 % ) Gel is supplied in a 30 g tube .
NDC : 30815 - 0040 - 1 Store at controlled room temperature , between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
REFERENCES • Denton C , Fitzpatrick TB , Lerner AB .
Inhibition of melanin formation by chemical agents .
J Invest Dermatology .
1952 ; 18 : 119 - 135 .
• Fitzpatrick TB , Jimbow K , Obata M , Panthak M . Mechanism of depigmentation by hydroquinone .
J Invest Dermatology .
1974 ; 62 : 436 - 449 .
• Anderson RR , Parrish JA , Pitts D , Urbach F . UVA , Biological Effects of Ultraviolet Radiation With Emphasis on Human Responses to Longwave Ultraviolet .
New York and London : Plenum Press ; 1978 : 151 .
Distributed by : DermAvance Pharmaceuticals , Malvern , PA 19355 NDC 30815 - 0040 - 1 P15132917 - 1 I2430214 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Tube Box NDC 30815 - 0040 - 1 Rx Only HYDRO - Q 4 % GEL ® ( Hydroquinone 4 % ) Gel ® SKIN BLEACHING GEL DermAvance ® Advanced Skin Care www . DermAvance . com 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
