PRESERVATIVE - FREE STERILE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION in a Sterile Ophthalmic Unit Dose Dispenser DESCRIPTION Timolol maleate is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
Its chemical name is ( - ) - 1 - ( tert - butylamino ) - 3 - [ ( 4 - morpholino - 1 , 2 , 5 - thiadiazol - 3 - yl ) oxy ] - 2 - propanol maleate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Timolol maleate possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided as the levo - isomer .
The optical rotation of timolol maleate is : [ α ] 25 ° 405 nm in 1 . 0 N HCl ( C = 5 % ) = – 12 . 2 ° ( – 11 . 7 ° to – 12 . 5 ° ) Its molecular formula is C13H24N4O3S • C4H4O4 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol maleate has a molecular weight of 432 . 50 .
It is a white , odorless , crystalline powder which is soluble in water , methanol , and alcohol .
Timolol maleate is stable at room temperature .
Timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is supplied in two formulations : Ophthalmic Solution TIMOPTIC ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) , which contains the preservative benzalkonium chloride ; and Ophthalmic Solution TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) , the preservative - free formulation .
Preservative - free Ophthalmic Solution TIMOPTIC ® is supplied in OCUDOSE ® , a unit dose container , as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , aqueous solution of timolol maleate in two dosage strengths : Each mL of Preservative - free TIMOPTIC ® in OCUDOSE ® 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of timolol ( 3 . 4 mg of timolol maleate ) .
The pH of the solution is approximately 7 . 0 , and the osmolarity is 252 - 328 mOsm .
Each mL of Preservative - free TIMOPTIC ® in OCUDOSE ® 0 . 5 % contains 5 mg of timolol ( 6 . 8 mg of timolol maleate ) .
Inactive ingredients : monobasic and dibasic sodium phosphate , sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Timolol maleate is a beta1 and beta2 ( non - selective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic , direct myocardial depressant , or local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) activity .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade reduces cardiac output in both healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may inhibit the stimulatory effect of the sympathetic nervous system necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade in the bronchi and bronchioles results in increased airway resistance from unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Such an effect in patients with asthma or other bronchospastic conditions is potentially dangerous .
TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) , when applied topically on the eye , has the action of reducing elevated as well as normal intraocular pressure , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss .
The higher the level of intraocular pressure , the greater the likelihood of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage .
The onset of reduction in intraocular pressure following administration of TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) can usually be detected within one - half hour after a single dose .
The maximum effect usually occurs in one to two hours , and significant lowering of intraocular pressure can be maintained for periods as long as 24 hours with a single dose .
Repeated observations over a period of one year indicate that the intraocular pressure - lowering effect of TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) is well maintained .
The precise mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) is not clearly established at this time .
Tonography and fluorophotometry studies in man suggest that its predominant action may be related to reduced aqueous formation .
However , in some studies a slight increase in outflow facility was also observed .
Pharmacokinetics In a study of plasma drug concentration in six subjects , the systemic exposure to timolol was determined following twice daily administration of TIMOPTIC 0 . 5 % .
The mean peak plasma concentration following morning dosing was 0 . 46 ng / mL and following afternoon dosing was 0 . 35 ng / mL .
Clinical Studies In controlled multiclinic studies in patients with untreated intraocular pressures of 22 mmHg or greater , TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 25 or 0 . 5 % administered twice a day produced a greater reduction in intraocular pressure than 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 % pilocarpine solution administered four times a day or 0 . 5 , 1 , or 2 % epinephrine hydrochloride solution administered twice a day .
In these studies , TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) was generally well tolerated and produced fewer and less severe side effects than either pilocarpine or epinephrine .
A slight reduction of resting heart rate in some patients receiving TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) ( mean reduction 2 . 9 beats / minute standard deviation 10 . 2 ) was observed .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE may be used when a patient is sensitive to the preservative in TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) , benzalkonium chloride , or when use of a preservative - free topical medication is advisable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is contraindicated in patients with ( 1 ) bronchial asthma ; ( 2 ) a history of bronchial asthma ; ( 3 ) severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( see WARNINGS ) ; ( 4 ) sinus bradycardia ; ( 5 ) second or third degree atrioventricular block ; ( 6 ) overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) ; ( 7 ) cardiogenic shock ; or ( 8 ) hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS As with many topically applied ophthalmic drugs , this drug is absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In Patients without a History of Cardiac Failure continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE should be discontinued .
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) of mild or moderate severity , bronchospastic disease , or a history of bronchospastic disease ( other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma , in which TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is contraindicated [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] ) should , in general , not receive beta - blockers , including Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have experienced protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , some authorities recommend gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists .
Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents that might precipitate a thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of potential effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents on blood pressure and pulse , these agents should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of therapy with Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE , alternative therapy should be considered .
Choroidal detachment after filtration procedures has been reported with the administration of aqueous suppressant therapy ( e . g . , timolol ) .
Angle - closure glaucoma : In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This requires constricting the pupil .
Timolol maleate has little or no effect on the pupil .
TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE should not be used alone in the treatment of angle - closure glaucoma .
Anaphylaxis : While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
Muscle weakness : Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Timolol has been reported rarely to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed about the use of Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE .
Since sterility cannot be maintained after the individual unit is opened , patients should be instructed to use the product immediately after opening and to discard the individual unit and any remaining contents immediately after use .
Patients with bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular block , or cardiac failure should be advised not to take this product ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug Interactions Although TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) used alone has little or no effect on pupil size , mydriasis resulting from concomitant therapy with TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) and epinephrine has been reported occasionally .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents : Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE should be observed for potential additive effects of beta - blockade , both systemic and on intraocular pressure .
The concomitant use of two topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended .
Calcium antagonists : Caution should be used in the coadministration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , such as Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE , and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists , because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , and hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , coadministration should be avoided .
Catecholamine - depleting drugs : Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may result in vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Digitalis and calcium antagonists : The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
CYP2D6 inhibitors : Potentiated systemic beta - blockade ( e . g . , decreased heart rate , depression ) has been reported during combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , SSRIs ) and timolol .
Clonidine : Oral beta - adrenergic blocking agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
There have been no reports of exacerbation of rebound hypertension with ophthalmic timolol maleate .
Injectable epinephrine : ( See PRECAUTIONS , General , Anaphylaxis ) Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year study of timolol maleate administered orally to rats , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of adrenal pheochromocytomas in male rats administered 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 42 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Similar differences were not observed in rats administered oral doses equivalent to approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
In a lifetime oral study in mice , there were statistically significant increases in the incidence of benign and malignant pulmonary tumors , benign uterine polyps and mammary adenocarcinomas in female mice at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 71 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) , but not at 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 700 or 7 , 000 times , respectively , the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
In a subsequent study in female mice , in which post - mortem examinations were limited to the uterus and the lungs , a statistically significant increase in the incidence of pulmonary tumors was again observed at 500 mg / kg / day .
The increased occurrence of mammary adenocarcinomas was associated with elevations in serum prolactin which occurred in female mice administered oral timolol at 500 mg / kg / day , but not at doses of 5 or 50 mg / kg / day .
An increased incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas in rodents has been associated with administration of several other therapeutic agents that elevate serum prolactin , but no correlation between serum prolactin levels and mammary tumors has been established in humans .
Furthermore , in adult human female subjects who received oral dosages of up to 60 mg of timolol maleate ( the maximum recommended human oral dosage ) , there were no clinically meaningful changes in serum prolactin .
Timolol maleate was devoid of mutagenic potential when tested in vivo ( mouse ) in the micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay ( doses up to 800 mg / kg ) and in vitro in a neoplastic cell transformation assay ( up to 100 mcg / mL ) .
In Ames tests the highest concentrations of timolol employed , 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 mcg / plate , were associated with statistically significant elevations of revertants observed with tester strain TA100 ( in seven replicate assays ) , but not in the remaining three strains .
In the assays with tester strain TA100 , no consistent dose response relationship was observed , and the ratio of test to control revertants did not reach 2 .
A ratio of 2 is usually considered the criterion for a positive Ames test .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats demonstrated no adverse effect on male or female fertility at doses up to 21 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects Teratogenicity studies with timolol in mice , rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 7 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) demonstrated no evidence of fetal malformations .
Although delayed fetal ossification was observed at this dose in rats , there were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
Doses of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 142 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were maternotoxic in mice and resulted in an increased number of fetal resorptions .
Increased fetal resorptions were also seen in rabbits at doses of 14 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose , in this case without apparent maternotoxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Timolol maleate has been detected in human milk following oral and ophthalmic drug administration .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from timolol in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution have been established when administered in pediatric patients aged 2 years and older .
Use of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in these children is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies in children and adults .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse experiences have been burning and stinging upon instillation ( approximately one in eight patients ) .
The following additional adverse experiences have been reported less frequently with ocular administration of this or other timolol maleate formulations : Body as a Whole Headache , asthenia / fatigue , and chest pain .
Cardiovascular Bradycardia , arrhythmia , hypotension , hypertension , syncope , heart block , cerebral vascular accident , cerebral ischemia , cardiac failure , worsening of angina pectoris , palpitation , cardiac arrest , pulmonary edema , edema , claudication , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , and cold hands and feet .
Digestive Nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and dry mouth .
Immunologic Systemic lupus erythematosus .
Nervous System / Psychiatric Dizziness , increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis , paresthesia , somnolence , insomnia , nightmares , behavioral changes and psychic disturbances including depression , confusion , hallucinations , anxiety , disorientation , nervousness , and memory loss .
Skin Alopecia and psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis .
Hypersensitivity Signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , and localized and generalized rash .
Respiratory Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with pre - existing bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure , dyspnea , nasal congestion , cough and upper respiratory infections .
Endocrine Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Special Senses Signs and symptoms of ocular irritation including conjunctivitis , blepharitis , keratitis , ocular pain , discharge ( e . g . , crusting ) , foreign body sensation , itching and tearing , and dry eyes ; ptosis ; decreased corneal sensitivity ; cystoid macular edema ; visual disturbances including refractive changes and diplopia ; pseudopemphigoid ; choroidal detachment following filtration surgery ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) ; and tinnitus .
Urogenital Retroperitoneal fibrosis , decreased libido , impotence , and Peyronie ' s disease .
The following additional adverse effects have been reported in clinical experience with ORAL timolol maleate or other ORAL beta blocking agents , and may be considered potential effects of ophthalmic timolol maleate : Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm with respiratory distress ; Body as a Whole : Extremity pain , decreased exercise tolerance , weight loss ; Cardiovascular : Worsening of arterial insufficiency , vasodilatation ; Digestive : Gastrointestinal pain , hepatomegaly , vomiting , mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis ; Hematologic : Nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura , agranulocytosis ; Endocrine : Hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia ; Skin : Pruritus , skin irritation , increased pigmentation , sweating ; Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , local weakness , diminished concentration , reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics ; Respiratory : Rales , bronchial obstruction ; Urogenital : Urination difficulties .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE There have been reports of inadvertent overdosage with Ophthalmic Solution TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) resulting in systemic effects similar to those seen with systemic beta - adrenergic blocking agents such as dizziness , headache , shortness of breath , bradycardia , bronchospasm , and cardiac arrest ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Overdosage has been reported with timolol maleate tablets .
A 30 - year - old female ingested 650 mg of timolol maleate tablets ( maximum recommended oral daily dose is 60 mg ) and experienced second and third degree heart block .
She recovered without treatment but approximately two months later developed irregular heartbeat , hypertension , dizziness , tinnitus , faintness , increased pulse rate , and borderline first degree heart block .
An in vitro hemodialysis study , using 14 C timolol added to human plasma or whole blood , showed that timolol was readily dialyzed from these fluids ; however , a study of patients with renal failure showed that timolol did not dialyze readily .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is a sterile solution that does not contain a preservative .
The solution from one individual unit is to be used immediately after opening for administration to one or both eyes .
Since sterility cannot be guaranteed after the individual unit is opened , the remaining contents should be discarded immediately after administration .
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE is available in concentrations of 0 . 25 and 0 . 5 % .
The usual starting dose is one drop of 0 . 25 % Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE in the affected eye ( s ) administered twice a day .
Apply enough gentle pressure on the individual container to obtain a single drop of solution .
If the clinical response is not adequate , the dosage may be changed to one drop of 0 . 5 % solution in the affected eye ( s ) administered twice a day .
Since in some patients the pressure - lowering response to Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE may require a few weeks to stabilize , evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with Preservative - free TIMOPTIC in OCUDOSE .
If the intraocular pressure is maintained at satisfactory levels , the dosage schedule may be changed to one drop once a day in the affected eye ( s ) .
Because of diurnal variations in intraocular pressure , satisfactory response to the once - a - day dose is best determined by measuring the intraocular pressure at different times during the day .
Dosages above one drop of 0 . 5 % TIMOPTIC ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) twice a day generally have not been shown to produce further reduction in intraocular pressure .
If the patient ' s intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with other agent ( s ) for lowering intraocular pressure can be instituted taking into consideration that the preparation ( s ) used concomitantly may contain one or more preservatives .
The concomitant use of two topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Beta - adrenergic blocking agents ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Preservative - free Sterile Ophthalmic Solution TIMOPTIC ® in OCUDOSE ® is a clear , colorless to light yellow solution .
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC , 0 . 25 % timolol equivalent , is supplied in OCUDOSE , a clear low density polyethylene unit dose container .
Each individual unit contains 0 . 3 mL of solution , and is available in a foil laminate overwrapped pouch as follows : NDC 0187 - 1498 - 25 ; 60 Individual Unit Doses .
Preservative - free TIMOPTIC , 0 . 5 % timolol equivalent , is supplied in OCUDOSE , a clear low density polyethylene unit dose container .
Each individual unit contains 0 . 3 mL of solution , and is available in a foil laminate overwrapped pouch as follows : NDC 0187 - 1496 - 05 ; 60 Individual Unit Doses .
Storage Store at room temperature , 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Protect from light .
Because evaporation can occur through the unprotected polyethylene unit dose container and prolonged exposure to direct light can modify the product , the unit dose container should be kept in the protective foil overwrap and used within one month after the foil package has been opened .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Laboratoire Unither Zl de la Guérie F - 50211 Coutances Cedex France ® / ™ are trademarks of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2020 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : 01 / 2020 65NOT8556 / C 9390303 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 1498 - 25 Rx only TIMOPTIC ® in OCUDOSE ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) ( DISPENSER ) 0 . 25 % Timolol Equivalent ( Timolol Maleate 3 . 4 mg / mL ) 60 x 0 . 3 mL UNIT DOSES FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE PRESERVATIVE - FREE STERILE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION Keep out of reach of children .
BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 1496 - 05 Rx only TIMOPTIC ® in OCUDOSE ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) ( DISPENSER ) 0 . 5 % Timolol Equivalent ( Timolol Maleate 6 . 8 mg / mL ) 60 x 0 . 3 mL UNIT DOSES FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE PRESERVATIVE - FREE STERILE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION Keep out of reach of children .
BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
