Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minures before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours : • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF Value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants hats and sunglasses • children umder 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , dimethicone , Glycine soja ( soybean ) seed extract , bis - phenylpropyl dimethicone , arachidyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , benzyl alcohol , panthenol , ethylene / acrylic acid copolymer , behenyl alcohol , steareth - 2 , fragrance , steareth - 21 , polymethyl methacrylate , polyacrylamide , arachidyl glucoside , disodium EDTA , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , BHT , titanium dioxide , mica Questions ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 This light , fast - absorbing moisturizer contains soy seed extract and light diffusers that help even out skin tone and texture and subtly reflecting light to immediately enhance your skin ' s appearance .
Dermatologist tested Hypoallergenic Non - irritating Non - comedogenic With UVA / UVB protection May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces Satisfaction guaranteed .
For questions or comments or to report an undesired reaction or side effect , please call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson , distributor of Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Moisturizer with Sinscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Wal - Mart Stores , Inc . , Bentonville , AR 72716 Wal - Mart Stores , Inc Principal Panel Display equate beauty COMPARE TO AVEENO POSITIVELY RADIANT DAILY MOISTURIZER NATURALLY BEAMING Daily Moisturizer with Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 * Naturally Beaming Daily Moisturizer Broad Spectrum SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Moisturize With soy seed extract and light diffusers Helps even out skin tone and texture Paraben and Phthalate Free 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
