1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANGIOMAX RTU is indicated for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) , including patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome .
ANGIOMAX RTU is a direct thrombin inhibitor indicated for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) , including patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is a 0 . 75 mg / kg intravenous bolus dose followed immediately by a 1 . 75 mg / kg / h intravenous infusion for the duration of the procedure .
Five minutes after the bolus dose , assess activated clotting time ( ACT ) to determine if an additional bolus of 0 . 3 mg / kg is needed .
( 2 . 1 ) • Consider extending duration of infusion post - procedure up to 4 hours in patients with ST segment elevation MIConsider extending duration of infusion post - procedure up to 4 hours in patients with ST segment elevation MI ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of ANGIOMAX RTU is an intravenous bolus dose of 0 . 75 mg / kg , followed immediately by a maintenance infusion of 1 . 75 mg / kg / h for the duration of the procedure .
Five minutes after the bolus dose has been administered , assess activated clotting time ( ACT ) to determine if an additional bolus of 0 . 3 mg / kg is needed .
Consider extending duration of infusion following PCI at 1 . 75 mg / kg / h for up to 4 hours post - procedure in patients with ST segment elevation MI ( STEMI ) .
2 . 2 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment Bolus Dose No reduction in the bolus dose is needed for any degree of renal impairment .
Maintenance Infusion : In patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ( by Cockcroft Gault equation ) , reduce the infusion rate to 1 mg / kg / h .
In patients on hemodialysis , reduce the infusion rate to 0 . 25 mg / kg / h [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Instructions for Administration Inspection of Container Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit . Once removed from refrigerator , use immediately [ see How Supplied Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
Discard any unused portion .
Drug Compatibilities No incompatibilities have been observed with administration sets .
Do not administer the drugs listed in Table 1 in the same intravenous line with ANGIOMAX RTU .
Table 1 .
Drugs Not for Administration in the Same Intravenous Line with ANGIOMAX RTU Alteplase Amiodarone HCl Amphotericin B Chlorpromazine HCl Diazepam Dobutamine Prochlorperazine Edisylate Reteplase Streptokinase Vancomycin HCl 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to yellow sterile solution : • 250 mg of bivalirudin per 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial .
Ready - to - use .
Each vial contains 250 mg of bivalirudin equivalent to an average of 275 mg bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 270 to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 7 to 2 . 6 equivalents .
Injection : 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial .
Ready - to - use .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ANGIOMAX RTU is contraindicated in patients with : • Significant active bleeding ; • Hypersensitivity to ANGIOMAX RTU or its components [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• • Significant active bleeding ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity to bivalirudin or its components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Bleeding events : bivalirudin increases the risk of bleeding .
Its anticoagulant effect subsides approximately one hour after discontinuation .
( 5 . 1 , 6 . 1 , 12 . 2 ) • • Thrombotic risk with coronary artery brachytherapy : An increased risk of thrombus formation , including fatal outcomes , in gamma brachytherapy .
( 5 . 2 , 6 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Bleeding Events Bivalirudin increases the risk of bleeding [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Bivalirudin ’ s anticoagulant effect subsides approximately one hour after discontinuation [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Thrombotic Risk with Coronary Artery Brachytherapy An increased risk of thrombus formation , including fatal outcomes , has been associated with the use of bivalirudin in gamma brachytherapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction was bleeding ( 3 . 7 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MAIA Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 877 - 9064 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the BAT trials , 79 of the 2161 ( 3 . 7 % ) of subjects undergoing PCI for treatment of unstable angina and randomized to bivalirudin experienced intracranial bleeding , retroperitoneal bleeding , clinically overt bleeding with a decrease in hemoglobin greater than 3 g / dL or leading to a transfusion of greater than 2 units of blood .
Immunogenicity / Re - Exposure As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to bivalirudin in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In in vitro studies , bivalirudin exhibited no platelet aggregation response against sera from patients with a history of HIT / HITTS .
Among 494 subjects who received bivalirudin in clinical trials and were tested for antibodies , 2 subjects had treatment - emergent positive bivalirudin antibody tests .
Neither subject demonstrated clinical evidence of allergic or anaphylactic reactions and repeat testing was not performed .
Nine additional patients who had initial positive tests were negative on repeat testing .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because postmarketing adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of bivalirudin : fatal bleeding ; hypersensitivity and allergic reactions including reports of anaphylaxis ; lack of anticoagulant effect ; thrombus formation during PCI with and without intracoronary brachytherapy , including reports of fatal outcomes ; pulmonary hemorrhage ; cardiac tamponade ; and INR increased .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical trials in patients undergoing PCI , co - administration of bivalirudin with heparin , warfarin , thrombolytics , or GPIs was associated with increased risks of major bleeding events compared to patients not receiving these concomitant medications .
Heparin , warfarin , thrombolytics , or GPIs : Increased major bleeding risk with concomitant use .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Geriatric patients : Increased bleeding risk possible .
( 8 . 5 ) Renal impairment : Reduce infusion dose and monitor ACT .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on use of bivalirudin in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits administered subcutaneously ( SC ) doses up to 1 . 6 times and 3 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on body surface area ( BSA ) , respectively , revealed no evidence of fetal harm .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproductive studies have been performed in rats at subcutaneous doses up to 150 mg / kg / day , ( 1 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and rabbits at subcutaneous doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
These studies revealed no harm to the fetus attributable to bivalirudin .
At 500 mg / kg / day subcutaneously , litter sizes and live fetuses in rats were reduced .
Fetal skeletal variations were also noted .
Some of these changes could be attributed to maternal toxicity observed at high doses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether bivalirudin is present in human milk .
No data are available on the effects of bivalirudin on the breastfed child or on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In studies of patients undergoing PCI , 44 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 12 % of patients were ≥ 75 years old .
Elderly patients experienced more bleeding events than younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The disposition of bivalirudin was studied in PTCA patients with mild , moderate and severe renal impairment .
The clearance of bivalirudin was reduced approximately 21 % in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and was reduced approximately 70 % in dialysis - dependent patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The infusion dose of ANGIOMAX RTU may need to be reduced , and anticoagulant status monitored in patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Cases of overdose of up to 10 times the recommended bolus or continuous infusion dose of bivalirudin have been reported in clinical trials and in postmarketing reports .
A number of the reported overdoses were due to failure to adjust the infusion dose of bivalirudin in persons with renal dysfunction including persons on hemodialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Bleeding , as well as deaths due to hemorrhage , have been observed in some reports of overdose .
In cases of suspected overdosage , discontinue bivalirudin immediately and monitor the patient closely for signs of bleeding .
There is no known antidote to bivalirudin .
Bivalirudin is hemodialyzable [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION ANGIOMAX RTU contains bivalirudin trifluoroacetate , which is a specific and reversible direct thrombin inhibitor .
Bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is a synthetic , 20 amino acid peptide salt , with the chemical name of D - phenylalanyl - L - prolyl - L - arginyl - L - prolylglycylglycylglycylglycyl - L - asparagylglycyl - L - α - aspartyl - L - phenylalanyl - L - α - glutamyl - L - α - glutamyl - L - isoleucyl - L - prolyl - L - α - glutamyl - L - α - glutamyl - L - tyrosyl - L - leucine trifluoroacetate .
Each molecule of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate contains 1 . 7 to 2 . 6 equivalents of trifluoroacetic acid .
The molecular formula of bivalirudin free base is C98H138N24O33 and its molecular weight is 2180 . 32 Daltons ( anhydrous free base peptide ) .
The structural formula of bivalirudin free base is Figure 1 : Structural Formula of Bivalirudin [ MULTIMEDIA ] ANGIOMAX RTU is supplied as a refrigerated , ready - to - use , sterile solution , containing 250 mg of bivalirudin ( equivalent to an average of 275 mg of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * ) 5 g polyethylene glycol 400 , 40 mg sodium acetate trihydrate , and water for injection in single - dose 50 mL vials .
The pH of ANGIOMAX RTU may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid to 5 . 0 to 5 . 5 .
The solution is intended for intravenous use at room temperature .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 270 to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 7 to 2 . 6 equivalents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bivalirudin directly inhibits thrombin by specifically binding both to the catalytic site and to the anion - binding exosite of circulating and clot - bound thrombin .
Thrombin is a serine proteinase that plays a central role in the thrombotic process , acting to cleave fibrinogen into fibrin monomers and to activate Factor XIII to Factor XIIIa , allowing fibrin to develop a covalently cross - linked framework which stabilizes the thrombus ; thrombin also activates Factors V and VIII , promoting further thrombin generation , and activates platelets , stimulating aggregation and granule release .
The binding of bivalirudin to thrombin is reversible as thrombin slowly cleaves the bivalirudin - Arg3 - Pro4 bond , resulting in recovery of thrombin active site functions .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In healthy volunteers and patients ( with ≥ 70 % vessel occlusion undergoing routine PTCA ) , bivalirudin exhibited dose - and concentration - dependent anticoagulant activity as evidenced by prolongation of the ACT , aPTT , PT , and TT .
Intravenous administration of bivalirudin produces an immediate anticoagulant effect .
Coagulation times return to baseline approximately 1 hour following cessation of bivalirudin administration .
Bivalirudin also increases INR .
In 291 patients with ≥ 70 % vessel occlusion undergoing routine PTCA , a positive correlation was observed between the dose of bivalirudin and the proportion of patients achieving ACT values of 300 sec or 350 sec .
At a bivalirudin dose of 1 mg / kg intravenous bolus plus 2 . 5 mg / kg / h intravenous infusion ( 1 . 4 times higher than the approved dose of 1 . 75 mg / kg / h ) for 4 hours , followed by 0 . 2 mg / kg / h , all patients reached maximal ACT values greater than 300 sec .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Bivalirudin exhibits linear pharmacokinetics following intravenous administration to patients undergoing PTCA .
In these patients , a mean steady state bivalirudin concentration of 12 . 3 ± 1 . 7 mcg / mL is achieved following an intravenous bolus of 1 mg / kg and a 4 - hour 2 . 5 mg / kg / h intravenous infusion .
Distribution Bivalirudin does not bind to plasma proteins ( except thrombin ) or to red blood cells .
Elimination Bivalirudin has a half - life of 25 minutes in PTCA patients with normal renal function .
The total body clearance of bivalirudin in PTCA patients with normal renal function is 3 . 4 mL / min / kg .
Metabolism Bivalirudin is metabolized by proteolytic cleavage .
Excretion Bivalirudin undergoes glomerular filtration .
Tubular secretion and tubular reabsorption are also implicated in the excretion of bivalirudin , although the extent is unknown .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment Total body clearance was similar for PTCA patients with normal renal function and with mild renal impairment .
Clearance was reduced by 21 % in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment with a half - life of 34 and 57 minutes , respectively .
In dialysis patients , clearance was reduced by 70 % , with a half - life of 3 . 5 hours .
Approximately 25 % bivalirudin is cleared by hemodialysis .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bivalirudin .
Bivalirudin displayed no genotoxic potential in the in vitro bacterial cell reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , the in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell forward gene mutation test ( CHO / HGPRT ) , the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay , the in vitro rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) assay , and the in vitro rat micronucleus assay .
Fertility and general reproductive performance in rats were unaffected by subcutaneous doses of bivalirudin up to 150 mg / kg / day , about 1 . 6 times the dose on a body surface area basis ( mg / m2 ) of a 50 kg person given the maximum recommended dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Bivalirudin Angioplasty Trial ( BAT ) In the BAT studies , patients with unstable angina undergoing PCI were randomized 1 : 1 to a 1 mg / kg bolus of bivalirudin and then 2 . 5 mg / kg / h for four hours and then 0 . 2 mg / kg / h for 14 to 20 hours or to 175 IU / kg bolus of heparin followed by an 18 - to 24 - hour infusion of 15 IU / kg / h infusion .
Additional heparin but not bivalirudin could be administered for ACT less than 350 seconds .
The studies were designed to demonstrate the superiority of bivalirudin to heparin on the occurrence of any of the following during hospitalization up to seven days of death , MI , abrupt closure of the dilated vessel , or clinical deterioration requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump .
The 4312 subjects ranged in age from 29 to 90 ( median 63 ) years .
68 % were male , and 91 % were Caucasian .
Median weight was 80 kg ( 39 to 120 kg ) .
741 ( 17 % ) subjects had post - MI angina .
Twenty - three percent of patients were treated with heparin within one hour prior to randomization .
The studies did not demonstrate that bivalirudin was statistically superior to heparin for reducing the risk of death , MI , abrupt closure of the dilated vessel , or clinical deterioration requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump , but the occurrence of these events was similar in both treatment groups .
Study outcomes are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Incidences of In - hospital Endpoints in BAT Trial Endpoint Bivalirudin ( n = 2161 ) HEPARIN ( n = 2151 ) Primary endpoint † 7 . 9 % 9 . 3 % Death , MI , revascularization 6 . 2 % 7 . 9 % Death 0 . 2 % 0 . 2 % MI 3 . 3 % 4 . 2 % † A composite of death or MI or clinical deterioration of cardiac origin requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump or angiographic evidence of abrupt vessel closure AT - BAT Trial ( NCT # 00043940 ) This was a single - arm open - label study in which 51 subjects with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) or heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome ( HITTS ) undergoing PCI .
The majority of patients achieved adequate ACT at the time of device activation and no major bleeding was reported .
Two patients developed thrombocytopenia .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ANGIOMAX RTU is supplied as a refrigerated , ready - to - use , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to yellow , sterile solution in 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose , glass vials .
The single - dose vials are available as follows : • NDC 70511 - 141 - 50 : Carton containing 1 ANGIOMAX RTU single - dose vial • NDC 70511 - 141 - 84 : Carton containing 10 ANGIOMAX RTU single - dose vials Each vial contains 250 mg of bivalirudin ( equivalent to an average of 275 mg bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * ) .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 270 to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 7 to 2 . 6 equivalents .
16 . 2 Storage Store ANGIOMAX RTU vials in the refrigerator between 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Excursions are permitted to 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid excess heat .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to watch carefully for any signs of bleeding or bruising and to report these to their healthcare provider when they occur .
Manufactured for MAIA Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Distributed by Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 70511 - 141 - 50 ANGIOMAX RTU ( bivalirudin ) Injection 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) Rx Only For Intravenous Use Only Do Not Dilute Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70511 - 141 - 84 ANGIOMAX RTU ( bivalirudin ) Injection 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) Rx only For Intravenous Use Only Do Not Dilute 10 Single - Dose Vials Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
