DESCRIPTION : Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram contains sodium sulfacetamide 10 % ( 100 mg ) and sulfur 5 % ( 50 mg ) , purified water , disodium laureth sulfosuccinate and disodium lauryl sulfoacetate , PPG - hydroxyethyl coco isostearamide , sodium cocoyl isethionate , mineral oil , butylated hydroxytoluene , emulsifying wax , methyl paraben , propyl paraben , sodium thiosulfate , disodium EDTA and hydrochloric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although it is rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion contact a poison control center immediately .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS : General : If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients : Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser .
It is also not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Wash affected areas once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 – 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is available in a 6 oz ( 170 g ) tube , NDC 42808 - 0110 - 06 and 12 oz carton that contains ( 2 ) 6 oz tubes , NDC 42808 - 0110 - 12 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured in the U . S . A . for Exact - Rx , Inc . , Melville , NY 11747 00 - 0100 - 99 - 205 - 00 Iss : 6 / 11 PACKAGE LABEL - 12 oz ( 340 g ) For External Use Only NDC 42808 - 0110 - 12 Rx Only Sodium Sulfacetamide & Sulfur ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 5 % ) 10 % / 5 % CLEANSER Exact - Rx .
INCORPORATED Contains 2 x 6 oz .
tubes ( 170 g each ) Net Wt .
12 oz ( 340 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
