[ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % is intended for topical administration .
The active component is the corticosteroid fluocinonide , which is the 21 - acetate ester of fluocinolone acetonide and has the chemical name pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % contains fluocinonide 0 . 5 mg / mL in a solution of citric acid , ethyl alcohol ( 35 % ) , diisopropyl adipate , propylene glycol and purified water .
In this formulation , the active ingredient is totally in solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
A significantly greater amount of fluocinonide is absorbed from the solution than from the cream or gel formulations .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , the addition of occlusive dressings , and dosage form .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
This preparation is not for ophthalmic use .
Severe irritation is possible if fluocinonide solution contacts the eye .
If that should occur , immediate flushing of the eye with a large volume of water is recommended .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued , and appropriate therapy instituted .
As with any topical corticosteroid product , prolonged use may produce atrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues .
When used on intertriginous or flexor areas , or on the face , this may occur even with short - term use .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If there is contact with the eyes and severe irritation occurs , immediately flush with a large volume of water .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : • Urinary free cortisol test • ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teligent Pharma , Inc . at 1 - 856 - 697 - 1441 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued , and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in the following bottle sizes : 20 mL ( NDC 52565 - 025 - 20 ) 60 mL ( NDC 52565 - 025 - 59 ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat , above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , New Jersey 08310 PI - 025 - 00 Rev 06 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Bottle Carton NDC 52565 - 025 - 20 Fluocinonide Topical Solution , USP 0 . 05 % 20 mL For Topical Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use [ MULTIMEDIA ]
