Active ingredient Lidocaine 5 % w / w Purpose Local anesthetic Uses Helps relieve the pain , itching , and burning associated with hemorrhoids and other anorectal disorders .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product • symptom being treated does not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms develop or increase • symptoms clear up and return within a few days If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • When practical , clean area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying .
• Adults and children 12 years and older : apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times a day .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature ( 20 - 25 ° C ) ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat and cold .
Protect from sunlight .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , carbomer , hydrogenated lecithin , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , triethanolamine , vitamin E Questions ?
1 - 800 - 645 - 2158 Compare to the active ingredient in Recticare ® Anorectal Cream †† • For the temporary relief of anorectal itching & discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • Helps relieve pain , soreness & burning • Highest OTC lidocaine strength available + 10 FINGER COTS * READ AND KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF THE TUBE IS DAMAGED OR TAMPERED WITH .
Close cap tightly after each use .
†† This product is not manufactured or distributed by Ferndale Healthcare ® , Inc . , a subsidiary of Ferndale Pharma Group , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark RectiCare ® .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
