DESCRIPTION Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % contains clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % contains isopropyl alcohol , 50 % v / v ; propylene glycol and purified water .
Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid may be added to adjust pH between 4 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of clindamycin in treating acne vulgaris is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Following multiple topical applications of clindamycin phosphate at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per mL in an isopropyl alcohol and water solution , very low levels of clindamycin are present in the serum ( 0 to 3 ng / mL ) and less than 0 . 2 % of the dose is recovered in urine as clindamycin .
Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Microbiology Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is bacteriostatic .
Antimicrobial Activity Clindamycin is active in vitro against most isolates of Propionibacterium acnes ; however , the clinical significance is unknown .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of specific bases of the 23 S ribosomal RNA .
Cross - resistance between clindamycin and lincomycin is complete .
Because the binding sites for these antibacterial drugs overlap , cross resistance is sometimes observed among lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramin B . Macrolideinducible resistance to clindamycin occurs in some isolates of macrolide - resistant bacteria .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
In view of the potential for diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis , the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate topical solution is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin , a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death .
Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis .
Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
When significant diarrhea occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen the condition .
Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile .
The usual adult dosage is 500 milligrams to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days .
Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro .
If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently , it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin .
PRECAUTIONS General Clindamycin phosphate topical solution contains an alcohol base which will cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with sensitive surfaces ( eye , abraded skin , mucous membranes ) , bathe with copious amounts of cool tap water .
The solution has an unpleasant taste and caution should be exercised when applying medication around the mouth .
Clindamycin phosphate topical solution should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
There are no adequate studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in breast milk following use of clindamycin phosphate topical solution .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations If used during lactation and clindamycin phosphate topical solution is applied to the chest , care should be taken to avoid accidental ingestion by the infant .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies for Clindamycin Phosphate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of Clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and / or active comparator drugs as controls , patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [ see table below ] .
# not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events Solution n = 553 ( % ) Gel n = 148 ( % ) Lotion n = 160 ( % ) Burning 62 ( 11 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Itching 36 ( 7 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Burning / Itching 60 ( 11 ) # ( – ) # ( – ) Dryness 105 ( 19 ) 34 ( 23 ) 29 ( 18 ) Erythema 86 ( 16 ) 10 ( 7 ) 22 ( 14 ) Oiliness / Oily Skin 8 ( 1 ) 26 ( 18 ) 12 * ( 10 ) Peeling 61 ( 11 ) # ( – ) 11 ( 7 ) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally .
Cases of diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin ( see WARNINGS ) .
Abdominal pain , gastrointestinal disturbances , gram - negative folliculitis , eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clindamycin phosphate can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Clindamycin phosphate topical solution , twice daily to affected area .
Keep all liquid dosage forms in containers tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter are clear solution with characteristics odor free from particulate matter .
Filled in white HDPE bottle fitted with white PP cap and is available in the following sizes : Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % is NDC 72578 - 084 - 02 in applicator bottle of 30 mL NDC 72578 - 084 - 03 in applicator bottle of 60 mL Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 304 - 5011 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Zydus Lifesciences Ltd .
Changodar , Ahmedabad , India .
Distributed by : Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cranford , NJ 07016 Rev . : 08 / 22 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72578 - 084 - 02 Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP , 1 % Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
