Active ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity rinse Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings for this product Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 6 years of age and older : use once a day after brushing your teeth with toothpaste • remove cap • pour 10 mililiters ( 10 mL mark on inside of cap ) ; do not fill above the 10 mL mark • vigorously swish 10 mililiters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , calcium disodium EDTA , cetylpyridinium chloride , disodium EDTA , disodium phosphate , flavor , poloxamer 407 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , red 33 , sodium benzoate , sodium phosphate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol , water Adverse reaction The ADA Coouncilon Scientfic Affairs Acceptance of up & up Kids Anticavity fluoride Rine is based on its finding that the product is effective n helping to prevent and reduce tooth decay , when used as directed .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , distributor of Act Bubblegum Anticavity Kids Fluoride Rinse .
Dist .
by Target Corp . , Mpls . , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign components Shop Target .
Com Guest Services 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 principal display panel SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION ADA Accepted American Association kids anticavity fluoride rinse Compare to Act Bubble Gum Blowout Anticavity Kids Fluoride Rinse • alcohol free • helps prevent cavities and strengthen teeth up & up BUBBLEGUM FLAVOR IMPORTANT : read directions for proper use 16 . 9 FL OZ ( 500 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
