WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME Differentiation syndrome , which can be fatal , can occur with REZLIDHIA treatment .
Symptoms may include dyspnea , pulmonary infiltrates / pleuropericardial effusion , kidney injury , hypotension , fever , and weight gain .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , withhold REZLIDHIA and initiate treatment with corticosteroids and hemodynamic monitoring until symptom resolution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : DIFFERENTIATION SYNDROME See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Differentiation syndrome , which can be fatal , can occur with REZLIDHIA treatment .
• If differentiation syndrome is suspected , withhold REZLIDHIA and initiate corticosteroids and hemodynamic monitoring until symptom resolution .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia REZLIDHIA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with a susceptible isocitrate dehydrogenase - 1 ( IDH1 ) mutation as detected by an FDA - approved test [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
REZLIDHIA is an isocitrate dehydrogenase - 1 ( IDH1 ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with a susceptible IDH1 mutation as detected by an FDA - approved test .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Select patients based on presence of IDH1 mutation ( s ) .
( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dosage : 150 mg orally twice daily , until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 2 ) • Take on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Patient Selection Select patients for the treatment of relapsed or refractory AML with REZLIDHIA based on the presence of IDH1 mutations in blood or bone marrow [ see Clinical Trials ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Information on FDA - approved tests for the detection of IDH1 mutations in AML is available at http : / / www . fda . gov / CompanionDiagnostics .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of REZLIDHIA is 150 mg taken orally twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Administer REZLIDHIA capsules orally about the same time each day .
Do not administer 2 doses within 8 hours .
Take on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients without disease progression or unacceptable toxicity , treat for a minimum of 6 months to allow time for clinical response .
Swallow REZLIDHIA capsules whole .
Do not break , open , or chew the capsules .
If a dose of REZLIDHIA is vomited , do not administer a replacement dose ; wait until the next scheduled dose is due .
If a dose of REZLIDHIA is missed or not taken at the usual time , administer the dose as soon as possible and at least 8 hours prior to the next scheduled dose .
Return to the normal schedule the following day .
2 . 3 Monitoring and Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Assess blood counts , and blood chemistries including liver function tests prior to initiation of REZLIDHIA , at least once weekly for the first two months ; once every other week for the third month ; once in the fourth month , and once every other month for the duration of therapy .
Manage any abnormalities promptly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 and 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Interrupt dosing or reduce dose for toxicities .
See Table 1 for dosage modification guidelines .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage Modifications for REZLIDHIAAdverse Reactions Recommended Action Differentiation Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • If differentiation syndrome is suspected , withhold REZLIDHIA until signs and symptoms improve .
• Administer systemic corticosteroids and initiate hemodynamic monitoring until symptom resolution and for a minimum of 3 days .
• Resume REZLIDHIA at 150 mg twice daily after resolution of differentiation syndrome .
• If a recurrence of differentiation syndrome is suspected , withhold REZLIDHIA and institute treatment per above guidance .
After resolution of symptoms , REZLIDHIA may be resumed at a reduced dose of 150 mg once daily for a minimum of 7 days , after which it can be increased to 150 mg twice daily .
Noninfectious leukocytosis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • Initiate treatment with hydroxyurea , as per standard practices .
Taper hydroxyurea only after leukocytosis improves or resolves .
Grade 3 [ 1 ] hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Withhold REZLIDHIA and monitor liver function tests , twice per week , until laboratory values have returned to baseline or Grade 1 null toxicity .
• Resume REZLIDHIA at a reduced dose of 150 mg once daily and continue monitoring ; may increase to 150 mg twice daily if hepatotoxicity resolves to baseline for at least 28 days .
• If hepatotoxicity ( Grade 3 ) recurs at 150 mg once daily , discontinue REZLIDHIA .
Grade 4 null hepatotoxicity or AST or ALT > 3 x ULN and total bilirubin > 2 x ULN and alkaline phosphatase < 2 x ULN in the absence of a clear alternative explanation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Permanently discontinue REZLIDHIA Other Grade 3 null or higher toxicity considered related to treatment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] • Interrupt REZLIDHIA until toxicity resolves to Grade 2 null or lower .
• Resume REZLIDHIA at 150 mg once daily ; may increase to 150 mg twice daily if toxicities resolve to Grade 1 null or lower for at least 1 week .
• If Grade 3 null or higher toxicity recurs at 150 mg once daily , discontinue REZLIDHIA .
[ 1 ] Grade 1 is mild , Grade 2 is moderate , Grade 3 is severe , Grade 4 is life - threatening .
Severity as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI CTCAE version 4 . 03 ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 150 mg opaque white capsules imprinted with " OLU 150 " .
Capsules : 150 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor liver function tests during treatment with REZLIDHIA .
If hepatotoxicity occurs , interrupt and reduce or discontinue REZLIDHIA .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Differentiation Syndrome REZLIDHIA can cause differentiation syndrome .
In the clinical trial of REZLIDHIA in patients with relapsed or refractory AML , differentiation syndrome occurred in 16 % ( 25 / 153 ) of patients , with grade 3 or 4 differentiation syndrome occurring in 8 % of patients treated , and fatalities in 1 % of patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Differentiation syndrome is associated with rapid proliferation and differentiation of myeloid cells and may be life - threatening or fatal .
Symptoms of differentiation syndrome in patients treated with REZLIDHIA included leukocytosis , dyspnea , pulmonary infiltrates / pleuropericardial effusion , kidney injury , fever , edema , pyrexia , and weight gain .
Of the 25 patients who experienced differentiation syndrome , 19 ( 76 % ) recovered after treatment or after dosage interruption of REZLIDHIA .
Differentiation syndrome occurred as early as 1 day and up to 18 months after REZLIDHIA initiation and has been observed with or without concomitant leukocytosis .
If differentiation syndrome is suspected , temporarily withhold REZLIDHIA and initiate systemic corticosteroids ( e . g . , dexamethasone 10 mg IV every 12 hours ) for a minimum of 3 days and until resolution of signs and symptoms .
If concomitant leukocytosis is observed , initiate treatment with hydroxyurea , as clinically indicated .
Taper corticosteroids and hydroxyurea after resolution of symptoms .
Differentiation syndrome may recur with premature discontinuation of corticosteroids and / or hydroxyurea treatment .
Institute supportive measures and hemodynamic monitoring until improvement ; withhold dose of REZLIDHIA and consider dose reduction based on recurrence [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hepatotoxicity REZLIDHIA can cause hepatotoxicity , presenting as increased alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , increased aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , increased blood alkaline phosphatase , and / or elevated bilirubin .
Of 153 patients with relapsed or refractory AML who received REZLIDHIA , hepatotoxicity occurred in 23 % of patients ; 13 % experienced grade 3 or 4 hepatotoxicity [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
One patient treated with REZLIDHIA in combination with azacitidine in the clinical trial , a combination for which REZLIDHIA is not indicated , died from complications of drug - induced liver injury .
The median time to onset of hepatotoxicity in patients with relapsed or refractory AML treated with REZLIDHIA was 1 . 2 months ( range : 1 day to 17 . 5 months ) after REZLIDHIA initiation , and the median time to resolution was 12 days ( range : 1 day to 17 months ) .
The most common hepatotoxicities were elevations of ALT , AST , blood alkaline phosphatase , and blood bilirubin .
Monitor patients frequently for clinical symptoms of hepatic dysfunction such as fatigue , anorexia , right upper abdominal discomfort , dark urine , or jaundice .
Obtain baseline liver function tests prior to initiation of REZLIDHIA , at least once weekly for the first two months , once every other week for the third month , once in the fourth month , and once every other month for the duration of therapy .
If hepatic dysfunction occurs , withhold , reduce , or permanently discontinue REZLIDHIA based on recurrence / severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Differentiation Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , are aspartate aminotransferase increased , alanine aminotransferase increased , potassium decreased , sodium decreased , alkaline phosphatase increased , nausea , creatinine increased , fatigue / malaise , arthralgia , constipation , lymphocytes increased , bilirubin increased , leukocytosis , uric acid increased , dyspnea , pyrexia , rash , lipase increased , mucositis , diarrhea and transaminitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rigel Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 983 - 1329 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Relapsed or Refractory AML The safety of REZLIDHIA 150 mg administered twice daily was evaluated in 153 adults with relapsed or refractory AML with an IDH1 mutation [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Among the 153 patients who received REZLIDHIA , 35 % were exposed for at least 6 months and 21 % were exposed for at least 1 year .
The median duration of exposure to REZLIDHIA was 4 . 7 months ( range : 0 . 1 to 34 months ) .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 25 % of patients who received REZLIDHIA .
Serious adverse reactions in ≥ 5 % included differentiation syndrome ( 9 % ) and transaminitis ( 6 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 1 % of patients who received REZLIDHIA , due to differentiation syndrome .
Permanent discontinuation of REZLIDHIA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 8 % of patients .
Adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation in ≥ 1 % of patients included transaminitis , differentiation syndrome , and gallbladder disorders .
Dosage interruptions of REZLIDHIA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 32 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which required dosage interruption in > 5 % of patients included transaminitis and differentiation syndrome .
Dose reductions of REZLIDHIA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 11 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which required dose reductions in ≥ 2 % of patients included transaminitis .
The most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions , including laboratory abnormalities , were aspartate aminotransferase increased , alanine aminotransferase increased , potassium decreased , sodium decreased , alkaline phosphatase increased , nausea , creatinine increased , fatigue / malaise , arthralgia , constipation , lymphocytes increased , bilirubin increased , leukocytosis , uric acid increased , dyspnea , pyrexia , rash , lipase increased , mucositis , diarrhea and transaminitis .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions in the clinical trial for relapsed or refractory AML .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory AML in the Clinical Trial Olutasidenib 150 mg BID N = 153 Body System Adverse Reaction All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 38 0 Constipation 26 0 Mucositis [ 1 ] 23 3 Diarrhea 20 1 Abdominal pain [ 2 ] 18 1 Vomiting 17 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue / malaise null 36 3 Pyrexia 24 1 Edema null 18 3 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia [ 3 ] 28 3 Blood System and Lymphatic Disorders Leukocytosis 25 9 Differentiation syndrome [ 4 ] ' [ 5 ] 16 8 Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea null ' [ 6 ] 24 5 Cough null 17 1 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash null 24 1 Investigations Transaminitis [ 7 ] 20 12 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 16 2 Nervous System Disorders Headache 13 0 Vascular Disorders Hypertension null 10 5 [ 1 ] Mucositis includes gingival hypertrophy , gingivitis , gingivitis ulcerative , oral disorder , colitis , mouth ulceration , stomatitis , tongue ulceration , oral pain , oropharyngeal pain , pharyngitis , proctalgia , and colitis ischemic .
[ 2 ] Includes multiple similar adverse reaction terms .
[ 3 ] Arthralgia grouped term includes arthralgia , bone pain , back pain , neck pain , pain in extremity , arthritis , joint effusion , joint range of motion decreased , and joint swelling .
[ 4 ] Includes fatal adverse reaction .
[ 5 ] Symptoms of differentiation syndrome in patients treated with REZLIDHIA included leukocytosis , dyspnea , pulmonary infiltrates / pleuropericardial effusion , kidney injury , fever , edema , pyrexia , and weight gain .
[ 6 ] Dyspnea grouped term includes acute respiratory distress syndrome , dyspnea , dyspnea exertional , hypoxia , oxygen saturation decreased , respiratory distress , respiratory failure .
[ 7 ] Transaminitis grouped term includes alanine aminotransferase increased , aspartate aminotransferase increased , hepatic enzyme increased , hypertransaminasemia , liver function test abnormal , liver function test increased , transaminases increased , hepatitis acute , and blood alkaline phosphatase increased .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients who received REZLIDHIA include : • Gallbladder disorders : biliary tract disorder , biliary colic , cholangitis , and cholestasis • Electrocardiogram QT prolonged Table 3 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in the clinical trial for relapsed or refractory AML .
Table 3 : Most Common ( ≥ 10 % ) New or Worsening Laboratory Abnormalities in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory AML in the Clinical Trial Olutasidenib [ 1 ] Parameter All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Aspartate aminotransferase increased 47 10 Alanine aminotransferase increased 46 13 Potassium decreased 46 9 Sodium decreased 42 7 Alkaline phosphatase increased 42 7 Creatinine increased 38 2 Lymphocytes increased 26 3 Bilirubin increased 26 2 Uric acid increased 25 3 Lipase increased 24 8 [ 1 ] The denominator used to calculate the rate varied from 143 to 152 based on the number of patients with a baseline value and at least one post - treatment value .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong or moderate CYP3A Inducers : Avoid concomitant use .
( 7 . 1 ) • Sensitive CYP3A Substrates : Avoid concomitant use .
Monitor if unavoidable .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on Olutasidenib Strong or Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant use of REZLIDHIA with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers .
Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate .
Concomitant use of REZLIDHIA with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases olutasidenib Cmax and AUC , which may reduce REZLIDHIA efficacy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Concomitant use of REZLIDHIA with a moderate CYP3A inducer may also decrease olutasidenib Cmax and AUC , which may also reduce REZLIDHIA efficacy , based on observations from concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inducer .
7 . 2 Effect of Olutasidenib on Other Drugs Sensitive CYP3A Substrates Avoid concomitant use of REZLIDHIA with sensitive CYP3A substrates unless otherwise instructed in the substrates prescribing information .
If concomitant use is unavoidable , monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of these drugs .
Olutasidenib induces CYP3A .
Concomitant use of REZLIDHIA may decrease plasma concentrations of sensitive CYP3A substrates , which may reduce the substrate ’ s efficacy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal embryo - fetal toxicity studies , REZLIDHIA may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data on REZLIDHIA use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk .
In embryo - fetal development studies , oral olutasidenib resulted in embryo - fetal death and altered fetal growth when administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at exposures up to 10 times and 0 . 7 times , respectively , the human exposure at the recommended daily dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Olutasidenib was administered twice daily via oral gavage at dose levels of 25 , 125 , or 250 mg / kg / dose ( 50 , 250 , or 500 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats during organogenesis ( gestation days 6 - 17 ) .
An increase in fetal supernumerary rib was observed at the high dose ( 10 times the AUC at the clinical dose of 150 mg BID ) .
In a pilot study , administration of olutasidenib orally to pregnant rats during organogenesis resulted in an increase in post - implantation loss at doses of 250 and 450 mg / kg / day ( 9 and 10 times the AUC at the clinical dose of 150 mg BID ) .
Olutasidenib was administered twice daily via oral gavage at dose levels of 10 , 20 , or 40 mg / kg / dose ( 20 , 40 , or 80 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis ( gestation days 7 - 20 ) .
Maternal toxicity noted as reduced body weight gain occurred at 80 mg / kg / day .
An increase in fetal supernumerary rib and increased post - implantation loss occurred at the high dose of 80 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the AUC at the clinical dose of 150 mg BID ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of olutasidenib or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and due to the potential for adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with REZLIDHIA and for 2 weeks after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of REZLIDHIA have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Among the 153 patients with relapsed or refractory AML with an IDH1 mutation treated with REZLIDHIA , 116 ( 76 % ) were 65 years of age or older and 48 ( 31 % ) were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between patients 65 years and older and younger patients .
Compared to patients younger than 65 years of age , an increase in incidence of hepatotoxicity and hypertension was observed in patients ≥ 65 years of age .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage modification is recommended for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] 30 to < 90 mL / min , as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) .
The recommended dosage of REZLIDHIA has not been established in patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 to 29 mL / min as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , kidney failure ( CLcr < 15 mL / min , as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , and patients on dialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage modification is recommended for patients with mild ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and any AST > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ) or moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , closely monitor for increased probability of differentiation syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The recommended dosage of REZLIDHIA has not been established in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN with any AST ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Olutasidenib is an isocitrate dehydrogenase - 1 ( IDH1 ) inhibitor .
The chemical name is ( S ) - 5 - ( ( 1 - ( 6 - chloro - 2 - oxo - 1 , 2 - dihydroquinolin - 3 - yl ) ethyl ) amino ) - 1 - methyl - 6 - oxo - 1 , 6 - dihydropyridine - 2 - carbonitrile .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C18H15ClN4O2 and the molecular weight is 354 . 79 g / mol .
Olutasidenib is a white to off - white to brown powder that is practically insoluble in aqueous solutions between pH 1 . 2 and 7 . 4 .
REZLIDHIA ( olutasidenib ) is available as hard gelatin capsules for oral administration .
Each capsule contains 150 mg olutasidenib and the following ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
The capsule shell contains gelatin and titanium dioxide .
Each capsule is printed with black ink containing ferrosoferric oxide , propylene glycol , and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Olutasidenib is a small - molecule inhibitor of mutated isocitrate dehydrogenase - 1 ( IDH1 ) .
In patients with AML , susceptible IDH1 mutations are defined as those leading to increased levels of 2 - hydroxyglutarate ( 2 - HG ) in the leukemia cells and where efficacy is predicted by 1 ) clinically meaningful remissions with the recommended dose of olutasidenib and / or 2 ) inhibition of mutant IDH1 enzymatic activity at concentrations of olutasidenib sustainable at the recommended dosage according to validated methods .
The most common of such mutations in patients with AML are R132H and R132C substitutions .
In vitro , olutasidenib inhibited mutated IDH1 R132H , R132L , R132S , R132G , and R132C proteins ; wild - type IDH1 or mutated IDH2 proteins were not inhibited .
Olutasidenib inhibition of mutant IDH1 led to decreased 2 - HG levels in vitro and in in vivo xenograft models .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The mean [ % coefficient of variation ( % CV ) ] reduction in 2 - HG plasma concentration was 59 . 1 % ( 122 % ) by pre - dose Cycle 2 and was sustained throughout the treatment period in patients with AML and IDH1 mutations following the approved recommended olutasidenib dosage .
Increased olutasidenib exposure was correlated with the increased probability of differentiation syndrome and Grade ≥ 3 hepatotoxicity in patients with AML following the approved recommended olutasidenib dosage .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The largest mean increase in QTc interval was 6 . 2 msec ( upper 90 % confidence interval = 9 . 7 msec ) in 33 patients with advanced hematologic malignancies with an IDH1 mutation following a single dose and multiple doses of the approved recommended olutasidenib dosage under fasted conditions .
This increase in the QTc interval was concentration dependent .
Increased QT prolongation is expected with increased exposures of olutasidenib under a fed condition compared to that under fasting conditions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The clinical impact of this increase could not be determined because QTc intervals were not evaluated at higher olutasidenib exposures .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of olutasidenib have been characterized in patients with AML following the approved recommended dosage , unless otherwise specified .
The mean ( % CV ) olutasidenib steady - state daily area under the plasma drug concentration over time curve ( AUC0 - 12 - h , ss ) is 43050 ( 34 . 0 % ) ng · h / mL and steady - state maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax , ss ) is 3573 ( 45 . 6 % ) ng / mL following the approved recommended dosage .
Olutasidenib Cmax and AUC increase less - than proportionally over a dosage range from 100 mg to 300 mg ( 0 . 33 to 1 time the recommended total daily dose ) ; however , this finding should not affect the recommended dosage of REZLIDHIA .
Olutasidenib accumulation ratios ranging from 7 . 7 and 9 . 5 were observed following the approved recommended dosage .
Steady - state plasma levels are reached within 14 days .
Absorption The median ( min , max ) time to maximum concentration ( tmax ) of olutasidenib is approximately 4 ( 1 , 8 ) hours following a single oral dose of 150 mg .
Effect of Food The mean ( CV % ) of olutasidenib Cmax increased by 191 % ( 20 . 6 % ) and AUCinf increased by 83 % ( 18 . 3 % ) following administration of a single 150 mg dose of olutasidenib with a high - fat meal ( approximately 800 to 1 , 000 calories , with approximately 50 % of total caloric content of the meal from fat ) in healthy subjects .
Distribution The mean ( CV % ) apparent volume of distribution of olutasidenib is 319 ( 28 . 1 % ) L .
The plasma protein binding of olutasidenib is approximately 93 % .
Elimination The mean ( CV % ) half - life ( t1 ⁄ 2 ) of olutasidenib is approximately 67 ( 51 . 2 % ) hours and the mean ( CV % ) apparent oral clearance ( CL / F ) of olutasidenib is 4 ( 60 . 5 % ) L / h .
Metabolism Olutasidenib metabolism involves N - dealkylation , demethylation , oxidative deamination followed by oxidation , mono - oxidation with subsequent glucuronidation .
Olutasidenib is primarily ( 90 % ) metabolized by cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 , with minor contributions from CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP1A2 , and CYP2C19 .
Excretion Following a single oral radiolabeled olutasidenib dose of 150 mg to healthy subjects , approximately 75 % of olutasidenib was recovered in feces ( 35 % unchanged ) and 17 % in the urine ( 1 % unchanged ) .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of olutasidenib were observed based on age ( 28 to 90 years ) , sex , body weight ( 36 to 145 kg ) , mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] 30 to < 90 mL / min as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , or mild ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and any AST > ULN or total bilirubin > 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ) or moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment .
The effect of severe renal impairment ( CLcr 15 to 29 mL / min , as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , kidney failure ( CLcr < 15 mL / min , as estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , patients on dialysis , and patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 x ULN with any AST ) on olutasidenib pharmacokinetics is unknown or not fully characterized .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Strong CYP3A and P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) Inhibitors : No clinically significant differences in olutasidenib pharmacokinetics were observed when used concomitantly with multiple doses of a strong CYP3A and P - gp inhibitor ( itraconazole ) .
Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Olutasidenib Cmax decreased by 43 % and AUC by 80 % when used concomitantly with multiple doses of a strong CYP3A inducer ( rifampin ) .
In vitro Studies CYP Enzymes : Olutasidenib induces CYP3A4 , CYP2B6 , CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 .
Olutasidenib does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 / 5 .
Transporter Systems : Olutasidenib is not a substrate of BCRP , BSEP , MRP2 , MRP3 , or MRP4 .
Ivosidenib does not inhibit BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , and OCT2 at clinically relevant concentrations .
Ivosidenib is an inhibitor of OAT3 and P - gp .
Olutasidenib is an inhibitor of P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 , and MATE2K .
Olutasidenib does not inhibit BSEP , MRP2 , MRP3 , MRP4 , or OAT1 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with olutasidenib .
Olutasidenib was not genotoxic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) , in vitro human lymphocyte micronucleus , and in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assays .
Fertility studies in animals have not been conducted with olutasidenib .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Olutasidenib was phototoxic in vitro and in vivo .
In pigmented rats , oral administration of olutasidenib for 3 consecutive days followed by exposure to UV light 2 hours after the last dose resulted in skin erythema which persisted for 72 hours .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Acute Myeloid Leukemia The efficacy of REZLIDHIA was evaluated in an open - label , single - arm , multicenter clinical trial ( Study 2102 - HEM - 101 , NCT02719574 ) in 147 adult patients with relapsed or refractory AML with an IDH1 mutation .
IDH1 mutations in blood or bone marrow were confirmed retrospectively using the Abbott RealTime ™ IDH1 Assay .
REZLIDHIA was given orally at a dose of 150 mg twice daily until disease progression , development of unacceptable toxicity , or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
Sixteen of the 147 patients ( 11 % ) underwent stem cell transplantation following REZLIDHIA treatment .
The baseline demographic and disease characteristics are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Baseline Demographic and Disease Characteristics in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory AML ( Study 2102 - HEM - 101 ) Demographic and Disease Characteristics REZLIDHIA ( 150 mg twice daily ) N = 147 Demographics Age ( Years ) Median ( Min , Max ) 71 ( 32 , 87 ) Age Categories , n ( % ) < 65 years 37 ( 25 ) ≥ 65 years to < 75 years 65 ( 44 ) ≥ 75 years 45 ( 31 ) Sex , n ( % ) Male 74 ( 50 ) Female 73 ( 50 ) Race , n ( % ) White 67 ( 46 ) Black or African American 5 ( 3 ) Asian 5 ( 3 ) Native Hawaiian / Other Pacific Islander 0 ( 0 ) Other / Not provided 70 ( 48 ) Disease Characteristics ECOG PS , n ( % ) 0 45 ( 31 ) 1 76 ( 52 ) 2 23 ( 16 ) IDH1 Mutation , n ( % ) [ 1 ] R132C 85 ( 58 ) R132H 35 ( 24 ) R132G 12 ( 8 ) R132S 11 ( 7 ) R132L 4 ( 3 ) Type of AML , n ( % ) De novo AML 97 ( 66 ) Secondary AML 50 ( 34 ) Cytogenetic Risk Status [ 2 ] , n ( % ) Favorable 6 ( 4 ) Intermediate 107 ( 73 ) Poor 25 ( 17 ) Unknown 9 ( 6 ) Relapsed / Refractory Patient Category Primary Refractory 46 ( 31 ) Untreated Relapse [ 3 ] 81 ( 55 ) Refractory Relapse null 20 ( 14 ) Relapse Number 0 46 ( 31 ) 1 87 ( 59 ) 2 11 ( 8 ) ≥ 3 3 ( 2 ) Prior Stem Cell Transplantation for AML , n ( % ) 17 ( 12 ) Transfusion Dependent at Baseline [ 4 ] , n ( % ) 86 ( 59 ) Median Number of Prior Therapies ( Min , Max ) 2 ( 1 , 7 ) [ 1 ] Using central IDH1 assay testing results .
[ 2 ] Cytogenetic risk categorization was investigator reported by NCCN or ELN guidelines .
[ 3 ] May be first or subsequent relapse .
[ 4 ] Transfusion - Dependent at Baseline is defined as receiving a transfusion within 8 weeks prior to first dose of olutasidenib or noting transfusion dependence prior to coming on study .
Efficacy was established on the basis of the rate of complete remission ( CR ) plus complete remission with partial hematologic recovery ( CRh ) , the duration of CR + CRh , and the rate of conversion from transfusion dependence to transfusion independence .
The efficacy results are shown in Table 5 .
The median follow - up was 10 . 2 months ( range : 0 . 2 to 38 . 1 months ) and median treatment duration was 4 . 7 months ( range : 0 . 1 to 26 . 0 months ) .
Table 5 : Efficacy Results in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory AML ( Study 2102 - HEM - 101 ) Endpoint REZLIDHIA ( 150 mg twice daily ) N = 147 CR + CRh [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] n ( % ) 51 ( 35 ) 95 % CI ( 27 , 43 ) Median DOCR + CRh [ 3 ] ( months ) 25 . 9 95 % CI ( 13 . 5 , NR ) CR null n ( % ) 47 ( 32 ) 95 % CI ( 25 , 40 ) Median DOCR null ( months ) 28 . 1 95 % CI ( 13 . 8 , NR ) CRh null n ( % ) 4 ( 2 . 7 ) 95 % CI ( 0 . 7 , 6 . 8 ) Observed DOCRh null ( months ) 1 . 8 , 5 . 6 , 13 . 5 , 28 . 5 + CI : confidence interval ; NR = not reached [ 1 ] CR ( complete remission ) was defined as < 5 % blasts in the bone marrow , no blasts with Auer rods , no extramedullary disease , and full recovery of peripheral blood counts ( platelets > 100 , 000 / microliter and absolute neutrophil counts [ ANC ] > 1 , 000 / microliter ) ; CRh ( complete remission with partial hematologic recovery ) was defined as < 5 % blasts in the bone marrow , no evidence of disease , and partial recovery of peripheral blood counts ( platelets > 50 , 000 / microliter and ANC > 500 / microliter ) .
[ 2 ] CR + CRh rate was consistent across all baseline demographic and baseline disease characteristic subgroups with the exception of IDH1 R132H mutation ( CR + CRh 17 % ) .
[ 3 ] Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of the first response to the date of the relapse or death .
Patients who did not relapse were censored at the date of last response assessment .
+ indicates censored observation .
Of the patients who achieved a CR or CRh , the median time to CR or CRh was 1 . 9 months ( range : 0 . 9 to 5 . 6 months ) .
All patients that achieved a best response of CR or CRh did so within 5 . 6 months of initiating REZLIDHIA .
Overall , among the 86 patients who were dependent on red blood cell ( RBC ) and / or platelet transfusions at baseline , 29 ( 34 % ) became independent of RBC and platelet transfusions during any 56 - day post - baseline period .
Of the 61 patients who were independent of both RBC and platelet transfusions at baseline , 39 ( 64 % ) remained transfusion independent during any 56 - day post - baseline period .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Capsule Strength Description Package Configuration NDC Number 150 mg White hard gelatin capsules with black ink print " OLU 150 " White high - density polyethylene ( HDPE ) bottle with child - resistant closure 71332 - 005 - 01 Each bottle contains 30 capsules Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Differentiation Syndrome Advise patients of the risks of developing differentiation syndrome as early as 1 day after start of therapy and up to 18 months on treatment .
Ask patients to immediately report any symptoms suggestive of differentiation syndrome , such as fever , cough or difficulty breathing , decreased urinary output , low blood pressure , weight gain , or swelling of their arms or legs , to their healthcare provider for further evaluation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Advise patients of the potential for hepatic effects and to immediately report any associated signs and symptoms such as right upper abdominal discomfort , dark urine , jaundice , anorexia , or fatigue to their healthcare provider for further evaluation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Advise patients on the risks of experiencing gastrointestinal reactions such as nausea , constipation , diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and mucositis .
Ask patients to report these events to their healthcare provider and advise patients how to manage them [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with REZLIDHIA and for 2 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Dosing and Storage Instructions • Advise patients to swallow capsules whole .
Do not break , open , or chew the capsules .
• Advise patients to take REZLIDHIA on an empty stomach ( at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal ) .
• Advise patients that if a dose of REZLIDHIA is vomited , do not administer a replacement dose ; wait until the next scheduled dose is due .
• If a dose of REZLIDHIA is missed or not taken at the usual time , instruct patients to take the dose as soon as possible unless the next dose is due within 8 hours .
Patients can return to the normal schedule the following day .
• Store REZLIDHIA at room temperature from 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured by Catalent Greenville , Inc . 1240 Sugg Pkwy , Greenville , NC 27834 Manufactured for Rigel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South San Francisco , CA 94080 REZLIDHIA ™ is a trademark of Rigel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
For more information go to www . REZLIDHIA . com or call 1 - 800 - 983 - 1329 .
12 / 2022 Rev 02 MEDICATION GUIDE REZLIDHIA ™ ( REZ - LID - EE - AH ) ( olutasidenib ) capsules What is the most important information I should know about REZLIDHIA ?
REZLIDHIA may cause serious side effects including : • Differentiation Syndrome .
Differentiation syndrome is a condition that affects your blood cells and may be life - threatening or lead to death .
Differentiation syndrome in adults with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) has occurred as early as 1 day and up to 18 months after starting REZLIDHIA .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you develop any of the following symptoms of differentiation syndrome during treatment with REZLIDHIA : • fever • cough • trouble breathing • decreased urination • dizziness or lightheadedness • weight gain • swelling of your arms or legs If you develop signs and symptoms of differentiation syndrome , your healthcare provider may treat you with a corticosteroid medicine or a medicine called hydroxyurea and may monitor you in the hospital .
See " What are the possible side effects of REZLIDHIA ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is REZLIDHIA ?
REZLIDHIA is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with an isocitrate dehydrogenase - 1 ( IDH1 ) mutation when the disease has come back or has not improved after previous treatment ( s ) .
Your healthcare provider will perform a test to make sure that REZLIDHIA is right for you .
It is not known if REZLIDHIA is safe and effective in children .
Before taking REZLIDHIA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
REZLIDHIA may harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if REZLIDHIA passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during your treatment with REZLIDHIA and for 2 weeks after your last dose of REZLIDHIA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I take REZLIDHIA ?
• Take REZLIDHIA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Do not change your dose or stop taking REZLIDHIA without talking to your healthcare provider .
• Take REZLIDHIA 2 times a day ( about 12 hours apart ) around the same times each day .
• Take REZLIDHIA on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal .
• Swallow REZLIDHIA capsules whole .
Do not break , open or chew the capsules .
• If you vomit after taking a dose of REZLIDHIA , do not take another dose .
Take your next dose at your usual time .
• If you miss a dose of REZLIDHIA or did not take it at the usual time , take your dose as soon as possible and at least 8 hours before your next dose .
Return to your normal schedule the following day .
Do not take 2 doses of REZLIDHIA within 8 hours .
What are the possible side effects of REZLIDHIA ?
REZLIDHIA may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about REZLIDHIA ? ”
• Liver problems .
Changes in liver function tests are common during treatment with REZLIDHIA and can be serious .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your liver function before and during treatment with REZLIDHIA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following symptoms of liver problems during treatment with REZLIDHIA : • yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes ( jaundice ) • dark “ tea - colored ” urine • loss of appetite • pain on the upper right side of your stomach area • feeling very tired or weak The most common side effects of REZLIDHIA in adults with AML include : • abnormal liver function tests • nausea • feeling tired or unwell • joint pain • constipation • shortness of breath • fever • rash • mouth sores • diarrhea • changes in certain blood tests Tell your healthcare provider if you have any nausea , constipation , diarrhea , vomiting , stomach pain or mouth sores .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests before you start and during treatment with REZLIDHIA .
Your healthcare provider may decrease , temporarily hold , or permanently stop your treatment with REZLIDHIA if you develop certain side effects .
These are not all the possible side effects of REZLIDHIA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store REZLIDHIA ?
Store REZLIDHIA at room temperature from 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep REZLIDHIA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of REZLIDHIA Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not take REZLIDHIA for conditions for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give REZLIDHIA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about REZLIDHIA that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in REZLIDHIA ?
Active ingredient : olutasidenib Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
The capsule shell contains gelatin and titanium dioxide .
Each capsule is printed with black ink containing ferrosoferric oxide , propylene glycol and shellac .
Manufactured by Catalent Greenville , Inc . 1240 Sugg Pkwy , Greenville , NC 27834 Manufactured for Rigel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
South San Francisco , CA 94080 REZLIDHIA ™ is a trademark of Rigel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
For more information go to www . REZLIDHIA . com or call 1 - 800 - 983 - 1329 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 12 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - REZLIDHIA - NDC 71332 - 005 - 01 - 150 mg Capsule 30 - Count Carton Label NDC : 71332 - 005 - 01 Rx only REZLIDHIA olutasidenib capsules 150 mg Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
30 capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
