WARNING : LIFE - THREATENING ( INCLUDING FATAL ) HEPATOTOXICITY and SKIN REACTIONS WARNING : LIFE - THREATENING ( INCLUDING FATAL ) HEPATOTOXICITY and SKIN REACTIONS HEPATOTOXICITY : Severe , life - threatening , and in some cases fatal hepatotoxicity , particularly in the first 18 weeks , has been reported in patients treated with nevirapine .
In some cases , patients presented with non - specific prodromal signs or symptoms of hepatitis and progressed to hepatic failure .
These events are often associated with rash .
Female gender and higher CD4 + cell counts at initiation of therapy place patients at increased risk ; women with CD4 + cell counts greater than 250 cells / mm3 , including pregnant women receiving nevirapine tablets in combination with other antiretrovirals for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection , are at the greatest risk .
However , hepatotoxicity associated with nevirapine use can occur in both genders , all CD4 + cell counts and at any time during treatment .
Hepatic failure has also been reported in patients without HIV taking nevirapine for post - exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) .
Use of nevirapine for occupational and non - occupational PEP is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Patients with signs or symptoms of hepatitis , or with increased transaminases combined with rash or other systemic symptoms , must discontinue nevirapine and seek medical evaluation immediately [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
SKIN REACTIONS : Severe , life - threatening skin reactions , including fatal cases , have occurred in patients treated with nevirapine .
These have included cases of Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and hypersensitivity reactions characterized by rash , constitutional findings , and organ dysfunction .
Patients developing signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions or hypersensitivity reactions must discontinue nevirapine and seek medical evaluation immediately .
Transaminase levels should be checked immediately for all patients who develop a rash in the first 18 weeks of treatment .
The 14 - day lead - in period with nevirapine 200 mg daily dosing has been observed to decrease the incidence of rash and must be followed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
MONITORING FOR HEPATOTOXICITY AND SKIN REACTIONS : Patients must be monitored intensively during the first 18 weeks of therapy with nevirapine to detect potentially life - threatening hepatotoxicity or skin reactions .
Extra vigilance is warranted during the first 6 weeks of therapy , which is the period of greatest risk of these events .
Do not restart nevirapine following clinical hepatitis , or transaminase elevations combined with rash or other systemic symptoms , or following severe skin rash or hypersensitivity reactions .
In some cases , hepatic injury has progressed despite discontinuation of treatment .
WARNING : LIFE - THREATENING ( INCLUDING FATAL ) HEPATOTOXICITY and SKIN REACTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Fatal and non - fatal hepatotoxicity have been reported in patients taking nevirapine tablets .
Discontinue immediately if clinical hepatitis or transaminase elevations combined with rash or other systemic symptoms occur .
Do not restart nevirapine tablets after recovery .
( 5 . 1 ) • Fatal and non - fatal skin reactions , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and hypersensitivity reactions , have been reported .
Discontinue immediately if severe skin reactions , hypersensitivity reactions , or any rash with systemic symptoms occur .
Check transaminase levels immediately for all patients who develop a rash in the first 18 weeks of treatment .
Do not restart nevirapine tablets after recovery .
( 5 . 2 ) • Monitoring during the first 18 weeks of therapy is essential .
Extra vigilance is warranted during the first 6 weeks of therapy , which is the period of greatest risk of these events .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Nevirapine tablets are indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - 1 ) infection in adults and pediatric patients 15 days and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
Limitations of Use : Based on serious and life - threatening hepatotoxicity observed in controlled and uncontrolled trials , nevirapine tablets is not recommended to be initiated , unless the benefit outweighs the risk , in : • adult females with CD4 + cell counts greater than 250 cells / mm3 or • adult males with CD4 + cell counts greater than 400 cells / mm3 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Nevirapine tablets are an NNRTI indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV - 1 ) infection in adults and pediatric patients 15 days and older .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Based on serious and life - threatening hepatotoxicity observed in controlled and uncontrolled trials , nevirapine tablets is not recommended to be initiated , unless the benefit outweighs the risk , in : • adult females with CD4 + cell counts greater than 250 cells / mm3 • adult males with CD4 + cell counts greater than 400 cells / mm3 ( 1 , 5 . 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • The 14 - day lead - in period must be strictly followed ; it has been demonstrated to reduce the frequency of rash .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 2 ) • If any patient experiences rash during the 14 - day lead - in period , do not increase dose until the rash has resolved .
Do not continue the lead - in dosing regimen beyond 28 days .
( 2 . 4 ) • If dosing is interrupted for greater than 7 days , restart 14 - day lead - in dosing .
( 2 . 4 ) Adults Pediatric Patients * ( ≥ 16 yrs ) ( ≥ 15 days ) First 14 days 200 mg once daily 150 mg / m2 once daily After 14 days 200 mg twice daily 150 mg / m2 twice daily * Total daily dose should not exceed 400 mg for any patient .
2 . 1 Adult Patients The recommended dose for nevirapine tablets is one 200 mg tablet daily for the first 14 days , followed by one 200 mg tablet twice daily , in combination with other antiretroviral agents .
The 14 - day lead - in period with nevirapine tablets 200 mg daily dosing must be strictly followed as the lead - in period has been observed to decrease the incidence of rash [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
If rash persists beyond the 14 - day lead - in period , do not dose escalate to 200 mg twice daily .
The 200 mg once - daily dosing regimen should not be continued beyond 28 days , at which point , an alternative regimen should be sought .
For concomitantly administered antiretroviral therapy , the manufacturer ’ s recommended dosage and monitoring should be followed .
2 . 3 Monitoring of Patients Intensive clinical and laboratory monitoring , including liver enzyme tests , is essential at baseline and during the first 18 weeks of treatment with nevirapine tablets .
The optimal frequency of monitoring during this period has not been established .
Some experts recommend clinical and laboratory monitoring more often than once per month , and in particular , would include monitoring of liver enzyme tests at baseline , prior to dose escalation , and at two weeks post - dose escalation .
After the initial 18 - week period , frequent clinical and laboratory monitoring should continue throughout nevirapine tablets treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
In some cases , hepatic injury has progressed despite discontinuation of treatment .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment Patients with Rash Discontinue nevirapine tablets if a patient experiences severe rash or any rash accompanied by constitutional findings [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Do not increase nevirapine tablets dose if a patient experiences mild to moderate rash without constitutional symptoms during the 14 - day lead - in period of 200 mg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day in pediatric patients ) until the rash has resolved [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The total duration of the once daily lead - in dosing period should not exceed 28 days at which point an alternative regimen should be sought .
Patients with Hepatic Events If a clinical ( symptomatic ) hepatic event occurs , permanently discontinue nevirapine tablets .
Do not restart nevirapine after recovery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with Dose Interruption For patients who interrupt nevirapine dosing for more than 7 days , restart the recommended dosing , using one 200 mg tablet daily ( 150 mg / m2 / day in pediatric patients ) for the first 14 days ( lead - in ) followed by one 200 mg tablet twice daily ( 150 mg / m2 twice daily for pediatric patients ) .
Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with CrCl greater than or equal to 20 mL per min do not require an adjustment in nevirapine dosing .
The pharmacokinetics of nevirapine have not been evaluated in patients with CrCl less than 20 mL per min .
An additional 200 mg dose of nevirapine following each dialysis treatment is indicated in patients requiring dialysis .
Nevirapine metabolites may accumulate in patients receiving dialysis ; however , the clinical significance of this accumulation is not known [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Nevirapine Tablets , USP : 200 mg , white to off white , oval , biconvex , uncoated tablets having “ M ” and “ L ” debossed on one side , with a deep score separating the “ M ” & “ L ” and “ 1 ” and “ 1 ” debossed on the other side with a breakline separating “ 1 ” and “ 1 ” .
• 200 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nevirapine is contraindicated : • in patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh Class B or C , respectively ) hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
• for use as part of occupational and non - occupational post - exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) regimens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh Class B or C , respectively ) hepatic impairment .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 7 ) • Use as part of occupational and non - occupational post - exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) regimens , an unapproved use .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Monitor patients for immune reconstitution syndrome and fat redistribution .
( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hepatotoxicity and Hepatic Impairment Severe , life - threatening , and in some cases fatal hepatotoxicity , including fulminant and cholestatic hepatitis , hepatic necrosis and hepatic failure , have been reported in patients treated with nevirapine tablets .
In controlled clinical trials , symptomatic hepatic events regardless of severity occurred in 4 % ( range 0 % to 11 % ) of subjects who received nevirapine and 1 % of subjects in control groups .
The risk of symptomatic hepatic events regardless of severity was greatest in the first 6 weeks of therapy .
The risk continued to be greater in the nevirapine groups compared to controls through 18 weeks of treatment .
However , hepatic events may occur at any time during treatment .
In some cases , subjects presented with nonspecific , prodromal signs or symptoms of fatigue , malaise , anorexia , nausea , jaundice , liver tenderness or hepatomegaly , with or without initially abnormal serum transaminase levels .
Rash was observed in approximately half of the subjects with symptomatic hepatic adverse events .
Fever and flu - like symptoms accompanied some of these hepatic events .
Some events , particularly those with rash and other symptoms , have progressed to hepatic failure with transaminase elevation , with or without hyperbilirubinemia , hepatic encephalopathy , prolonged partial thromboplastin time , or eosinophilia .
Rhabdomyolysis has been observed in some patients experiencing skin and / or liver reactions associated with nevirapine use .
Hepatitis / hepatic failure may be associated with signs of hypersensitivity which can include severe rash or rash accompanied by fever , general malaise , fatigue , muscle or joint aches , blisters , oral lesions , conjunctivitis , facial edema , eosinophilia , granulocytopenia , lymphadenopathy , or renal dysfunction .
Patients with signs or symptoms of hepatitis must be advised to discontinue nevirapine and immediately seek medical evaluation , which should include liver enzyme tests .
The first 18 weeks of therapy with nevirapine are a critical period during which intensive clinical and laboratory monitoring of patients is required to detect potentially life - threatening hepatic events .
The optimal frequency of monitoring during this time period has not been established .
Some experts recommend clinical and laboratory monitoring more often than once per month , and in particular , include monitoring of liver enzyme tests at baseline , prior to dose escalation and at two weeks post - dose escalation .
After the initial 18 - week period , frequent clinical and laboratory monitoring should continue throughout nevirapine treatment .
Transaminases should be checked immediately if a patient experiences signs or symptoms suggestive of hepatitis and / or hypersensitivity reaction .
Transaminases should also be checked immediately for all patients who develop a rash in the first 18 weeks of treatment .
Physicians and patients should be vigilant for the appearance of signs or symptoms of hepatitis , such as fatigue , malaise , anorexia , nausea , jaundice , bilirubinuria , acholic stools , liver tenderness or hepatomegaly .
The diagnosis of hepatotoxicity should be considered in this setting , even if transaminases are initially normal or alternative diagnoses are possible [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
If clinical hepatitis or transaminase elevations combined with rash or other systemic symptoms occur , permanently discontinue nevirapine .
Do not restart nevirapine after recovery .
In some cases , hepatic injury progresses despite discontinuation of treatment .
The patients at greatest risk of hepatic events , including potentially fatal events , are women with high CD4 + cell counts .
In general , during the first 6 weeks of treatment , women have a 3 - fold higher risk than men for symptomatic , often rash - associated , hepatic events ( 6 % versus 2 % ) , and patients with higher CD4 + cell counts at initiation of nevirapine therapy are at higher risk for symptomatic hepatic events with nevirapine .
In a retrospective review , women with CD4 + cell counts greater than 250 cells / mm3 had a 12 - fold higher risk of symptomatic hepatic adverse events compared to women with CD4 + cell counts less than 250 cells / mm3 ( 11 % versus 1 % ) .
An increased risk was observed in men with CD4 + cell counts greater than 400 cells / mm3 ( 6 % versus 1 % for men with CD4 + cell counts less than 400 cells / mm3 ) .
However , all patients , regardless of gender , CD4 + cell count , or antiretroviral treatment history , should be monitored for hepatotoxicity since symptomatic hepatic adverse events have been reported at all CD4 + cell counts .
Co - infection with hepatitis B or C and / or increased transaminase elevations at the start of therapy with nevirapine are associated with a greater risk of later symptomatic events ( 6 weeks or more after starting nevirapine tablets ) and asymptomatic increases in AST or ALT .
In addition , serious hepatotoxicity ( including liver failure requiring transplantation in one instance ) has been reported in HIV - 1 uninfected individuals receiving multiple doses of nevirapine in the setting of post - exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) , an unapproved use .
Use of nevirapine for occupational and non - occupational PEP is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Increased nevirapine trough concentrations have been observed in some patients with hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis .
Therefore , carefully monitor patients with either hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis for evidence of drug - induced toxicity .
Do not administer nevirapine to patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh Class B or C , respectively ) hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Skin Reactions Severe and life - threatening skin reactions , including fatal cases , have been reported , occurring most frequently during the first 6 weeks of therapy .
These have included cases of Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and hypersensitivity reactions characterized by rash , constitutional findings , and organ dysfunction including hepatic failure .
Rhabdomyolysis has been observed in some patients experiencing skin and / or liver reactions associated with nevirapine use .
In controlled clinical trials , Grade 3 and 4 rashes were reported during the first 6 weeks in 2 % of nevirapine recipients compared to less than 1 % of placebo subjects .
Patients developing signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions or hypersensitivity reactions ( including , but not limited to , severe rash or rash accompanied by fever , general malaise , fatigue , muscle or joint aches , blisters , oral lesions , conjunctivitis , facial edema , and / or hepatitis , eosinophilia , granulocytopenia , lymphadenopathy , and renal dysfunction ) must permanently discontinue nevirapine and seek medical evaluation immediately .
Do not restart nevirapine following severe skin rash , skin rash combined with increased transaminases or other symptoms , or hypersensitivity reaction .
The first 18 weeks of therapy with nevirapine are a critical period during which intensive clinical and laboratory monitoring of patients is required to detect potentially life - threatening skin reactions .
The optimal frequency of monitoring during this time period has not been established .
Some experts recommend clinical and laboratory monitoring more often than once per month , and in particular , include monitoring of liver enzyme tests at baseline , prior to dose escalation and at two weeks post - dose escalation .
After the initial 18 - week period , frequent clinical and laboratory monitoring should continue throughout nevirapine treatment .
In addition , the 14 - day lead - in period with nevirapine 200 mg daily dosing has been demonstrated to reduce the frequency of rash [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
If patients present with a suspected nevirapine - associated rash , measure transaminases immediately .
Permanently discontinue nevirapine in patients with rash - associated transaminase elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Therapy with nevirapine must be initiated with a 14 - day lead - in period of 200 mg per day ( 150 mg / m2 per day in pediatric patients ) , which has been shown to reduce the frequency of rash .
Discontinue nevirapine if a patient experiences severe rash or any rash accompanied by constitutional findings .
Do not increase nevirapine tablets dose to a patient experiencing a mild to moderate rash without constitutional symptoms during the 14 - day lead - in period of 200 mg per day ( 150 mg / m2 / day in pediatric patients ) until the rash has resolved .
The total duration of the once - daily lead - in dosing period must not exceed 28 days at which point an alternative regimen should be sought [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Patients must be monitored closely if isolated rash of any severity occurs .
Delay in stopping nevirapine treatment after the onset of rash may result in a more serious reaction .
Women appear to be at higher risk than men of developing rash with nevirapine .
In a clinical trial , concomitant prednisone use ( 40 mg per day for the first 14 days of nevirapine tablets administration ) was associated with an increase in incidence and severity of rash during the first 6 weeks of nevirapine therapy .
Therefore , use of prednisone to prevent nevirapine tablets - associated rash is not recommended .
5 . 3 Resistance Nevirapine must not be used as a single agent to treat HIV - 1 or added on as a sole agent to a failing regimen .
Resistant virus emerges rapidly when nevirapine is administered as monotherapy .
The choice of new antiretroviral agents to be used in combination with nevirapine should take into consideration the potential for cross resistance .
When discontinuing an antiretroviral regimen containing nevirapine , the long half - life of nevirapine should be taken into account ; if antiretrovirals with shorter half - lives than nevirapine are stopped concurrently , low plasma concentrations of nevirapine alone may persist for a week or longer and virus resistance may subsequently develop [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Drug Interactions See Table 4 for listings of established and potential drug interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Concomitant use of St . John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) or St . John ' s wort - containing products and nevirapine is not recommended .
Co - administration of St . John ’ s wort with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NNRTIs ) , including nevirapine , is expected to substantially decrease NNRTI concentrations and may result in sub - optimal levels of nevirapine and lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to nevirapine or to the class of NNRTIs .
Coadministration of nevirapine and efavirenz is not recommended as this combination has been associated with an increase in adverse reactions and no improvement in efficacy .
5 . 5 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy , including nevirapine .
During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment , patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections ( such as Mycobacterium avium infection , cytomegalovirus , Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia , or tuberculosis ) , which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment .
Autoimmune disorders ( such as Graves ’ disease , polymyositis , and Guillain - Barré syndrome ) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution , however , the time to onset is more variable , and can occur many months after initiation of treatment .
5 . 6 Fat Redistribution Redistribution / accumulation of body fat including central obesity , dorsocervical fat enlargement ( buffalo hump ) , peripheral wasting , facial wasting , breast enlargement , and “ cushingoid appearance ” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy .
The mechanism and long - term consequences of these events are currently unknown .
A causal relationship has not been established .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • The most common adverse reaction is rash .
In adults , the incidence of rash is 15 % versus 6 % with placebo , with Grade 3 / 4 rash occurring in 2 % of subjects .
( 6 . 1 ) • In pediatric subjects the incidence of rash ( all causality ) was 21 % .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or 1 - 855 - 926 - 3384 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trial Experience in Adult Patients The most serious adverse reactions associated with nevirapine are hepatitis , hepatic failure , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and hypersensitivity reactions .
Hepatitis / hepatic failure may be isolated or associated with signs of hypersensitivity which may include severe rash or rash accompanied by fever , general malaise , fatigue , muscle or joint aches , blisters , oral lesions , conjunctivitis , facial edema , eosinophilia , granulocytopenia , lymphadenopathy , or renal dysfunction [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatic Reaction In controlled clinical trials , symptomatic hepatic events regardless of severity occurred in 4 % ( range 0 % to 11 % ) of subjects who received nevirapine and 1 % of subjects in control groups .
Female gender and higher CD4 + cell counts ( greater than 250 cells / mm3 in women and greater than 400 cells / mm3 in men ) place patients at increased risk of these events [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Asymptomatic transaminase elevations ( AST or ALT greater than 5 X ULN ) were observed in 6 % ( range 0 % to 9 % ) of subjects who received nevirapine and 6 % of subjects in control groups .
Co - infection with hepatitis B or C and / or increased transaminase elevations at the start of therapy with nevirapine are associated with a greater risk of later symptomatic events ( 6 weeks or more after starting nevirapine ) and asymptomatic increases in AST or ALT .
Liver enzyme abnormalities ( AST , ALT , GGT ) were observed more frequently in subjects receiving nevirapine than in controls ( see Table 3 ) .
Skin Reaction The most common clinical toxicity of nevirapine is rash , which can be severe or life - threatening [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Rash occurs most frequently within the first 6 weeks of therapy .
Rashes are usually mild to moderate , maculopapular erythematous cutaneous eruptions , with or without pruritus , located on the trunk , face and extremities .
In controlled clinical trials ( Trials 1037 , 1038 , 1046 , and 1090 ) , Grade 1 and 2 rashes were reported in 13 % of subjects receiving nevirapine compared to 6 % receiving placebo during the first 6 weeks of therapy .
Grade 3 and 4 rashes were reported in 2 % of nevirapine recipients compared to less than 1 % of subjects receiving placebo .
Women tend to be at higher risk for development of nevirapine - associated rash [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Treatment - related , adverse experiences of moderate or severe intensity observed in greater than 2 % of subjects receiving nevirapine in placebo - controlled trials are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Percentage of Subjects with Moderate or Severe Drug - Related Events in Adult Placebo - Controlled Trials Trial 10901 Trials 1037 , 1038 , 10462 Nevirapine Placebo Nevirapine Placebo ( n = 1121 ) ( n = 1128 ) ( n = 253 ) ( n = 203 ) Median exposure ( weeks ) 58 52 28 28 Any adverse event 15 % 11 % 32 % 13 % Rash 5 2 7 2 Nausea 1 1 9 4 Granulocytopenia 2 3 < 1 0 Headache 1 < 1 4 1 Fatigue < 1 < 1 5 4 Diarrhea < 1 1 2 1 Abdominal pain < 1 < 1 2 0 Myalgia < 1 0 1 2 1 Background therapy included 3 TC for all subjects and combinations of NRTIs and PIs .
Subjects had CD4 + cell counts less than 200 cells / mm3 .
2 Background therapy included ZDV and ZDV + ddI ; nevirapine monotherapy was administered in some subjects .
Subjects had CD4 + cell count greater than or equal to 200 cells / mm3 .
Laboratory Abnormalities Liver enzyme test abnormalities ( AST , ALT ) were observed more frequently in subjects receiving nevirapine than in controls ( Table 3 ) .
Asymptomatic elevations in GGT occur frequently but are not a contraindication to continue nevirapine therapy in the absence of elevations in other liver enzyme tests .
Other laboratory abnormalities ( bilirubin , anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia ) were observed with similar frequencies in clinical trials comparing nevirapine and control regimens ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 Percentage of Adult Subjects with Laboratory Abnormalities Trial 10901 Trials 1037 , 1038 , 10462 Nevirapine Placebo Nevirapine Placebo Laboratory Abnormality ( n = 1121 ) ( n = 1128 ) ( n = 253 ) ( n = 203 ) Blood Chemistry SGPT ( ALT ) > 250 U / L 5 4 14 4 SGOT ( AST ) > 250 U / L 4 3 8 2 Bilirubin > 2 . 5 mg / dL 2 2 2 2 Hematology Hemoglobin < 8 . 0 g / dL 3 4 0 0 Platelets < 50 , 000 / mm3 1 1 < 1 2 Neutrophils < 750 / mm3 13 14 4 1 1 Background therapy included 3 TC for all subjects and combinations of NRTIs and PIs .
Subjects had CD4 + ell counts less than 200 cells / mm3 .
2 Background therapy included ZDV and ZDV + ddI ; nevirapine monotherapy was administered in some subjects .
Subjects had CD4 + cell count greater than or equal to 200 cells / mm3 .
Clinical Trial Experience in Pediatric Patients Adverse events were assessed in BI Trial 1100 . 1032 ( ACTG 245 ) , a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of nevirapine ( n = 305 ) in which pediatric subjects received combination treatment with nevirapine .
In this trial two subjects were reported to experience Stevens - Johnson syndrome or Stevens - Johnson / toxic epidermal necrolysis transition syndrome .
Safety was also assessed in trial BI 1100 . 882 ( ACTG 180 ) , an open - label trial of nevirapine tablets ( n = 37 ) in which subjects were followed for a mean duration of 33 . 9 months ( range : 6 . 8 months to 5 . 3 years , including long - term follow - up in 29 of these subjects in trial BI 1100 . 892 ) .
The most frequently reported adverse events related to nevirapine tablets in pediatric subjects were similar to those observed in adults , with the exception of granulocytopenia , which was more commonly observed in children receiving both zidovudine and nevirapine .
Cases of allergic reaction , including one case of anaphylaxis , were also reported .
The safety of nevirapine was also examined in BI Trial 1100 . 1368 , an open - label , randomized clinical trial performed in South Africa in which 123 HIV - 1 infected treatment - naïve subjects between 3 months and 16 years of age received combination treatment with nevirapine oral suspension , lamivudine and zidovudine for 48 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Rash ( all causality ) was reported in 21 % of the subjects , 4 ( 3 % ) of whom discontinued drug due to rash .
All 4 subjects experienced the rash early in the course of therapy ( less than 4 weeks ) and resolved upon nevirapine discontinuation .
Other clinically important adverse events ( all causality ) include neutropenia ( 9 % ) , anemia ( 7 % ) , and hepatotoxicity ( 2 % ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Safety information on use of nevirapine in combination therapy in pediatric subjects 2 weeks to less than 3 months of age was assessed in 36 subjects from the BI 1100 . 1222 ( PACTG 356 ) trial .
No unexpected safety findings were observed although granulocytopenia was reported more frequently in this age group compared to the older pediatric age groups and adults .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse events identified during clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of nevirapine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : fever , somnolence , drug withdrawal [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , redistribution / accumulation of body fat [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Gastrointestinal : vomiting Liver and Biliary : jaundice , fulminant and cholestatic hepatitis , hepatic necrosis , hepatic failure Hematology : anemia , eosinophilia , neutropenia Investigations : decreased serum phosphorus Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , rhabdomyolysis associated with skin and / or liver reactions Neurologic : paraesthesia Skin and Appendages : Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , bullous eruptions , ulcerative stomatitis and urticaria have all been reported .
In addition , hypersensitivity syndrome and hypersensitivity reactions with rash associated with constitutional findings such as fever , blistering , oral lesions , conjunctivitis , facial edema , muscle or joint aches , general malaise , fatigue , or significant hepatic abnormalities , drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] plus one or more of the following : hepatitis , eosinophilia , granulocytopenia , lymphadenopathy , and / or renal dysfunction have been reported .
In post - marketing surveillance anemia has been more commonly observed in children although development of anemia due to concomitant medication use cannot be ruled out .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nevirapine is principally metabolized by the liver via the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes , 3 A and 2B6 .
Nevirapine is known to be an inducer of these enzymes .
As a result , drugs that are metabolized by these enzyme systems may have lower than expected plasma levels when co - administered with nevirapine .
The specific pharmacokinetic changes that occur with co - administration of nevirapine and other drugs are listed in Clinical Pharmacology , Table 5 .
Clinical comments about possible dosage modifications based on established drug interactions are listed in Table 4 .
The data in Tables 4 and 5 are based on the results of drug interaction trials conducted in HIV - 1 seropositive subjects unless otherwise indicated .
In addition to established drug interactions , there may be potential pharmacokinetic interactions between nevirapine and other drug classes that are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system .
These potential drug interactions are also listed in Table 4 .
Although specific drug interaction trials in HIV - 1 seropositive subjects have not been conducted for some classes of drugs listed in Table 4 , additional clinical monitoring may be warranted when co - administering these drugs .
The in vitro interaction between nevirapine and the antithrombotic agent warfarin is complex .
As a result , when giving these drugs concomitantly , plasma warfarin levels may change with the potential for increases in coagulation time .
When warfarin is co - administered with nevirapine , anticoagulation levels should be monitored frequently .
Table 4 Established and Potential Drug Interactions : Use with Caution , Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Needed Due to Drug Interaction Established Drug Interactions : See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Table 5 for Magnitude of Interaction .
Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Nevirapine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment HIV Antiviral Agents : Protease Inhibitors ( PIs ) Atazanavir / Ritonavir * ↓ Atazanavir ↑ Nevirapine Do not co - administer nevirapine with atazanavir because nevirapine substantially decreases atazanavir exposure and there is a potential risk for nevirapine - associated toxicity due to increased nevirapine exposures .
Fosamprenavir * ↓ Amprenavir ↑ Nevirapine Co - administration of nevirapine and fosamprenavir without ritonavir is not recommended .
Fosamprenavir / Ritonavir * ↓ Amprenavir ↑ Nevirapine No dosing adjustments are required when nevirapine is co - administered with 700 / 100 mg of fosamprenavir / ritonavir twice daily .
The combination of nevirapine administered with fosamprenavir / ritonavir once daily has not been studied .
Indinavir * ↓ Indinavir The appropriate doses of this combination of indinavir and nevirapine with respect to efficacy and safety have not been established .
Lopinavir / Ritonavir * ↓ Lopinavir Dosing in adult patients : A dose adjustment of lopinavir / ritonavir to 500 / 125 mg tablets twice daily or 533 / 133 mg ( 6 . 5 mL ) oral solution twice daily is recommended when used in combination with nevirapine .
Neither lopinavir / ritonavir tablets nor oral solution should be administered once daily in combination with nevirapine .
Dosing in pediatric patients : Please refer to the Kaletra ® prescribing information for dosing recommendations based on body surface area and body weight .
Neither lopinavir / ritonavir tablets nor oral solution should be administered once daily in combination with nevirapine .
Nelfinavir * ↓ Nelfinavir M8 Metabolite ↓ Nelfinavir Cmin The appropriate doses of the combination of nevirapine and nelfinavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established .
Saquinavir / Ritonavir The interaction between nevirapine and saquinavir / ritonavir has not been evaluated The appropriate doses of the combination of nevirapine and saquinavir / ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established .
HIV Antiviral Agents : Non - Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors ( NNRTIs ) Efavirenz * ↓ Efavirenz The appropriate doses of these combinations with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established .
Etravirine Rilpivirine Plasma concentrations may be altered .
Nevirapine should not be co - administered with another NNRTI as this combination has not been shown to be beneficial .
Other Agents Analgesics : Methadone * ↓ Methadone Methadone levels were decreased ; increased dosages may be required to prevent symptoms of opiate withdrawal .
Methadone - maintained patients beginning nevirapine therapy should be monitored for evidence of withdrawal and methadone dose should be adjusted accordingly .
Antiarrhythmics : Amiodarone , disopyramide , lidocaine Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for this combination have not been established .
Antibiotics : Clarithromycin * ↓ Clarithromycin ↑ 14 - OH clarithromycin Clarithromycin exposure was significantly decreased by nevirapine ; however , 14 - OH metabolite concentrations were increased .
Because clarithromycin active metabolite has reduced activity against Mycobacterium avium - intracellulare complex , overall activity against this pathogen may be altered .
Alternatives to clarithromycin , such as azithromycin , should be considered .
Rifabutin * ↑ Rifabutin Rifabutin and its metabolite concentrations were moderately increased .
Due to high intersubject variability , however , some patients may experience large increases in rifabutin exposure and may be at higher risk for rifabutin toxicity .
Therefore , caution should be used in concomitant administration .
Rifampin * ↓ Nevirapine Nevirapine and rifampin should not be administered concomitantly because decreases in nevirapine plasma concentrations may reduce the efficacy of the drug .
Physicians needing to treat patients co - infected with tuberculosis and using a nevirapine - containing regimen may use rifabutin instead .
Anticonvulsants : Carbamazepine , clonazepam , ethosuximide Plasma concentrations of nevirapine and the anticonvulsant may be decreased .
Use with caution and monitor virologic response and levels of anticonvulsants .
Antifungals : Fluconazole * ↑ Nevirapine Because of the risk of increased exposure to nevirapine , caution should be used in concomitant administration , and patients should be monitored closely for nevirapine - associated adverse events .
Ketoconazole * ↓ Ketoconazole Nevirapine and ketoconazole should not be administered concomitantly because decreases in ketoconazole plasma concentrations may reduce the efficacy of the drug .
Itraconazole ↓ Itraconazole Nevirapine and itraconazole should not be administered concomitantly due to potential decreases in itraconazole plasma concentrations that may reduce efficacy of the drug .
Antithrombotics : Warfarin Plasma concentrations may be increased .
Potential effect on anticoagulation .
Monitoring of anticoagulation levels is recommended .
Calcium Channel blockers : Diltiazem , nifedipine , verapamil Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for these combinations have not been established .
Cancer Chemotherapy : Cyclophosphamide Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for this combination have not been established .
Ergot Alkaloids : Ergotamine Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for this combination have not been established .
Immunosuppressants : Cyclosporine , tacrolimus , sirolimus Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for these combinations have not been established .
Motility Agents : Cisapride Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for this combination have not been established .
Opiate Agonists : Fentanyl Plasma concentrations may be decreased .
Appropriate doses for this combination have not been established .
Oral Contraceptives : Ethinyl estradiol and Norethindrone * ↓ Ethinyl Estradiol ↓ Norethindrone Despite lower ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone exposures when co - administered with nevirapine , literature reports suggest that nevirapine has no effect on pregnancy rates among HIV - infected women on combined oral contraceptives .
When co - administered with nevirapine , no dose adjustment of ethinyl estradiol or norethindrone is needed when used in combination for contraception .
When these oral contraceptives are used for hormonal regulation during nevirapine therapy , the therapeutic effect of the hormonal therapy should be monitored .
* The interaction between nevirapine and the drug was evaluated in a clinical study .
All other drug interactions shown are predicted .
Co - administration of nevirapine tablets can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of nevirapine .
The potential for drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy .
( 5 . 4 , 7 , 12 . 3 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Women infected with HIV - 1 should  be instructed not to breastfeed due to the potential for HIV - 1 transmission .
( 8 . 2 ) • No dose adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment with a creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 20 mL per min .
Patients on dialysis receive an additional dose of 200 mg following each dialysis treatment .
( 2 . 4 , 8 . 6 ) • Monitor patients with hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis carefully for evidence of drug - induced toxicity .
Do not administer nevirapine tablets to patients with Child - Pugh B or C . ( 5 . 1 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to nevirapine during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry ( APR ) at 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Risk Summary Available data from the APR show no difference in the risk of overall major birth defects for nevirapine compared with the background rate for major birth defects of 2 . 7 % in the U . S . reference population of the Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program ( MACDP ) [ see Data ] .
The rate of miscarriage is not reported in the APR .
The estimated background rate of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies in the U . S . general population is 15 - 20 % .
The background risk of birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Methodological limitations of the APR include the use of MACDP as the external comparator group .
The MACDP population is not disease - specific , evaluates women and infants from a limited geographic area , and does not include outcomes for births that occurred at < 20 weeks gestation .
In literature reports , immediate - release nevirapine exposure ( Cmin ) can be up to 29 % lower during pregnancy .
However , as this reduction was not found to be clinically meaningful , dose adjustment is not necessary [ see Data ] .
There is a risk for severe hepatic events in pregnant women exposed to nevirapine [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes was observed following oral administration of nevirapine during organogenesis in the rat and rabbit , at systemic exposures ( AUC ) to nevirapine approximately equal ( rats ) and 50 % higher ( rabbits ) than the exposure in humans at the recommended 400 mg daily dose [ see Data ] .
Clinical Considerations Maternal adverse reactions Severe hepatic events , including fatalities , have been reported in pregnant women receiving chronic nevirapine therapy as part of combination treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
Regardless of pregnancy status , women with CD4 + cell counts greater than 250 cells / mm3 should not initiate nevirapine unless the benefit outweighs the risk .
It is unclear if pregnancy augments the risk observed in non - pregnant women [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Data Human Data Based on prospective reports to the APR of exposures to nevirapine during pregnancy resulting in live births ( including over 1100 exposed in the first trimester and over 1500 exposed in the second / third trimester ) , the prevalence of birth defects in live births was 3 . 0 % ( 95 % CI : 2 . 1 % , 4 . 1 % ) and 3 . 3 % ( 95 % CI : 2 . 4 % , 4 . 3 % ) following first and second / third trimester exposure , respectively , to nevirapine - containing regimens , compared with the background birth defect rate of 2 . 7 % in a U . S . reference population of the MACDP .
There are several literature reports of chronic administration of immediate - release nevirapine during pregnancy , in which nevirapine pharmacokinetics were compared between pregnancy and postpartum .
In these studies , the mean difference in nevirapine Cmin during pregnancy as compared to postpartum ranged from no difference to approximately 29 % lower .
Animal Data Nevirapine was administered orally to pregnant rats ( at 0 , 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 mg per kg per day ) and rabbits ( at 0 , 30 , 100 , and 300 mg per kg per day ) through organogenesis ( on gestation days 7 through 16 , and 6 through 18 , respectively ) .
No adverse developmental effects were observed at doses producing systemic exposures ( AUC ) approximately equivalent to ( rats ) or approximately 50 % higher ( rabbits ) than human exposure at the recommended daily dose .
In rats , decreased fetal body weights were observed at a maternally toxic dose at an exposure approximately 50 % higher than the recommended daily dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that HIV - 1 infected mothers in the United States not breastfeed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 infection .
Published data report that nevirapine is present in human milk [ see Data ] .
There are limited data on the effects of nevirapine on the breastfed infant .
There is no information on the effects of nevirapine on milk production .
Because of the potential for ( 1 ) HIV - 1 transmission ( in HIV - negative infants ) , ( 2 ) developing viral resistance ( in HIV - positive infants ) , and ( 3 ) serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , mothers should not breastfeed if they are receiving nevirapine .
Data Based on five publications , immediate - release nevirapine was excreted in breast milk at median concentrations ranging from 4080 to 6795 ng / mL , and the median maternal breast milk to maternal plasma concentration ratio range was 59 to 88 % .
Reported infant nevirapine median plasma concentrations were low , ranging from 734 to 1140 ng / mL .
The estimated nevirapine dose of 704 to 682 mcg / kg / day for infants fed exclusively with breast milk was lower than the daily recommended nevirapine dose for infants .
Published literature indicates that rash and hyperbilirubinemia have been seen in infants exposed to nevirapine through breastmilk .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Limited human data are insufficient to determine the risk of infertility in humans .
Based on results from animal fertility studies conducted in rats , nevirapine may reduce fertility in females of reproductive potential .
It is not known if these effects on fertility are reversible [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety , pharmacokinetic profile , and virologic and immunologic responses of nevirapine have been evaluated in HIV - 1 infected pediatric subjects aged 3 months to 18 years [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and pharmacokinetic profile of nevirapine has been evaluated in HIV - 1 infected pediatric subjects aged 15 days to less than 3 months [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The most frequently reported adverse events related to nevirapine in pediatric subjects were similar to those observed in adults , with the exception of granulocytopenia , which was more commonly observed in children receiving both zidovudine and nevirapine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of nevirapine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether elderly subjects respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In subjects with renal impairment ( mild , moderate or severe ) , there were no significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of nevirapine .
Nevirapine is extensively metabolized by the liver and nevirapine metabolites are extensively eliminated by the kidney .
Nevirapine metabolites may accumulate in patients receiving dialysis ; however , the clinical significance of this accumulation is not known .
No adjustment in nevirapine dosing is required in patients with CrCl greater than or equal to 20 mL per min .
The pharmacokinetics of nevirapine have not been evaluated in patients with CrCl less than 20 mL per min .
In patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis , an additional 200 mg dose following each dialysis treatment is indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Because increased nevirapine levels and nevirapine accumulation may be observed in patients with serious liver disease , do not administer nevirapine to patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh Class B or C , respectively ) hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote for nevirapine overdosage .
Cases of nevirapine overdose at doses ranging from 800 to 1800 mg per day for up to 15 days have been reported .
Patients have experienced events including edema , erythema nodosum , fatigue , fever , headache , insomnia , nausea , pulmonary infiltrates , rash , vertigo , vomiting , and weight decrease .
All events subsided following discontinuation of nevirapine .
11 DESCRIPTION Nevirapine Tablets USP is the brand name for nevirapine , a non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor ( NNRTI ) with activity against Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 ( HIV - 1 ) .
Nevirapine is structurally a member of the dipyridodiazepinone chemical class of compounds .
The chemical name of nevirapine is 11 - cyclopropyl - 5 , 11 - dihydro - 4 - methyl - 6 H - dipyrido [ 3 , 2 - b : 2 ' , 3 ' - e ] [ 1 , 4 ] diazepin - 6 - one .
Nevirapine is a white to off - white crystalline powder with the molecular weight of 266 . 30 and the molecular formula C15H14N4O .
Nevirapine has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nevirapine Tablets , USP are for oral administration .
Each tablet contains 200 mg of nevirapine and the inactive ingredients microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , colloidal silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nevirapine is an antiretroviral drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Adults Absorption and Bioavailability Nevirapine is readily absorbed ( greater than 90 % ) after oral administration in healthy volunteers and in adults with HIV - 1 infection .
Absolute bioavailability in 12 healthy adults following single - dose administration was 93 ± 9 % ( mean ± SD ) for a 50 mg tablet and 91 ± 8 % for an oral solution .
Peak plasma nevirapine concentrations of 2 ± 0 . 4 mcg / mL ( 7 . 5 micromolar ) were attained by 4 hours following a single 200 mg dose .
Following multiple doses , nevirapine peak concentrations appear to increase linearly in the dose range of 200 to 400 mg / day .
Steady - state trough nevirapine concentrations of 4 . 5 ± 1 . 9 mcg / mL ( 17 ± 7 micromolar ) , ( n = 242 ) were attained at 400 mg per day .
Nevirapine tablets and suspension have been shown to be comparably bioavailable and interchangeable at doses up to 200 mg .
When nevirapine ( 200 mg ) was administered to 24 healthy adults ( 12 female , 12 male ) , with either a high - fat breakfast ( 857 kcal , 50 g fat , 53 % of calories from fat ) or antacid ( Maalox ® 30 mL ) , the extent of nevirapine absorption ( AUC ) was comparable to that observed under fasting conditions .
In a separate trial in HIV - 1 infected subjects ( n = 6 ) , nevirapine steady - state systemic exposure ( AUCτ ) was not significantly altered by didanosine , which is formulated with an alkaline buffering agent .
Nevirapine may be administered with or without food , antacid or didanosine .
Distribution Nevirapine is highly lipophilic and is essentially nonionized at physiologic pH . Following intravenous administration to healthy adults , the apparent volume of distribution ( Vdss ) of nevirapine was 1 . 21 ± 0 . 09 L / kg , suggesting that nevirapine is widely distributed in humans .
Nevirapine readily crosses the placenta and is also found in breast milk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Nevirapine is about 60 % bound to plasma proteins in the plasma concentration range of 1 - 10 mcg per mL .
Nevirapine concentrations in human cerebrospinal fluid ( n = 6 ) were 45 % ( ± 5 % ) of the concentrations in plasma ; this ratio is approximately equal to the fraction not bound to plasma protein .
Metabolism / Elimination In vivo trials in humans and in vitro studies with human liver microsomes have shown that nevirapine is extensively biotransformed via cytochrome P450 ( oxidative ) metabolism to several hydroxylated metabolites .
In vitro studies with human liver microsomes suggest that oxidative metabolism of nevirapine is mediated primarily by cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) isozymes from the CYP3A and CYP2B6 families , although other isozymes may have a secondary role .
In a mass balance / excretion trial in eight healthy male volunteers dosed to steady state with nevirapine 200 mg given twice daily followed by a single 50 mg dose of 14 C - nevirapine , approximately 91 . 4 ± 10 . 5 % of the radiolabeled dose was recovered , with urine ( 81 . 3 ± 11 . 1 % ) representing the primary route of excretion compared to feces ( 10 . 1 ± 1 . 5 % ) .
Greater than 80 % of the radioactivity in urine was made up of glucuronide conjugates of hydroxylated metabolites .
Thus cytochrome P450 metabolism , glucuronide conjugation , and urinary excretion of glucuronidated metabolites represent the primary route of nevirapine biotransformation and elimination in humans .
Only a small fraction ( less than 5 % ) of the radioactivity in urine ( representing less than 3 % of the total dose ) was made up of parent compound ; therefore , renal excretion plays a minor role in elimination of the parent compound .
Nevirapine is an inducer of hepatic cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) metabolic enzymes 3 A and 2B6 .
Nevirapine induces CYP3A and CYP2B6 by approximately 20 - 25 % , as indicated by erythromycin breath test results and urine metabolites .
Autoinduction of CYP3A and CYP2B6 mediated metabolism leads to an approximately 1 . 5 - to 2 - fold increase in the apparent oral clearance of nevirapine as treatment continues from a single dose to two - to - four weeks of dosing with 200 - 400 mg per day .
Autoinduction also results in a corresponding decrease in the terminal phase half - life of nevirapine in plasma , from approximately 45 hours ( single dose ) to approximately 25 - 30 hours following multiple dosing with 200 - 400 mg per day .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment HIV - 1 seronegative adults with mild ( CrCl 50 - 79 mL per min ; n = 7 ) , moderate ( CrCl 30 - 49 mL per min ; n = 6 ) , or severe ( CrCl less than 30 mL per min ; n = 4 ) renal impairment received a single 200 mg dose of nevirapine in a pharmacokinetic trial .
These subjects did not require dialysis .
The trial included six additional subjects with renal failure requiring dialysis .
In subjects with renal impairment ( mild , moderate or severe ) , there were no significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of nevirapine .
However , subjects requiring dialysis exhibited a 44 % reduction in nevirapine AUC over a one - week exposure period .
There was also evidence of accumulation of nevirapine hydroxy - metabolites in plasma in subjects requiring dialysis .
An additional 200 mg dose following each dialysis treatment is indicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment In a steady - state trial comparing 46 subjects with mild ( n = 17 ; expansion of some portal areas ; Ishak Score 1 - 2 ) , moderate ( n = 20 ; expansion of most portal areas with occasional portal - to - portal and portal - to - central bridging ; Ishak Score 3 - 4 ) , or severe ( n = 9 ; marked bridging with occasional cirrhosis without decompensation indicating Child - Pugh A ; Ishak Score 5 - 6 ) fibrosis as a measure of hepatic impairment , the multiple dose pharmacokinetic disposition of nevirapine and its five oxidative metabolites were not altered .
However , approximately 15 % of these subjects with hepatic fibrosis had nevirapine trough concentrations above 9 , 000 mcg per mL ( 2 - fold the usual mean trough ) .
Therefore , patients with hepatic impairment should be monitored carefully for evidence of drug - induced toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The subjects studied were receiving antiretroviral therapy containing nevirapine 200 mg twice daily for at least 6 weeks prior to pharmacokinetic sampling , with a median duration of therapy of 3 . 4 years .
In a pharmacokinetic trial where HIV - 1 negative cirrhotic subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh A ; n = 6 ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh B ; n = 4 ) hepatic impairment received a single 200 mg dose of nevirapine , a significant increase in the AUC of nevirapine was observed in one subject with Child - Pugh B and ascites suggesting that patients with worsening hepatic function and ascites may be at risk of accumulating nevirapine in the systemic circulation .
Because nevirapine induces its own metabolism with multiple dosing , this single - dose trial may not reflect the impact of hepatic impairment on multiple - dose pharmacokinetics .
Do not administer nevirapine to patients with moderate or severe ( Child - Pugh Class B or C , respectively ) hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender In the multinational 2 NN trial , a population pharmacokinetic substudy of 1077 subjects was performed that included 391 females .
Female subjects showed a 13 . 8 % lower clearance of nevirapine than did men .
Since neither body weight nor Body Mass Index ( BMI ) had an influence on the clearance of nevirapine , the effect of gender cannot solely be explained by body size .
Race An evaluation of nevirapine plasma concentrations ( pooled data from several clinical trials ) from HIV - 1 - infected subjects ( 27 Black , 24 Hispanic , 189 Caucasian ) revealed no marked difference in nevirapine steady - state trough concentrations ( median Cminss = 4 . 7 mcg / mL Black , 3 . 8 mcg / mL Hispanic , 4 . 3 mcg / mL Caucasian ) with long - term nevirapine treatment at 400 mg per day .
However , the pharmacokinetics of nevirapine have not been evaluated specifically for the effects of ethnicity .
Black subjects ( n = 80 / group ) in Trial 1100 . 1486 showed approximately 30 % to 35 % higher trough concentrations than Caucasian subjects ( 250 - 325 subjects / group ) in both immediate - release nevirapine and nevirapine extended release tablets treatment groups over 96 weeks of treatment at 400 mg per day .
Geriatric Patients Nevirapine pharmacokinetics in HIV - 1 - infected adults do not appear to change with age ( range 18 to 68 years ) ; however , nevirapine has not been extensively evaluated in subjects beyond the age of 55 years [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients Pharmacokinetic data for nevirapine have been derived from two sources : a 48 - week pediatric trial in South Africa ( BI Trial 1100 . 1368 ) involving 123 HIV - 1 positive , antiretroviral - naïve subjects aged 3 months to 16 years ; and a consolidated analysis of five Pediatric AIDS Clinical Trials Group ( PACTG ) protocols comprising 495 subjects aged 14 days to 19 years BI Trial 1100 . 1368 studied the safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of a weight - based and a body surface area ( BSA ) - based dosing regimen of nevirapine .
In the weight - based regimen , pediatric subjects up to 8 years of age received a dose of 4 mg / kg once daily for two weeks followed by 7 mg per kg twice daily thereafter .
Subjects 8 years and older were dosed 4 mg / kg once daily for two weeks followed by 4 mg / kg twice daily thereafter .
In the BSA regimen , all pediatric subjects received 150 mg / m2 once daily for two weeks followed by 150 mg / m2 twice daily thereafter [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Dosing of nevirapine at 150 mg / m2 BID ( after a two - week lead - in of 150 mg / m2 QD ) produced geometric mean or mean trough nevirapine concentrations between 4 - 6 mcg per mL ( as targeted from adult data ) .
In addition , the observed trough nevirapine concentrations were comparable between the two dosing regimens studied ( BSA - and weight - based methods ) .
The consolidated analysis of Pediatric AIDS Clinical Trials Group ( PACTG ) protocols 245 , 356 , 366 , 377 , and 403 allowed for the evaluation of pediatric subjects less than 3 months of age ( n = 17 ) .
The plasma nevirapine concentrations observed were within the range observed in adults and the remainder of the pediatric population , but were more variable between subjects , particularly in the second month of age .
For dose recommendations for pediatric patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Drug Interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] Nevirapine induces hepatic cytochrome P450 metabolic isoenzymes 3 A and 2B6 .
Co - administration of nevirapine and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6 may result in decreased plasma concentrations of these drugs and attenuate their therapeutic effects .
While primarily an inducer of cytochrome P450 3 A and 2B6 enzymes , nevirapine may also inhibit this system .
Among human hepatic cytochrome P450s , nevirapine was capable in vitro of inhibiting the 10 - hydroxylation of ( R ) - warfarin ( CYP3A ) .
The estimated Ki for the inhibition of CYP3A was 270 micromolar , a concentration that is unlikely to be achieved in patients as the therapeutic range is less than 25 micromolar .
Therefore , nevirapine may have minimal inhibitory effect on other substrates of CYP3A .
Nevirapine does not appear to affect the plasma concentrations of drugs that are substrates of other CYP450 enzyme systems , such as 1A2 , 2D6 , 2A6 , 2E1 , 2C9 , or 2C19 .
Table 5 ( see below ) contains the results of drug interaction trials performed with nevirapine and other drugs likely to be co - administered .
The effects of nevirapine on the AUC , Cmax , and Cmin of co - administered drugs are summarized .
Table 5 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Co - administered Drug in the Presence of Nevirapine ( All interaction trials were conducted in HIV - 1 positive subjects ) Co - administered Drug Dose of Co - administered Drug Dose Regimen of Nevirapine n % Change of Co - administered Drug Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( 90 % CI ) Antiretrovirals AUC Cmax Cmin Atazanavir / Ritonavira , d 300 / 100 mg QD day 4 – 13 , then 400 / 100 mg QD , day 14 – 23 200 mg BID day 1 - 23 .
Subjects were treated with nevirapine prior to trial entry .
23 Atazanavir 300 / 100 mg ↓ 42 ( ↓ 52 to ↓ 29 ) Atazanavir 300 / 100 mg ↓ 28 ( ↓ 40 to ↓ 14 ) Atazanavir 300 / 100 mg ↓ 72 ( ↓ 80 to ↓ 60 ) Atazanavir 400 / 100 mg ↓ 19 ( ↓ 35 to ↑ 2 ) Atazanavir 400 / 100 mg ↑ 2 ( ↓ 15 to ↑ 24 ) Atazanavir 400 / 100 mg ↓ 59 ( ↓ 73 to ↓ 40 ) Darunavir / Ritonavir e 400 / 100 mg BID 200 mg BID 8 ↑ 24 ( ↓ 3 to ↑ 57 ) ↑ 40 ( ↑ 14 to ↑ 73 ) ↑ 2 ( ↓ 21 to ↑ 32 ) Didanosine 100 - 150 mg BID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 18 ⇔ ⇔ § Efavirenza 600 mg QD 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 400 mg QD x 14 days 17 ↓ 28 ( ↓ 34 to ↓ 14 ) ↓ 12 ( ↓ 23 to ↑ 1 ) ↓ 32 ( ↓ 35 to ↓ 19 ) Fosamprenavir 1400 mg BID 200 mg BID .
Subjects were treated with nevirapine prior to trial entry .
17 ↓ 33 ( ↓ 45 to ↓ 20 ) ↓ 25 ( ↓ 37 to ↓ 10 ) ↓ 35 ( ↓ 50 to ↓ 15 ) Fosamprenavir / Ritonavir 700 / 100 mg BID 200 mg BID .
Subjects were treated with nevirapine prior to trial entry .
17 ↓ 11 ( ↓ 23 to ↑ 3 ) ⇔ ↓ 19 ( ↓ 32 to ↓ 4 ) Indinavira 800 mg q8H 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 19 ↓ 31 ( ↓ 39 to ↓ 22 ) ↓ 15 ( ↓ 24 to ↓ 4 ) ↓ 44 ( ↓ 53 to ↓ 33 ) Lopinavira , b 300 / 75 mg / m2 ( lopinavir / ritonavir ) b 7 mg / kg or 4 mg / kg QD x 2 weeks ; BID x 1 week 12 , 15 c ↓ 22 ( ↓ 44 to ↑ 9 ) ↓ 14 ( ↓ 36 to ↑ 16 ) ↓ 55 ( ↓ 75 to ↓ 19 ) Lopinavira 400 / 100 mg BID ( lopinavir / ritonavir ) 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID > 1 year 22 , 19 c ↓ 27 ( ↓ 47 to ↓ 2 ) ↓ 19 ( ↓ 38 to ↑ 5 ) ↓ 51 ( ↓ 72 to ↓ 26 ) Maraviroc f 300 mg SD 200 mg BID 8 ↑ 1 ( ↓ 35 to ↑ 55 ) ↑ 54 ( ↓ 6 to ↑ 151 ) ⇔ Nelfinavira 750 mg TID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 23 ⇔ ⇔ ↓ 32 ( ↓ 50 to ↑ 5 ) Nelfinavir - M8 metabolite ↓ 62 ( ↓ 70 to ↓ 53 ) ↓ 59 ( ↓ 68 to ↓ 48 ) ↓ 66 ( ↓ 74 to ↓ 55 ) Ritonavir 600 mg BID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 18 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Stavudine 30 - 40 mg BID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 22 ⇔ ⇔ § Zalcitabine 0 . 125 - 0 . 25 mg TID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 6 ⇔ ⇔ § Zidovudine 100 - 200 mg TID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 11 ↓ 28 ( ↓ 40 to ↓ 4 ) ↓ 30 ( ↓ 51 to ↑ 14 ) § Other Medications AUC Cmax Cmin Clarithromycina Metabolite 14 - OH - clarithromycin 500 mg BID 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 15 ↓ 31 ( ↓ 38 to ↓ 24 ) ↓ 23 ( ↓ 31 to ↓ 14 ) ↓ 56 ( ↓ 70 to ↓ 36 ) ↑ 42 ( ↑ 16 to ↑ 73 ) ↑ 47 ( ↑ 21 to ↑ 80 ) ⇔ Ethinyl Estradiola and Norethindronea 0 . 035 mg ( as Ortho - Novum ® 1 / 35 ) 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 10 ↓ 20 ( ↓ 33 to ↓ 3 ) ⇔ § 1 mg ( as Ortho - Novum ® 1 / 35 ) ↓ 19 ( ↓ 30 to ↓ 7 ) ↓ 16 ( ↓ 27 to ↓ 3 ) § Depomedroxy - Progesterone Acetate 150 mg every 3 months 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 32 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Fluconazole 200 mg QD 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 19 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Ketoconazolea 400 mg QD 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 21 ↓ 72 ( ↓ 80 to ↓ 60 ) ↓ 44 ( ↓ 58 to ↓ 27 ) § Methadonea Individual Subject Dosing 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID ≥ 7 days 9 In a controlled pharmacokinetic trial with 9 subjects receiving chronic methadone to whom steady - state nevirapine therapy was added , the clearance of methadone was increased by 3 - fold , resulting in symptoms of withdrawal , requiring dose adjustments in 10 mg segments , in 7 of the 9 subjects .
Methadone did not have any effect on nevirapine clearance .
Rifabutina Metabolite 25 - O - desacetyl - rifabutin 150 or 300 mg QD 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 19 ↑ 17 ( ↓ 2 to ↑ 40 ) ↑ 28 ( ↑ 9 to ↑ 51 ) ⇔ ↑ 24 ( ↓ 16 to ↑ 84 ) ↑ 29 ( ↓ 2 to ↑ 68 ) ↑ 22 ( ↓ 14 to ↑ 74 ) Rifampina 600 mg QD 200 mg QD x 14 days ; 200 mg BID x 14 days 14 ↑ 11 ( ↓ 4 to ↑ 28 ) ⇔ § § = Cmin below detectable level of the assay ↑ = Increase , ↓ = Decrease , ⇔ = No Effect a For information regarding clinical recommendations , see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) .
b Pediatric subjects ranging in age from 6 months to 12 years .
c Parallel group design ; n for nevirapine + lopinavir / ritonavir , n for lopinavir / ritonavir alone .
d Parallel group design ; n = 23 for atazanavir / ritonavir + nevirapine , n = 22 for atazanavir / ritonavir without nevirapine .
Changes in atazanavir PK are relative to atazanavir / ritonavir 300 / 100 mg alone .
e Based on between - trial comparison .
f Based on historical controls .
Because of the design of the drug interaction trials ( addition of 28 days of nevirapine therapy to existing HIV - 1 therapy ) , the effect of the concomitant drug on plasma nevirapine steady - state concentrations was estimated by comparison to historical controls .
Administration of rifampin had a clinically significant effect on nevirapine pharmacokinetics , decreasing AUC and Cmax by greater than 50 % .
Administration of fluconazole resulted in an approximate 100 % increase in nevirapine exposure , based on a comparison to historic data [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The effect of other drugs listed in Table 5 on nevirapine pharmacokinetics was not significant .
No significant interaction was observed when tipranavir was co - administered with low - dose ritonavir and nevirapine .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Nevirapine is a non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor ( NNRTI ) of HIV - 1 .
Nevirapine binds directly to reverse transcriptase ( RT ) and blocks the RNA - dependent and DNA - dependent DNA polymerase activities by causing a disruption of the enzyme ' s catalytic site .
The activity of nevirapine does not compete with template or nucleoside triphosphates .
HIV - 2 RT and eukaryotic DNA polymerases ( such as human DNA polymerases α , ß , γ , or δ ) are not inhibited by nevirapine .
Antiviral Activity The antiviral activity of nevirapine has been measured in a variety of cell lines including peripheral blood mononuclear cells , monocyte - derived macrophages , and lymphoblastoid cell lines .
In an assay using human embryonic kidney 293 cells , the median EC50 value ( 50 % inhibitory concentration ) of nevirapine was 90 nM against a panel of 2923 wild - type isolates of HIV - 1 that were primarily ( 93 % ) clade B clinical isolates from the United States .
The 99 th percentile EC50 value was 470 nM in this trial .
The median EC50 value was 63 nM ( range 14 - 302 nM , n = 29 ) against clinical isolates of HIV - 1 clades A , B , C , D , F , G , and H , and circulating recombinant forms CRF01 _ AE , CRF02 _ AG and CRF12 _ BF .
Nevirapine had no antiviral activity in cell culture against group O HIV - 1 isolates ( n = 3 ) or HIV - 2 isolates ( n = 3 ) replicating in cord blood mononuclear cells .
Nevirapine in combination with efavirenz exhibited strong antagonistic anti - HIV - 1 activity in cell culture and was additive to antagonistic with the protease inhibitor ritonavir or the fusion inhibitor enfuvirtide .
The anti - HIV - 1 activity of nevirapine was not antagonistic in combination with the NRTIs abacavir , didanosine , emtricitabine , lamivudine , stavudine , tenofovir and zidovudine , and the protease inhibitors amprenavir , atazanavir , indinavir , lopinavir , nelfinavir , saquinavir and tipranavir .
The anti - HIV - 1 activity of nevirapine was antagonized by the anti - HBV drug adefovir and by the anti - HCV drug ribavirin in cell culture .
Resistance HIV - 1 isolates with reduced susceptibility ( 100 - to 250 - fold ) to nevirapine emerge in cell culture .
Genotypic analysis showed mutations in the HIV - 1 RT gene encoding Y181C and / or V106A substitutions depending upon the virus strain and cell line employed .
Time to emergence of nevirapine resistance in cell culture was not altered when selection included nevirapine in combination with several other NNRTIs .
Phenotypic and genotypic changes in HIV - 1 isolates from treatment - naïve subjects receiving either nevirapine ( n = 24 ) or nevirapine and zidovudine ( n = 14 ) were monitored in Phase 1 and 2 trials ranging from 1 to 12 weeks or longer .
After 1 week of nevirapine monotherapy , isolates from 3 / 3 subjects had decreased susceptibility to nevirapine in cell culture .
One or more of the RT mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions K103N , V106A , V108I , Y181C , Y188C , and G190A were detected in HIV - 1 isolates from some subjects as early as 2 weeks after therapy initiation .
By week eight of nevirapine monotherapy , 100 % of the subjects tested ( n = 24 ) had HIV - 1 isolates with a greater than 100 - fold decrease in susceptibility to nevirapine in cell culture compared to baseline and had one or more of the nevirapine RT resistance - associated substitutions .
Nineteen of these subjects ( 80 % ) had isolates with Y181C substitutions regardless of dose .
Genotypic analysis of isolates from antiretroviral - naïve subjects experiencing virologic failure ( n = 71 ) receiving nevirapine once daily ( n = 25 ) or twice daily ( n = 46 ) in combination with lamivudine and stavudine ( trial 2 NN ) for 48 weeks showed that isolates from 8 / 25 and 23 / 46 subjects , respectively , contained one or more of the following NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions : Y181C , K101E , G190A / S , K103N , V106A / M , V108I , Y188C / L , A98G , F227L , and M230L .
For trial 1100 . 1486 , genotypic analysis was performed for baseline and on - therapy isolates from 23 and 34 subjects who experienced virologic failure in the nevirapine extended - release tablets and immediate - release nevirapine treatment group , respectively .
Nevirapine resistance - associated substitutions developed in the on - therapy isolates of 78 % ( 18 / 23 ) of the subjects who had virologic failures in the nevirapine extended - release tablets treatment group and 88 % ( 30 / 34 ) of the subjects in the immediate - release nevirapine treatment group , respectively .
The Y181C nevirapine resistance - associated substitution was found alone or in combination with other nevirapine resistance - associated substitutions ( K101E , K103N , V106A , V108I , V179D / E / I , Y188 C / F / H / L / N , G190A , P225H , F227L , M230L ) in isolates from 14 subjects failing nevirapine extended - release tablets treatment and 25 subjects failing immediate - release nevirapine treatment .
On - therapy isolates from 1 subject in nevirapine extended - release tablets treatment group developed a novel amino acid substitution Y181I and isolates from another subject in the immediate - release nevirapine treatment group developed a novel amino acid substitution Y188N .
Phenotypic analysis showed that Y188N and Y181I substitutions conferred 103 - and 22 - fold reductions in susceptibility to nevirapine , respectively .
Cross - resistance Rapid emergence of HIV - 1 strains which are cross - resistant to NNRTIs has been observed in cell culture .
Nevirapine - resistant HIV - 1 isolates were cross - resistant to the NNRTIs efavirenz and etravirine .
The Y188N conferred a 7 - fold reduction in susceptibility to efavirenz but showed no decrease in susceptibility to etravirine . Similarly , the Y181I substitution reduced susceptibility to etravirine 8 - fold , but did not reduce susceptibility to efavirenz .
However , nevirapine - resistant isolates were susceptible to the NRTI ZDV .
Similarly , ZDV - resistant isolates were susceptible to nevirapine in cell culture .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats were carried out with nevirapine .
Mice were dosed with 0 , 50 , 375 or 750 mg / kg / day for two years .
Hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were increased at all doses in males and at the two high doses in females .
In studies in which rats were administered nevirapine at doses of 0 , 3 . 5 , 17 . 5 or 35 mg / kg / day for two years , an increase in hepatocellular adenomas was seen in males at all doses and in females at the high dose .
The systemic exposure ( based on AUCs ) at all doses in the two animal studies was lower than that measured in humans at the 200 mg twice daily dose .
The mechanism of the carcinogenic potential is unknown .
Mutagenesis However , in genetic toxicology assays , nevirapine showed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic activity in a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies .
These included microbial assays for gene mutation ( Ames : Salmonella strains and E . coli ) , mammalian cell gene mutation assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) , cytogenetic assays using a Chinese hamster ovary cell line and a mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay following oral administration .
Given the lack of genotoxic activity of nevirapine , the relevance to humans of hepatocellular neoplasms in nevirapine - treated mice and rats is not known .
Impairment of Fertility In reproductive toxicology studies , evidence of impaired fertility was seen in female rats at doses providing systemic exposure , based on AUC , approximately equivalent to that provided with the recommended clinical dose of nevirapine .
13 . 2 Animal Pharmacology & OR Toxicology Animal studies have shown that nevirapine is widely distributed to nearly all tissues and readily crosses the blood - brain barrier .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adult Patients Trial BI 1090 was a placebo - controlled , double - blind , randomized trial in 2249 HIV - 1 infected subjects with less than 200 CD4 + cells / mm3 at screening .
Initiated in 1995 , BI 1090 compared treatment with nevirapine + lamivudine + background therapy versus lamivudine + background therapy in NNRTI - naïve subjects .
Treatment doses were nevirapine , 200 mg daily for two weeks followed by 200 mg twice daily or placebo , and lamivudine , 150 mg twice daily .
Other antiretroviral agents were given at approved doses .
Initial background therapy ( in addition to lamivudine ) was one NRTI in 1309 subjects ( 58 % ) , two or more NRTIs in 771 ( 34 % ) , and PIs and NRTIs in 169 ( 8 % ) .
The subjects ( median age 36 . 5 years , 70 % Caucasian , 79 % male ) had advanced HIV - 1 infection , with a median baseline CD4 + cell count of 96 cells / mm3 and a baseline HIV - 1 RNA of 4 . 58 log10 copies per mL ( 38 , 291 copies per mL ) .
Prior to entering the trial , 45 % had previously experienced an AIDS - defining clinical event .
Eighty - nine percent had antiretroviral treatment prior to entering the trial .
BI 1090 was originally designed as a clinical endpoint trial .
Prior to unblinding the trial , the primary endpoint was changed to proportion of subjects with HIV - 1 RNA less than 50 copies per mL and not previously failed at 48 weeks .
Treatment response and outcomes are shown in Table 6 .
Table 6 BI 1090 Outcomes Through 48 Weeks Outcome Nevirapine ( N = 1121 ) % Placebo ( N = 1128 ) % Responders at 48 weeks : HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL 18 2 Treatment Failure 82 98 Never suppressed viral load 45 66 Virologic failure after response 7 4 CDC category C event or death 10 11 Added antiretroviral therapy1 while < 50 copies / mL 5 1 Discontinued trial therapy due to AE 7 6 Discontinued trial < 48 weeks2 9 10 1 including change to open - label nevirapine 2 includes withdrawal of consent , lost to follow - up , non - compliance with protocol , other administrative reasons The change from baseline in CD4 + cell count through one year of therapy was significantly greater for the nevirapine group compared to the placebo group for the overall trial population ( 64 cells / mm3 versus 22 cells / mm3 , respectively ) , as well as for subjects who entered the trial as treatment - naïve or having received only ZDV ( 85 cells / mm3 versus 25 cells / mm3 , respectively ) .
At two years into the trial , 16 % of subjects on nevirapine had experienced class C CDC events as compared to 21 % of subjects on the control arm .
Trial BI 1046 ( INCAS ) was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , three - arm trial with 151 HIV - 1 infected subjects with CD4 + cell counts of 200 - 600 cells / mm3 at baseline .
BI 1046 compared treatment with nevirapine + zidovudine + didanosine to nevirapine + zidovudine and zidovudine + didanosine .
Treatment doses were nevirapine at 200 mg daily for two weeks followed by 200 mg twice daily or placebo , zidovudine at 200 mg three times daily , and didanosine at 125 or 200 mg twice daily ( depending on body weight ) .
The subjects had mean baseline HIV - 1 RNA of 4 . 41 log10 copies / mL ( 25 , 704 copies per mL ) and mean baseline CD4 + cell count of 376 cells / mm3 .
The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects with HIV - 1 RNA less than 400 copies per mL and not previously failed at 48 weeks .
The virologic responder rates at 48 weeks were 45 % for subjects treated with nevirapine + zidovudine + didanosine , 19 % for subjects treated with zidovudine + didanosine , and 0 % for subjects treated with nevirapine + zidovudine .
CD4 + cell counts in the nevirapine + ZDV + ddI group increased above baseline by a mean of 139 cells / mm3 at one year , significantly greater than the increase of 87 cells / mm3 in the ZDV + ddI subjects .
The nevirapine + ZDV group mean decreased by 6 cells / mm3 below baseline .
14 . 2 Pediatric Patients The pediatric safety and efficacy of nevirapine was examined in BI Trial 1100 . 1368 , an open - label , randomized clinical trial performed in South Africa in which 123 HIV - 1 infected treatment - naïve subjects between 3 months and 16 years of age received nevirapine oral suspension for 48 weeks .
Subjects were divided into 4 age groups ( 3 months to less than 2 years , 2 to less than 7 years , 7 to less than 12 years , and 12 to less than or equal to 16 years ) and randomized to receive one of two nevirapine doses , determined by 2 different dosing methods [ body surface area ( 150 mg / m2 ) and weight - based dosing ( 4 or 7 mg per kg ) ] in combination with zidovudine and lamivudine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The total daily dose of nevirapine did not exceed 400 mg in either regimen .
There were 66 subjects in the body surface area ( BSA ) dosing group and 57 subjects in the weight - based ( BW ) dosing group .
Baseline demographics included : 49 % male ; 81 % Black and 19 % Caucasian ; 4 % had previous exposure to ARVs .
Subjects had a median baseline HIV - 1 RNA of 5 . 45 log10 copies per mL and a median baseline CD4 + cell count of 527 cells / mm3 ( range 37 - 2279 ) .
One hundred and five ( 85 % ) completed the 48 - week period while 18 ( 15 % ) discontinued prematurely .
Of the subjects who discontinued prematurely , 9 ( 7 % ) discontinued due to adverse reactions and 3 ( 2 % ) discontinued due to virologic failure .
Overall the proportion of subjects who achieved and maintained an HIV - 1 RNA less than 400 copies per mL at 48 weeks was 47 % ( 58 / 123 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Nevirapine tablets USP , 200 mg , are white to off white , oval , biconvex , uncoated tablets having “ M ” and “ L ” debossed on one side , with a deep score separating the “ M ” & “ L ” and “ 1 ” and “ 1 ” debossed on the other side with a breakline separating “ 1 ” and “ 1 ” .
Nevirapine tablets are supplied in Bottles of 60 tablets ( NDC 33342 - 004 - 09 ) .
Nevirapine tablets are supplied in unit dose packages of 60 ( 6x10 ) Unit of use tablets ( NDC 33342 - 004 - 24 ) .
Nevirapine tablets are supplied in unit dose packages of 120 ( 12x10 ) Unit of use tablets ( NDC 33342 - 004 - 25 ) .
Dispense in tight container as defined in the USP / NF .
Storage Store between 20º to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Store in a safe place out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Hepatotoxicity and Skin Reactions Inform patients of the possibility of severe liver disease or skin reactions associated with nevirapine that may result in death .
Instruct patients developing signs or symptoms of liver disease or severe skin reactions to discontinue nevirapine and seek medical attention immediately , including performance of laboratory monitoring .
Symptoms of liver disease include fatigue , malaise , anorexia , nausea , jaundice , acholic stools , liver tenderness or hepatomegaly .
Symptoms of severe skin or hypersensitivity reactions include rash accompanied by fever , general malaise , fatigue , muscle or joint aches , blisters , oral lesions , conjunctivitis , facial edema , and / or hepatitis .
Intensive clinical and laboratory monitoring , including liver enzymes , is essential during the first 18 weeks of therapy with nevirapine to detect potentially life - threatening hepatotoxicity and skin reactions .
However , liver disease can occur after this period ; therefore , monitoring should continue at frequent intervals throughout nevirapine treatment .
Extra vigilance is warranted during the first 6 weeks of therapy , which is the period of greatest risk of hepatic events .
Advise patients with signs and symptoms of hepatitis to discontinue nevirapine and seek medical evaluation immediately .
If nevirapine is discontinued due to hepatotoxicity , do not restart it .
Patients , particularly women , with increased CD4 + cell count at initiation of nevirapine therapy ( greater than 250 cells / mm3 in women and greater than 400 cells / mm3 in men ) are at substantially higher risk for development of symptomatic hepatic events , often associated with rash .
Advise patients that co - infection with hepatitis B or C and / or increased transaminases at the start of therapy with nevirapine are associated with a greater risk of later symptomatic events ( 6 weeks or more after starting nevirapine ) and asymptomatic increases in AST or ALT [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The majority of rashes associated with nevirapine occur within the first 6 weeks of initiation of therapy .
Instruct patients that if any rash occurs during the two - week lead - in period , do not escalate the nevirapine dose until the rash resolves .
The total duration of the once - daily lead - in dosing period should not exceed 28 days , at which point an alternative regimen may need to be started .
Any patient experiencing a rash should have their liver enzymes ( AST , ALT ) evaluated immediately .
Patients with severe rash or hypersensitivity reactions should discontinue nevirapine immediately and consult a physician .
nevirapine should not be restarted following severe skin rash or hypersensitivity reaction .
Women tend to be at higher risk for development of nevirapine - associated rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Administration and Missed Dosage Inform patients to take nevirapine every day as prescribed .
Advise patients not to alter the dose without consulting their doctor .
If a dose is missed , patients should take the next dose as soon as possible .
However , if a dose is skipped , the patient should not double the next dose .
To avoid overdose , inform patients that they should never take immediate - release nevirapine and extended - release nevirapine concomitantly .
Drug Interactions Nevirapine may interact with some drugs ; therefore , advise patients to report to their doctor the use of any other prescription , non - prescription medication or herbal products , particularly St . John ' s wort [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider immediately of any signs or symptoms of infection , as inflammation from previous infection may occur soon after combination antiretroviral therapy , including when nevirapine is started [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Fat Redistribution Inform patients that redistribution or accumulation of body fat may occur in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy and that the cause and long - term health effects of these conditions are not known at this time [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to nevirapine during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Instruct women with HIV - 1 infection not to breastfeed because HIV - 1 can be passed to the baby in the breast milk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential for impaired fertility from nevirapine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd Daman ( U . T . ) , INDIA Medication Guide available at : https : / / www . macleodspharma . com / usa Revised : 07 / 2022 SPL MEDGUIDE SECTION Nevirapine Tablets ( ne vir ' a peen ) What is the most important information I should know about nevirapine tablets ?
Nevirapine tablets can cause severe liver and skin problems that may lead to death .
These problems can happen at any time during treatment , but your risk is higher during the first 18 weeks of treatment .
Nevirapine tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • Severe liver problems .
Some people taking nevirapine tablets may develop severe liver problems that can lead to liver failure and the need for a liver transplant , or death .
If you have liver problems , you may get a rash .
o Women have a higher risk of developing liver problems during treatment with nevirapine tablets than men .
o People who have abnormal liver test results before starting nevirapine tablets and people with hepatitis B or C also have a greater risk of getting liver problems .
People who have higher CD4 + cell counts when they beginnevirapine tablets have a higher risk of liver problems , especially : o Women with CD4 + counts higher than 250 cells / mm3 .
This group has the highest risk .
o Men with CD4 + counts higher than 400 cells / mm3 .
Stop takingnevirapine tablets and call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms of liver problems with or without a skin rash : • dark ( tea colored ) urine • yellowing of your skin or whites of your eyes • light - colored bowel movements ( stools ) • fever • feeling sick to your stomach ( nausea ) • feel unwell or like you have the flu • pain or tenderness on your right side below your ribs • tiredness • loss of appetite • Severe skin reactions and rash .
Some skin reactions and rashes may be severe , life - threatening , and in some people , may lead to death .
Most severe skin reactions and rashes happen in the first 6 weeks of treatment with nevirapine tablets .
o Women have a higher risk of developing a rash during treatment with nevirapine tablets than men .
Stop taking nevirapine tablets and call your doctor right away if you get a rash with any of the following symptoms : • blisters • muscle or joint aches • red or inflamed eyes , like “ pink eye ” ( conjunctivitis ) • mouth sores • swelling of your face • fever • feel unwell or like you have the flu • tiredness • Your doctor should do blood tests often to check your liver function and check for severe skin reactions during the first 18 weeks of treatment with nevirapine tablets .
You should continue to see your doctor and have your liver checked regularly during your treatment with nevirapine tablets .
It is important for you to keep all of your doctor appointments .
● If your doctor tells you to stop treatment with nevirapine tablets because you have had any of the severe liver or skin symptoms listed above , you should never take nevirapine tablets again .
See " What are the possible side effects of nevirapine tablets ? "
for more information about side effects .
What are nevirapine tablets ?
Nevirapine tablets and nevirapine oral solution are prescription HIV - 1 medicines used with other HIV - 1 medicines to treat HIV - 1 ( Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 ) in adults and in children 15 days of age or older .
HIV - 1 is the virus that causes AIDS ( Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ) .
Nevirapine extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine used with other HIV - 1 medicines to treat HIV - 1 ( Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 ) in adults and in children 6 years of age or older based on the child ' s weight and height .
• If you are a woman with CD4 + counts higher than 250 cells / mm3 or a man with CD4 + counts higher than 400 cells / mm3 , you and your doctor will decide if starting nevirapine tablets is right for you .
• Nevirapine extended - release tablets are not recommended for use in children less than 6 years of age .
Do not take nevirapine tablets : • if you have liver problems .
• as part of occupational and non - occupational post - exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) regimens .
Nevirapine tablets are only for people diagnosed with HIV - 1 .
If you have not been diagnosed as HIV positive , then do not take nevirapine tablets .
Before taking nevirapine tablets , tell your doctor about all your or your child ’ s medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have or have had hepatitis ( inflammation of your liver ) or problems with your liver .
See “ What is the most important information I should know aboutnevirapine tablets ? ”
• receive dialysis • have trouble swallowing pills • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if nevirapine tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Pregnancy Registry : There is a pregnancy registry for women who take nevirapine tablets during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
Talk to your doctor about how you can take part in this registry .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
nevirapine can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You should not breastfeed if you have HIV - 1 because of the risk of passing HIV - 1 to your baby .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with nevirapine tablets .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take St . John ’ s wort .
• Some medicines interact with nevirapine tablets .
Keep a list of your medicines to show your doctor or pharmacist .
• You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with nevirapine tablets .
• Do not start taking a new medicine without telling your doctor .
Your doctor can tell you if it is safe to take nevirapine tablets with other medicines .
How should I take nevirapine tablets ?
• Take nevirapine tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you to .
• Nevirapine tablets are always taken in combination with other antiretroviral medicines .
• Nevirapine tablets come in three different forms .
Your doctor will prescribe the form of nevirapine tablets that is right for you .
o Nevirapine tablets o Nevirapine oral suspension o Nevirapine extended - release tablets • You should not take more than one form of nevirapine tablets at the same time .
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions .
• If your child is prescribed nevirapine tablets , your child ’ s doctor will tell you exactly how nevirapine tablets should be taken .
• Nevirapine tablets can be taken with or without food .
• Swallow nevirapine extended - release tablets whole .
Do not chew , crush , or divide nevirapine extended - release tablets .
• Do not miss a dose of nevirapine tablets .
If you miss a dose of nevirapine tablets , take the missed dose as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
You should take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
• If you stop taking nevirapine tablets for more than 7 days , ask your doctor how much to take before you start taking it again .
You may need to begin taking the nevirapine tablets starting dose again , which is taken 1 time each day for 14 days .
Starting nevirapine tablets : 1 .
Your doctor should start you with 1 dose each day to lower your chance of getting a serious rash .
It is important that you only take 1 dose of nevirapine tablets each day for the first 14 days .
• Call your doctor right away if you get a skin rash during the first 14 days of nevirapine tablets treatment .
• Do not increase your dose to 2 times a day if you have a rash .
• You should never take your starting dose for longer than 28 days .
If after 28 days you are still receiving this starting dose because you have a rash , you and your doctor should talk about prescribing another HIV - 1 medicine for you instead of nevirapine tablets .
2 .
Day 15 , you will take 1 nevirapine tablet 2 times a day .
Starting nevirapine extended - release tablets when this is the first time you are taking any form of nevirapine : 1 .
Your doctor should start you with 1 dose of nevirapine tablets each day to lower your risk of getting a serious rash .
It is important that you only take 1 dose of nevirapine tablets each day for the first 14 days .
• Call your doctor right away if you get a skin rash during the first 14 days of nevirapine treatment .
• You should never take your starting dose for longer than 28 days .
If after 28 days you are still receiving this starting dose because you have a rash , you and your doctor should talk about prescribing another HIV - 1 medicine for you instead of nevirapine tablets .
• Do not start nevirapine extended - release tablets if you have a rash .
2 .
Day 15 , take nevirapine extended - release tablets 1 time a day as prescribed by your doctor .
Switching from nevirapine tablets tonevirapine extended - release tablets : • Take nevirapine extended - release tablets 1 time a day as prescribed by your doctor .
• You may sometimes pass a soft mass in your stools ( bowel movement ) that looks like your nevirapine extended - release tablets .
This will not affect the way your medicine works .
What are the possible side effects of nevirapine tablets ?
Nevirapine tablets may cause serious side effects , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about nevirapine tablets ? "
• Changes in your immune system ( Immune Reconstitution Syndrome ) can happen when you start taking HIV - 1 medicines .
Your immune system may get stronger and begin to fight infections that have been hidden in your body for a long time .
Tell your doctor right away if you start having new symptoms after starting your HIV - 1 medicine .
• Changes in body fat can happen in people who take HIV - 1 medicines .
These changes may include increased amount of fat in the upper back and neck ( “ buffalo hump ” ) , breast , and around the middle of your body ( trunk ) .
Loss of fat from your legs , arms , and face may also happen .
The exact cause and long - term health effects of these conditions are not known .
The most common side effect of nevirapine tablets is rash .
Nevirapine tablets may cause decreased fertility in females .
Talk to your doctor if you have concerns about fertility .
These are not all the possible side effects of nevirapine tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store nevirapine tablets ?
• Store nevirapine tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep nevirapine tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of nevirapine tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use nevirapine tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give nevirapine tablets to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about nevirapine tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in nevirapine tablets ?
Active ingredient : nevirapine Inactive ingredients : Nevirapine tablets : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate For additional information you may also call Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or 1 - 855 - 926 - 3384 .
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufactured by : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd Daman ( U . T . ) , INDIA Medication Guide available at : https : / / www . macleodspharma . com / usa Revised : 07 / 2022 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nevirapine Tablets , USP 200 mg Pack Count : 60 ' s Bottle Pack NDC : 33342 - 004 - 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nevirapine Tablets , USP 200 mg Pack Count : 6 x 10 ' s Carton NDC : 33342 - 004 - 24 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nevirapine Tablets , USP 200 mg Pack Count : 12 x 10 ' s Carton Pack NDC : 33342 - 004 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
