DESCRIPTION Nilutamide tablets contain nilutamide , a nonsteroidal , orally active antiandrogen having the chemical name 5 , 5 - dimethyl - 3 - [ 4 - nitro - 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ] - 2 , 4 - imidazolidinedione with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nilutamide is a microcrystalline , white to practically white powder with a molecular weight of 317 . 25 .
Its molecular formula is C12H10F3N3O4 .
It is freely soluble in ethyl acetate , acetone , chloroform , ethyl alcohol , dichloromethane , and methanol .
It is slightly soluble in water [ < 0 . 1 % W / V at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ] .
It melts between 153 ° C and 156 ° C ( 307 . 4 ° F and 312 . 8 ° F ) .
Each Nilutamide tablet contains 150 mg of nilutamide .
Other ingredients in Nilutamide tablets are corn starch , lactose , povidone , docusate sodium , magnesium stearate , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Prostate cancer is known to be androgen sensitive and responds to androgen ablation .
In animal studies , nilutamide has demonstrated antiandrogenic activity without other hormonal ( estrogen , progesterone , mineralocorticoid , and glucocorticoid ) effects .
In vitro , nilutamide blocks the effects of testosterone at the androgen receptor level .
In vivo , nilutamide interacts with the androgen receptor and prevents the normal androgenic response .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Analysis of blood , urine , and feces samples following a single oral 150 mg dose of [ 14 C ] - nilutamide in patients with metastatic prostate cancer showed that the drug is rapidly and completely absorbed and that it yields high and persistent plasma concentrations .
Distribution : After absorption of the drug , there is a detectable distribution phase .
There is moderate binding of the drug to plasma proteins and low binding to erythrocytes .
The binding is nonsaturable except in the case of alpha - 1 - glycoprotein , which makes a minor contribution to the total concentration of proteins in the plasma .
The results of binding studies do not indicate any effects that would cause nonlinear pharmacokinetics .
Metabolism : The results of a human metabolism study using 14 C - radiolabelled tablets show that nilutamide is extensively metabolized and less than 2 % of the drug is excreted unchanged in urine after 5 days .
Five metabolites have been isolated from human urine .
Two metabolites display an asymmetric center , due to oxidation of a methyl group , resulting in the formation of D - and L - isomers .
One of the metabolites was shown , in vitro , to possess 25 to 50 % of the pharmacological activity of the parent drug , and the D - isomer of the active metabolite showed equal or greater potency compared to the L - isomer .
However , the pharmacokinetics and the pharmacodynamics of the metabolites have not been fully investigated .
Elimination : The majority ( 62 % ) of orally administered [ 14 C ] - nilutamide is eliminated in the urine during the first 120 hours after a single 150 - mg dose .
Fecal elimination is negligible , ranging from 1 . 4 % to 7 % of the dose after 4 to 5 days .
Excretion of radioactivity in urine likely continues beyond 5 days .
The mean elimination half - life of nilutamide determined in studies in which subjects received a single dose of 100 - 300 mg ranged from 38 . 0 to 59 . 1 hours with most values between 41 and 49 hours .
The elimination of at least one metabolite is generally longer than that of unchanged nilutamide ( 59 - 126 hours ) .
During multiple dosing of 150 mg nilutamide ( given as 3 X 50 mg ) twice a day , steady state was reached within 2 to 4 weeks for most patients , and mean steady state AUC0 - 12 was 110 % higher than the AUC0 - ∞ obtained from the first 150 mg dose .
These data and in vitro metabolism data suggest that , upon multiple dosing , metabolic enzyme inhibition may occur for this drug .
Clinical Studies Nilutamide through its antiandrogenic activity can complement surgical castration , which suppresses only testicular androgens .
The effects of the combined therapy were studied in patients with previously untreated metastatic prostate cancer .
In a double - blind , randomized , multicenter study that enrolled 457 patients ( 225 treated with orchiectomy and nilutamide , 232 treated with orchiectomy and placebo ) , the nilutamide group showed a statistically significant benefit in time to progression and time to death .
The results are summarized below .
NILUTAMIDE PLACEBO Median Survival ( months ) 27 . 3 23 . 6 Progression - Free Survival ( months ) 21 . 1 14 . 9 Complete or Partial Regression 41 % 24 % Improvement in Bone Pain 54 % 37 % INDICATIONS & USAGE Metastatic Prostate Cancer Nilutamide tablets are indicated for use in combination with surgical castration for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer ( Stage D2 ) .
For maximum benefit , Nilutamide treatment must begin on the same day as or on the day after surgical castration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nilutamide tablets are contraindicated : • in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( baseline hepatic enzymes should be evaluated prior to treatment ) • in patients with severe respiratory insufficiency • in patients with hypersensitivity to nilutamide or any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Interstitial Pneumonitis Interstitial pneumonitis has been reported in 2 % of patients in controlled clinical trials in patients exposed to nilutamide .
A small study in Japanese subjects showed that 8 of 47 patients ( 17 % ) developed interstitial pneumonitis .
Reports of interstitial changes including pulmonary fibrosis that led to hospitalization and death have been reported rarely post - marketing .
Symptoms included exertional dyspnea , cough , chest pain , and fever .
X - rays showed interstitial or alveolo - interstitial changes , and pulmonary function tests revealed a restrictive pattern with decreased DLco .
Most cases occurred within the first 3 months of treatment with Nilutamide , and most reversed with discontinuation of therapy .
A routine chest X - ray should be performed prior to initiating treatment with Nilutamide .
Baseline pulmonary function tests may be considered .
Patients should be instructed to report any new or worsening shortness of breath that they experience while on Nilutamide .
If symptoms occur , Nilutamide should be immediately discontinued until it can be determined if the symptoms are drug related .
Hepatitis Rare cases of death or hospitalization due to severe liver injury have been reported post - marketing in association with the use of Nilutamide .
Hepatotoxicity in these reports generally occurred within the first 3 to 4 months of treatment .
Hepatitis or marked increases in liver enzymes leading to drug discontinuation occurred in 1 % of Nilutamide patients in controlled clinical trials .
Serum transaminase levels should be measured prior to starting treatment with Nilutamide , at regular intervals for the first 4 months of treatment , and periodically thereafter .
Liver function tests should also be obtained at the first sign or symptom suggestive of liver dysfunction , e . g . nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , fatigue , anorexia , “ flu - like ” symptoms , dark urine , jaundice or right upper quadrant tenderness .
If at any time , a patient has jaundice or their ALT rises above 2 times the upper limit of normal , Nilutamide should be immediately discontinued with close followup of liver function tests until resolution .
Use in Women Nilutamide has no indication for women , and should not be used in this population , particularly for non - serious or non - life threatening conditions .
Other Foreign postmarketing surveillance has revealed isolated cases of aplastic anemia in which a causal relationship with Nilutamide could not be ascertained .
PRECAUTIONS General Antiandrogen Withdrawal Syndrome Patients whose disease progresses while being treated with an antiandrogen may experience clinical improvement with discontinuation of the antiandrogen .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that Nilutamide tablets should be started on the day of or on the day after , surgical castration .
They should also be informed that they should not interrupt their dosing of Nilutamide or stop taking this medication without consulting their physician .
Because of the possibility of interstitial pneumonitis , patients should also be told to report immediately any dyspnea or aggravation of pre - existing dyspnea .
Because of the possibility of hepatitis , patients should be told to consult with their physician should nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or jaundice occur .
Because of the possibility of an intolerance to alcohol ( facial flushes , malaise , hypotension ) following ingestion of Nilutamide , it is recommended that intake of alcoholic beverages be avoided by patients who experience this reaction .
This effect has been reported in about 5 % of patients treated with Nilutamide .
In clinical trials , 13 % to 57 % of patients receiving Nilutamide reported a delay in adaptation to dark , ranging from seconds to a few minutes , when passing from a lighted area to a dark area .
This effect sometimes does not abate as drug treatment is continued .
Patients who experience this effect should be cautioned about driving at night or through tunnels .
This effect can be alleviated by the wearing of tinted glasses .
Drug Interactions In vitro , nilutamide has been shown to inhibit the activity of liver cytochrome P - 450 isoenzymes and , therefore , may reduce the metabolism of compounds requiring these systems .
Consequently , drugs with a low therapeutic margin , such as vitamin K antagonists , phenytoin , and theophylline , could have a delayed elimination and increases in their serum half - life leading to a toxic level .
The dosage of these drugs or others with a similar metabolism may need to be modified if they are administered concomitantly with nilutamide .
For example , when vitamin K antagonists are administered concomitantly with nilutamide , prothrombin time should be carefully monitored and , if necessary , the dosage of vitamin K antagonists should be reduced .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Administration of nilutamide to rats for 18 months at doses of 0 , 5 , 15 or 45 mg / kg / day produced benign Leydig cell tumors in 35 % of the high - dose male rats ( AUC exposures in high - dose rats were approximately 1 - 2 times human AUC exposures with therapeutic doses ) .
The increased incidence of Leydig cell tumors is secondary to elevated luteinizing hormone ( LH ) concentrations resulting from loss of feedback inhibition at the pituitary .
Elevated LH and testosterone concentrations are not observed in castrated men receiving Nilutamide .
Nilutamide had no effect on the incidence , size or time of onset of any spontaneous tumor in rats .
Nilutamide displayed no mutagenic effects in a variety of in vitro and in vivo tests ( Ames test , mouse micronucleus test , and two chromosomal aberration tests ) .
In reproduction studies in rats , nilutamide had no effect on the reproductive function of males and females , and no lethal , teratogenic or growth - suppressive effects on fetuses were found .
The maximal dose at which nilutamide did not affect reproductive function in either sex or have an effect on fetuses was estimated to be 45 mg / kg orally ( AUC exposures in rats approximately 1 - 2 times human therapeutic AUC exposures ) .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nilutamide .
It is also not known whether nilutamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nilutamide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been determined .
Animal Pharmacology and Toxicology Administration of Nilutamide to beagle dogs resulted in drug - related deaths at dose levels that produce AUC exposures in dogs much lower than the AUC exposures of men receiving the therapeutic doses of 150 and 300 mg / day .
Nilutamide - induced toxicity in dogs was cumulative with progressively lower doses producing death when given for longer durations .
Nilutamide given to dogs at 60 mg / kg / day ( 1 - 2 times human AUC exposure ) for 1 month produced 100 % mortality .
Administration of 20 and 30 mg / kg / day nilutamide ( 1 / 2 - 1 times human AUC exposure ) for 6 months resulted in 20 % and 70 % mortality in treated dogs .
Administration to dogs of 3 , 6 , and 12 mg / kg / day nilutamide ( 1 / 10 - 1 / 2 human AUC exposure ) for 1 year resulted in 8 % , 33 % , and 50 % mortality , respectively .
A “ no - effect level ” for nilutamide - induced mortality in dogs was not identified .
Pathology data from the one - year oral toxicity study suggest that the deaths in dogs were secondary to liver toxicity .
Marked - to - massive hepatocellular swelling and vacuolization were observed in affected dogs .
Liver toxicity in dogs was not consistently associated with elevations of liver enzymes .
Administration of nilutamide to rats at a dose level of 45 mg / kg / day ( AUC exposure in rats 1 - 2 times human therapeutic AUC exposures ) for 18 months increased the incidence of lung pathology ( granulomatous inflammation and chronic alveolitis ) .
The hepatic and pulmonary adverse effects observed in nilutamide - treated animals and men are similar to effects observed with another nitroaromatic compound , nitrofurantoin .
Nilutamide and nitrofurantoin are both metabolized in vitro to nitroanion free - radicals by microsomal NADPH - cytochrome P450 reductase in the lungs and liver of rats and humans .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trial Experience The following adverse experiences were reported during a multicenter clinical trial comparing Nilutamide + surgical castration versus placebo + surgical castration .
The most frequently reported ( greater than 5 % ) adverse experiences during treatment with Nilutamide tablets in combination with surgical castration are listed below .
For comparison , adverse experiences seen with surgical castration and placebo are also listed .
Adverse Experience Nilutamide + surgical castration ( N = 225 ) % All Placebo + surgical castration ( N = 232 ) % All Cardiovascular System Hypertension 5 . 3 2 . 6 Digestive System Nausea 9 . 8 6 . 0 Constipation 7 . 1 3 . 9 Endocrine System Hot flushes 28 . 4 22 . 4 Metabolic and Nutritional System Increased AST 8 . 0 3 . 9 Increased ALT 7 . 6 4 . 3 Nervous System Dizziness 7 . 1 3 . 4 Respiratory System Dyspnea 6 . 2 7 . 3 Special Senses Impaired adaptation to dark 12 . 9 1 . 3 Abnormal vision 6 . 7 1 . 7 Urogenital System Urinary tract infection 8 . 0 9 . 1 The overall incidence of adverse experiences was 86 % ( 194 / 225 ) for the Nilutamide group and 81 % ( 188 / 232 ) for the placebo group .
The following adverse experiences were reported during a multicenter clinical trial comparing Nilutamide + leuprolide versus placebo + leuprolide .
The most frequently reported ( greater than 5 % ) adverse experiences during treatment with Nilutamide tablets in combination with leuprolide are listed below .
For comparison , adverse experiences seen with leuprolide and placebo are also listed .
Adverse Experience Nilutamide + leuprolide ( N = 209 ) % All Placebo + leuprolide ( N = 202 ) % All Body as a Whole Pain 26 . 8 27 . 7 Headache 13 . 9 10 . 4 Asthenia 19 . 1 20 . 8 Back pain 11 . 5 16 . 8 Abdominal pain 10 . 0 5 . 4 Chest pain 7 . 2 4 . 5 Flu syndrome 7 . 2 3 . 0 Fever 5 . 3 6 . 4 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 9 . 1 9 . 9 Digestive System Nausea 23 . 9 8 . 4 Constipation 19 . 6 16 . 8 Anorexia 11 . 0 6 . 4 Dyspepsia 6 . 7 4 . 5 Vomiting 5 . 7 4 . 0 Endocrine System Hot flushes 66 . 5 59 . 4 Impotence 11 . 0 12 . 9 Libido decreased 11 . 0 4 . 5 Hemic and Lymphatic System Anemia 7 . 2 6 . 4 Metabolic and Nutritional System Increased AST 12 . 9 13 . 9 Peripheral edema 12 . 4 17 . 3 Increased ALT 9 . 1 8 . 9 Musculoskeletal System Bone Pain 6 . 2 5 . 0 Nervous System Insomnia 16 . 3 15 . 8 Dizziness 10 . 0 11 . 4 Depression 8 . 6 7 . 4 Hypesthesia 5 . 3 2 . 0 Respiratory System Dyspnea 10 . 5 7 . 4 Upper respiratory infection 8 . 1 10 . 9 Pneumonia 5 . 3 3 . 5 Skin and Appendages Sweating 6 . 2 3 . 0 Body hair loss 5 . 7 0 . 5 Dry skin 5 . 3 2 . 5 Rash 5 . 3 4 . 0 Special Senses Impaired adaptation to dark 56 . 9 5 . 4 Chromatopsia 8 . 6 0 . 0 Impaired adaptation to light 7 . 7 1 . 0 Abnormal vision 6 . 2 4 . 5 Urogenital System Testicular atrophy 16 . 3 12 . 4 Gynecomastia 10 . 5 11 . 9 Urinary tract infection 8 . 6 21 . 3 Hematuria 8 . 1 7 . 9 Urinary tract disorder 7 . 2 10 . 4 Nocturia 6 . 7 6 . 4 The overall incidence of adverse experiences is 99 . 5 % ( 208 / 209 ) for the Nilutamide group and 98 . 5 % ( 199 / 202 ) for the placebo group .
Some frequently occurring adverse experiences , for example hot flushes , impotence , and decreased libido , are known to be associated with low serum androgen levels and known to occur with medical or surgical castration alone .
Notable was the higher incidence of visual disturbances ( variously described as impaired adaptation to darkness , abnormal vision , and colored vision ) , which led to treatment discontinuation in 1 % to 2 % of patients .
Interstitial pneumonitis occurred in one ( < 1 % ) patient receiving Nilutamide in combination with surgical castration and in seven patients ( 3 % ) receiving Nilutamide in combination with leuprolide and one patient receiving placebo in combination with leuprolide .
Overall , it has been reported in 2 % of patients receiving Nilutamide .
This included a report of interstitial pneumonitis in 8 of 47 patients ( 17 % ) in a small study performed in Japan .
In addition , the following adverse experiences were reported in 2 to 5 % of patients treated with Nilutamide in combination with leuprolide or orchiectomy .
Body as a Whole : Malaise ( 2 % ) .
Cardiovascular System : Angina ( 2 % ) , heart failure ( 3 % ) , syncope ( 2 % ) .
Digestive System : Diarrhea ( 2 % ) , gastrointestinal disorder ( 2 % ) , gastrointestinal hemorrhage ( 2 % ) , melena ( 2 % ) .
Metabolic and Nutritional System : Alcohol intolerance ( 5 % ) , edema ( 2 % ) , weight loss ( 2 % ) .
Musculoskeletal System : Arthritis ( 2 % ) .
Nervous System : Dry mouth ( 2 % ) , nervousness ( 2 % ) , paresthesia ( 3 % ) .
Respiratory System : Cough increased ( 2 % ) , interstitial lung disease ( 2 % ) , lung disorder ( 4 % ) , rhinitis ( 2 % ) .
Skin and Appendages : Pruritus ( 2 % ) .
Special Senses : Cataract ( 2 % ) , photophobia ( 2 % ) .
Laboratory Values : Haptoglobin increased ( 2 % ) , leukopenia ( 3 % ) , alkaline phosphatase increased ( 3 % ) , BUN increased ( 2 % ) , creatinine increased ( 2 % ) , hyperglycemia ( 4 % ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE One case of massive overdosage has been published .
A 79 - year - old man attempted suicide by ingesting 13 g of nilutamide ( i . e . , 43 times the maximum recommended dose ) .
Despite immediate gastric lavage and oral administration of activated charcoal , plasma nilutamide levels peaked at 6 times the normal range 2 hours after ingestion .
There were no clinical signs or symptoms or changes in parameters such as transaminases or chest X - ray .
Maintenance treatment ( 150 mg / day ) was resumed 30 days later .
In repeated - dose tolerance studies , doses of 600 mg / day and 900 mg / day were administered to 9 and 4 patients , respectively .
The ingestion of these doses was associated with gastrointestinal disorders , including nausea and vomiting , malaise , headache , and dizziness .
In addition , a transient elevation in hepatic enzyme levels was noted in one patient .
Since nilutamide is protein bound , dialysis may not be useful as treatment for overdose .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting does not occur spontaneously , it should be induced if the patient is alert .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 300 mg once a day for 30 days , followed thereafter by 150 mg once a day .
Nilutamide tablets can be taken with or without food .
HOW SUPPLIED Nilutamide 150 mg tablets are supplied in boxes of 30 tablets .
Each box contains 3 child - resistant , PVC , aluminum foil - backed blisters of 10 tablets ( NDC 66993 - 212 - 38 ) .
Each white , biconvex , cylindrical ( 10 mm in diameter ) tablet has a triangular logo on one side and an internal reference number ( 168 D ) on the other .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Keep out of reach of children .
Revised 02 / 2019 Distributed by : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA © 2019 Prasco Laboratories All rights reserved .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 66993 - 212 - 38 Prasco Nilutamide Tablets 150 mg 30 Tablets RX only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
