Mouthwash Active ingredients Sodium fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % W / V fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Toothpaste Active Ingredients Sodium monofluorophosphate 0 . 88 % ( 0 . 115 % W / V flouride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Keep out of reach of children .
Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervison .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidently swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Shake well before use .
Adults and children 6 years of age and older : Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste .
Vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out .
Do not swallow the rinse .
Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing .
Instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) .
Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervison .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor .
Inactive Ingredients water , glycerin , propylene glycol , xylitol , peg - 40 hydrogenated castor oil , flavor , sodium citrate , zinc lactate , poloxamer 407 , chlorhexidine digluconate , citric acid , hydrochloric acid , oligopeptide - 104 , sodium hydroxide Inactive Ingredients water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , hydroxyapatite , xylitol , sodium coco - sulfate , xanthan gum , calcium carbonate , citric acid , flavor , zinc lactate , menthol , potassium sorbate , sodium benzoate , leontopodium alpinum flower / leaf extract , rhododendron ferrugineum extract , oligopeptide - 104 VVardis Set Strong Mint [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
