Active ingredient Sodium Fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 2 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Rinse Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings for this product Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 6 year of age and older : use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • remove cap • pour 10 milliliters ( 10 mL mark on inside of cap ) , do not fill above 10 mL mark • vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 year of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , calcium disodium EDTA , cetylpyridinium chloride , disodium EDTA , disodium phosphate , flavor , poloxomer 407 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , red 33 , sodium benzoate , sodium phosphate , sodium saccharin , sorbitol , water The ADA council on Scientific Affairs ' Acceptance of HEB Kid ' s Anticavity Fluoride Rinse is base on its findng tha tthe product is effective in helpig to prevent and reduce tooth decay , when used as directed .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , distributor of Act Anticavity Fluoride Rinse .
Sealed with printed neckband for your protection Guarantee : We believe the high quality of this HEB product makes it an outstanding value .
We hope you ' ll agree .
If not , we ' ll cherrfully refund your money .
Thanks for shopping with us .
adverse reaction Made with pride and care for HEB San Antonio , TX 78204 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 principal display panel ADA Accepted American Dental Association Helps prevent cavities Sealed wth printed neckband for your protection H - E - B BUBBLEGUM Anticavity Fluoride Mouthwash Helps prevent cavities IMPORTANT : read directions for proper use 18 FL OZ ( 1 . 13 PT ) 532 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
