DESCRIPTION BACTROBAN CREAM ( mupirocin calcium cream , 2 % ) contains the dihydrate crystalline calcium hemi - salt of the antibiotic mupirocin .
Chemically , it is ( αE , 2 S , 3 R , 4 R , 5 S ) - 5 - [ ( 2 S , 3 S , 4 S , 5 S ) - 2 , 3 - Epoxy - 5 - hydroxy - 4 - methylhexyl ] tetrahydro - 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - β - methyl - 2 H - pyran - 2 - crotonic acid , ester with 9 - hydroxynonanoic acid , calcium salt ( 2 : 1 ) , dihydrate .
The molecular formula of mupirocin calcium is ( C26H43O9 ) 2 Ca • 2H2O , and the molecular weight is 1075 . 3 .
The molecular weight of mupirocin free acid is 500 . 6 .
The structural formula of mupirocin calcium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] BACTROBAN CREAM is a white cream that contains 2 . 15 % w / w mupirocin calcium ( equivalent to 2 . 0 % mupirocin free acid ) in an oil and water - based emulsion .
The inactive ingredients are benzyl alcohol , cetomacrogol 1000 , cetyl alcohol , mineral oil , phenoxyethanol , purified water , stearyl alcohol , and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Systemic absorption of mupirocin through intact human skin is minimal .
The systemic absorption of mupirocin was studied following application of BACTROBAN CREAM 3 times daily for 5 days to various skin lesions ( > 10 cm in length or 100 cm2 in area ) in 16 adults ( aged 29 to 60 years ) and 10 children ( aged 3 to 12 years ) .
Some systemic absorption was observed as evidenced by the detection of the metabolite , monic acid , in urine .
Data from this study indicated more frequent occurrence of percutaneous absorption in children ( 90 % of patients ) compared to adults ( 44 % of patients ) ; however , the observed urinary concentrations in children ( 0 . 07 - 1 . 3 mcg / mL [ 1 pediatric patient had no detectable level ] ) are within the observed range ( 0 . 08 - 10 . 03 mcg / mL [ 9 adults had no detectable level ] ) in the adult population .
In general , the degree of percutaneous absorption following multiple dosing appears to be minimal in adults and children .
Any mupirocin reaching the systemic circulation is rapidly metabolized , predominantly to inactive monic acid , which is eliminated by renal excretion .
Microbiology Mupirocin is an antibacterial agent produced by fermentation using the organism Pseudomonas fluorescens .
It is active against a wide range of gram - positive bacteria including methicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
It is also active against certain gram - negative bacteria .
Mupirocin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by reversibly and specifically binding to bacterial isoleucyl transfer - RNA synthetase .
Due to this unique mode of action , mupirocin demonstrates no in vitro cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobial agents .
Resistance occurs rarely ; however , when mupirocin resistance does occur , it appears to result from the production of a modified isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase .
High - level plasmid - mediated resistance ( MIC > 1024 mcg / mL ) has been reported in some strains of Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase - negative staphylococci .
Mupirocin is bactericidal at concentrations achieved by topical application .
The minimum bactericidal concentration ( MBC ) against relevant pathogens is generally 8 - fold to 30 - fold higher than the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) .
In addition , mupirocin is highly protein bound ( > 97 % ) , and the effect of wound secretions on the MICs of mupirocin has not been determined .
Mupirocin has been shown to be active against most strains of S . aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes , both in vitro and in clinical studies .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE . )
The following in vitro data are available , BUT THEIR CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE IS UNKNOWN .
Mupirocin is active against most strains of Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus saprophyticus .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE BACTROBAN CREAM is indicated for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions ( up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm2 in area ) due to susceptible strains of S . aureus and S . pyogenes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS BACTROBAN CREAM is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the constituents of the product .
WARNINGS Avoid contact with the eyes .
In the event of a sensitization or severe local irritation from BACTROBAN CREAM , usage should be discontinued , and appropriate alternative therapy for the infection instituted .
PRECAUTIONS General As with other antibacterial products , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms , including fungi .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
BACTROBAN CREAM is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
Information for Patients • Use this medication only as directed by your healthcare provider .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• The treated area may be covered by gauze dressing if desired .
• Report to your healthcare provider any signs of local adverse reactions .
The medication should be stopped and your healthcare provider contacted if irritation , severe itching , or rash occurs .
• If no improvement is seen in 3 to 5 days , contact your healthcare provider .
Drug Interactions The effect of the concurrent application of topical mupirocin calcium cream and other topical products has not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential of mupirocin calcium have not been conducted .
Results of the following studies performed with mupirocin calcium or mupirocin sodium in vitro and in vivo did not indicate a potential for mutagenicity : Rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis , sediment analysis for DNA strand breaks , Salmonella reversion test ( Ames ) , Escherichia coli mutation assay , metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and bone marrow micronuclei assay in mice .
Fertility studies were performed in rats with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 49 times a human topical dose of 1 gram / day ( approximately 20 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility from mupirocin sodium .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Teratology studies have been performed in rats and rabbits with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 78 and 154 times , respectively , a human topical dose of 1 gram / day ( approximately 20 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to mupirocin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when BACTROBAN CREAM is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of BACTROBAN CREAM have been established in the age groups 3 months to 16 years .
Use of BACTROBAN CREAM in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of BACTROBAN CREAM in adults with additional data from 93 pediatric patients studied as part of the pivotal trials in adults .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
Geriatric Use In 2 well - controlled studies , 30 patients older than 65 years were treated with BACTROBAN CREAM .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of BACTROBAN CREAM was observed in this patient population when compared to that observed in younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 2 randomized , double - blind , double - dummy trials , 339 patients were treated with topical BACTROBAN CREAM plus oral placebo .
Adverse events thought to be possibly or probably drug - related occurred in 28 ( 8 . 3 % ) patients .
The incidence of those events that were reported in at least 1 % of patients enrolled in these trials were : Headache ( 1 . 7 % ) , rash , and nausea ( 1 . 1 % each ) .
Other adverse events thought to be possibly or probably drug - related which occurred in less than 1 % of patients were : Abdominal pain , burning at application site , cellulitis , dermatitis , dizziness , pruritus , secondary wound infection , and ulcerative stomatitis .
In a supportive study in the treatment of secondarily infected eczema , 82 patients were treated with BACTROBAN CREAM .
The incidence of adverse events thought to be possibly or probably drug - related was as follows : Nausea ( 4 . 9 % ) , headache , and burning at application site ( 3 . 6 % each ) , pruritus ( 2 . 4 % ) and 1 report each of abdominal pain , bleeding secondary to eczema , pain secondary to eczema , hives , dry skin , and rash .
OVERDOSAGE Intravenous infusions of 252 mg , as well as single oral doses of 500 mg of mupirocin , have been well tolerated in healthy adult subjects .
There is no information regarding overdose of BACTROBAN CREAM .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of BACTROBAN CREAM should be applied to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days .
The area treated may be covered with gauze dressing if desired .
Patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days should be re - evaluated .
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of topical BACTROBAN CREAM for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions ( e . g . , lacerations , sutured wounds , and abrasions not more than 10 cm in length or 100 cm2 in total area ) was compared to that of oral cephalexin in 2 randomized , double - blind , double - dummy clinical trials .
Clinical efficacy rates at follow - up in the per protocol populations ( adults and pediatric patients included ) were 96 . 1 % for BACTROBAN CREAM ( n = 231 ) and 93 . 1 % for oral cephalexin ( n = 219 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates at follow - up in the per protocol populations were 100 % for both BACTROBAN CREAM and oral cephalexin .
Pediatrics : There were 93 pediatric patients aged 2 weeks to 16 years enrolled per protocol in the secondarily infected skin lesion studies , although only 3 were less than 2 years of age in the population treated with BACTROBAN CREAM .
Patients were randomized to either 10 days of topical BACTROBAN CREAM 3 times daily or 10 days of oral cephalexin ( 250 mg 4 times daily for patients > 40 kg or 25 mg / kg / day oral suspension in 4 divided doses for patients ≤ 40 kg ) .
Clinical efficacy at follow - up ( 7 to 12 days post - therapy ) in the per protocol populations was 97 . 7 % ( 43 / 44 ) for BACTROBAN CREAM and 93 . 9 % ( 46 / 49 ) for cephalexin .
Only 1 adverse event ( headache ) was thought to be possibly or probably related to drug therapy with BACTROBAN CREAM in the intent - to - treat pediatric population of 70 children ( 1 . 4 % ) .
HOW SUPPLIED BACTROBAN CREAM is supplied in 15 - gram and 30 - gram tubes .
NDC 0029 - 1527 - 22 ( 15 - gram tube ) NDC 0029 - 1527 - 25 ( 30 - gram tube ) Store at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 BACTROBAN CREAM is a registered trademark of GlaxoSmithKline .
© 2005 , GlaxoSmithKline .
All rights reserved .
May 2005 BB : L7B BACTROBAN CREAM ® MUPIROCIN CALCIUM CREAM 2 % - PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
