[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION DARAPRIM ( pyrimethamine ) is an antiparasitic compound available in tablet form for oral administration .
Each scored tablet contains 25 mg pyrimethamine and the inactive ingredients corn and potato starch , lactose , and magnesium stearate .
Pyrimethamine , known chemically as 5 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - 6 - ethyl - 2 , 4 - pyrimidinediamine , has the following structural formula : C12H13CIN4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mol .
Wt .
248 . 71 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pyrimethamine is well absorbed with peak levels occurring between 2 to 6 hours following administration .
It is eliminated slowly and has a plasma half - life of approximately 96 hours .
Pyrimethamine is 87 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Microbiology : Pyrimethamine is a folic acid antagonist and the rationale for its therapeutic action is based on the differential requirement between host and parasite for nucleic acid precursors involved in growth .
This activity is highly selective against Toxoplasma gondii .
The action of pyrimethamine against Toxoplasma gondii is greatly enhanced when used in conjunction with sulfonamides .
This was demonstrated by Eyles and Coleman1 in the treatment of experimental toxoplasmosis in the mouse .
Jacobs et al2 demonstrated that combination of the 2 drugs effectively prevented the development of severe uveitis in most rabbits following the inoculation of the anterior chamber of the eye with toxoplasma .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of Toxoplasmosis : DARAPRIM is indicated for the treatment of toxoplasmosis when used conjointly with a sulfonamide , since synergism exists with this combination .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Use of DARAPRIM is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to pyrimethamine or to any component of the formulation .
Use of the drug is also contraindicated in patients with documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency .
WARNINGS The dosage of pyrimethamine required for the treatment of toxoplasmosis has a narrow therapeutic window .
If signs of folate deficiency develop ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) , reduce the dosage or discontinue the drug according to the response of the patient .
Folinic acid ( leucovorin ) should be administered in a dosage of 5 to 15 mg daily ( orally , IV , or IM ) until normal hematopoiesis is restored .
Data in 2 humans indicate that pyrimethamine may be carcinogenic ; a 51 - year - old female who developed chronic granulocytic leukemia after taking pyrimethamine for 2 years for toxoplasmosis3 and a 56 - year - old patient who developed reticulum cell sarcoma after 14 months of pyrimethamine for toxoplasmosis . 4 Pyrimethamine has been reported to produce a significant increase in the number of lung tumors in mice when given intraperitoneally at doses of 25 mg / kg . 5 DARAPRIM should be kept out of the reach of infants and children as they are extremely susceptible to adverse effects from an overdose .
Deaths in pediatric patients have been reported after accidental ingestion .
PRECAUTIONS General : A small " starting " dose for toxoplasmosis is recommended in patients with convulsive disorders to avoid the potential nervous system toxicity of pyrimethamine .
DARAPRIM should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function or in patients with possible folate deficiency , such as individuals with malabsorption syndrome , alcoholism , or pregnancy , and those receiving therapy , such as phenytoin , affecting folate levels ( see Pregnancy subsection ) .
Information for Patients : Patients should be warned that at the first appearance of a skin rash they should stop use of DARAPRIM and seek medical attention immediately .
Patients should also be warned that the appearance of sore throat , pallor , purpura , or glossitis may be early indications of serious disorders which require treatment with DARAPRIM to be stopped and medical treatment to be sought .
Women of childbearing potential who are taking DARAPRIM should be warned against becoming pregnant Patients should be warned to keep DARAPRIM out of the reach of children .
Patients should be advised not to exceed recommended doses .
Patients should be warned that if anorexia and vomiting occur , they may be minimized by taking the drug with meals .
Concurrent administration of folinic acid is strongly recommended when used for the treatment of toxoplasmosis in all patients .
Laboratory Tests : In patients receiving high dosage , semiweekly blood counts , including platelet counts , should be performed .
Drug Interactions : Pyrimethamine may be used with sulfonamides , quinine and other antimalarials , and with other antibiotics .
However , the concomitant use of other antifolic drugs or agents associated with myelosuppression including sulfonamides or trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole combinations , proguanil , zidovudine , or cytostatic agents ( e . g . , methotrexate ) , while the patient is receiving pyrimethamine , may increase the risk of bone marrow suppression .
If signs of folate deficiency develop , pyrimethamine should be discontinued .
Folinic acid ( leucovorin ) should be administered until normal hematopoiesis is restored ( see WARNINGS ) .
Mild hepatotoxicity has been reported in some patients when lorazepam and pyrimethamine were administered concomitantly .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : See WARNINGS section for information on carcinogenesis .
Mutagenesis : Pyrimethamine has been shown to be nonmutagenic in the following in vitro assays : the Ames point mutation assay , the Rec assay , and the E . coli WP2 assay .
It was positive in the L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma assay in the absence of exogenous metabolic activation . 6 Human blood lymphocytes cultured in vitro had structural chromosome aberrations induced by pyrimethamine .
In vivo , chromosomes analyzed from the bone marrow of rats dosed with pyrimethamine showed an increased number of structural and numerical aberrations .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Pyrimethamine has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in oral doses 2 . 5 times the human dose for treatment of toxoplasmosis .
At these doses in rats , there was a significant increase in abnormalities such as cleft palate , brachygnathia , oligodactyly , and microphthalmia .
Pyrimethamine has also been shown to produce terata such as meningocele in hamsters and cleft palate in miniature pigs when given in oral doses 5 times the human dose for the treatment of toxoplasmosis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
DARAPRIM should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Concurrent administration of folinic acid is strongly recommended when used during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers : Pyrimethamine is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from pyrimethamine and from concurrent use of a sulfonamide with DARAPRIM for treatment of some patients with toxoplasmosis , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Pregnancy ) .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of DARAPRIM did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions , occasionally severe ( such as Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , and anaphylaxis ) , and hyperphenylalaninemia , can occur particularly when pyrimethamine is administered concomitantly with a sulfonamide .
Consult the complete prescribing information for the relevant sulfonamide for sulfonamide - associated adverse events .
With doses of pyrimethamine used for the treatment of toxoplasmosis , anorexia and vomiting may occur .
Vomiting may be minimized by giving the medication with meals ; it usually disappears promptly upon reduction of dosage .
Doses used in toxoplasmosis may produce megaloblastic anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , pancytopenia , neutropenia , atrophic glossitis , hematuria , and disorders of cardiac rhythm .
Hematologic effects , however , may also occur at low doses in certain individuals ( see PRECAUTIONS ; General ) .
Pulmonary eosinophilia has been reported rarely .
OVERDOSAGE Following the ingestion of 300 mg or more of pyrimethamine , gastrointestinal and / or central nervous system signs may be present , including convulsions .
The initial symptoms are usually gastrointestinal and may include abdominal pain , nausea , severe and repeated vomiting , possibly including hematemesis .
Central nervous system toxicity may be manifest by initial excitability , generalized and prolonged convulsions which may be followed by respiratory depression , circulatory collapse , and death within a few hours .
Neurological symptoms appear rapidly ( 30 minutes to 2 hours after drug ingestion ) , suggesting that in gross overdosage pyrimethamine has a direct toxic effect on the central nervous system .
The fatal dose is variable , with the smallest reported fatal single dose being 375 mg .
There are , however , reports of pediatric patients who have recovered after taking 375 to 625 mg .
There is no specific antidote to acute pyrimethamine poisoning .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Gastric lavage is recommended and is effective if earned out very soon after drug ingestion .
Parenteral diazepam may be used to control convulsions .
Folinic acid should be administered within 2 hours of drug ingestion to be most effective in counteracting the effects on the hematopoietic system ( see WARNINGS ) .
Due to the long half - life of pyrimethamine , daily monitoring of peripheral blood counts is recommended for up to several weeks after the overdose until normal hematologic values are restored .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Treatment of Toxoplasmosis : The dosage of DARAPRIM for the treatment of toxoplasmosis must be carefully adjusted so as to provide maximum therapeutic effect and a minimum of side effects .
At the dosage required , there is a marked variation in the tolerance to the drug .
Young patients may tolerate higher doses than older individuals .
Concurrent administration of folinic acid is strongly recommended in all patients .
The adult starting dose is 50 to 75 mg of the drug daily , together with 1 to 4 g daily of a sulfonamide of the sulfapyrimidine type , e . g . sulfadoxine .
This dosage is ordinarily continued for 1 to 3 weeks , depending on the response of the patient and tolerance to therapy .
The dosage may then be reduced to about one half that previously given for each drug and continued for an additional 4 to 5 weeks .
The pediatric dosage of DARAPRIM is 1 mg / kg / day divided into 2 equal daily doses ; after 2 to 4 days this dose may be reduced to one half and continued for approximately 1 month .
The usual pediatric sulfonamide dosage is used in conjunction with DARAPRIM .
HOW SUPPLIED : White , scored tablets containing 25 mg pyrimethamine , imprinted with “ DARAPRIM ” and “ A3A " in bottles of 100 ( NDC 69413 - 330 - 10 ) and bottles of 30 ( NDC 69413 - 330 - 30 ) .
Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) in a dry place and protect from light REFERENCES • Eyles DE , Coleman N . Synergistic effect of sulfadiazine and Daraprim against experimental toxoplasmosis in the mouse .
Antibiot Chemother 1953 ; 3 : 483 - 490 .
• Jacobs L , Melton ML , Kaufman HE .
Treatment of experimental ocular toxoplasmosis .
Arch Ophthalmol .
1964 ; 71 : 111 - 118 .
• Jim RTS , Elizaga FV .
Development of chronic granulocytic leukemia in a patient treated with pyrimethamine .
Hawaii Med J . 1977 ; 36 : 173 - 176 .
• Sadoff L . Antimalarial drugs and Burkitt ' s lymphoma .
Lancet .
1973 ; 2 : 1262 - 1263 .
• Bahna L . Pyrimethamine .
LARC Monogr Eval Carcinog Risk Chem .
1977 ; 13 : 233 - 242 .
• Clive D , Johnson KO , Specter JKS , et al .
Validation and characterization of the L5178Y / TK + / - mouse lymphoma mutagen assay system .
Mut Res .
1979 ; 59 : 61 - 108 .
Distributed by : Vyera Pharmaceuticals LLC New York , New York 10016 004967 - PI - 005 018942 Rev . 8 / 2017 Principal Display Panel - Daraprim 100 Tablets Bottle Label VYERA PHARMACEUTICALS NDC 69413 - 330 - 10 DARAPRIM ® ( pyrimethamine ) 25 mg tablets Each scored tablet contains 25 mg Rx only 100 Tablets Warning : Potent Drug - do not exceed recommended dosage .
018939 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Daraprim 30 Tablets Bottle Label VYERA PHARMACEUTICALS NDC 69413 - 330 - 30 DARAPRIM ® ( pyrimethamine ) 25 mg tablets Each scored tablet contains 25 mg Rx only 30 Tablets Warning : Potent Drug - do not exceed recommended dosage .
018940 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ]
