Rx only DESCRIPTION Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is a fixed - dose combination of the antimalarial agents atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
The chemical name of atovaquone is trans - 2 - [ 4 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) cyclohexyl ] - 3 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthalenedione .
Atovaquone is a yellow crystalline solid that is practically insoluble in water .
It has a molecular weight of 366 . 84 and the molecular formula C22H19ClO3 .
The compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name of proguanil hydrochloride USP is 1 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - 5 - isopropyl - biguanide hydrochloride .
Proguanil hydrochloride USP is a white crystalline solid that is sparingly soluble in water .
It has a molecular weight of 290 . 22 and the molecular formula C11H16ClN5 • HCl .
The compound has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets are for oral administration .
Each atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet contains 250 mg of atovaquone and 100 mg of proguanil hydrochloride USP .
The inactive ingredients in the tablet are colloidal silicon dioxide , ferric oxide red , hypromellose 2910 , low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , poloxamer 188 , povidone K30 , polyethylene glycol 400 , polyethylene glycol 8000 , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology : Mechanism of Action : The constituents of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride interfere with 2 different pathways involved in the biosynthesis of pyrimidines required for nucleic acid replication .
Atovaquone is a selective inhibitor of parasite mitochondrial electron transport .
Proguanil hydrochloride primarily exerts its effect by means of the metabolite cycloguanil , a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor .
Inhibition of dihydrofolate reductase in the malaria parasite disrupts deoxythymidylate synthesis .
Activity In Vitro and In Vivo : Atovaquone and cycloguanil ( an active metabolite of proguanil ) are active against the erythrocytic and exoerythrocytic stages of Plasmodium spp .
Enhanced efficacy of the combination compared to either atovaquone or proguanil hydrochloride alone was demonstrated in clinical studies in both immune and non - immune patients ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Drug Resistance : Strains of P . falciparum with decreased susceptibility to atovaquone or proguanil / cycloguanil alone can be selected in vitro or in vivo .
The combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride may not be effective for treatment of recrudescent malaria that develops after prior therapy with the combination .
Pharmacokinetics : Absorption : Atovaquone is a highly lipophilic compound with low aqueous solubility .
The bioavailability of atovaquone shows considerable inter - individual variability .
Dietary fat taken with atovaquone increases the rate and extent of absorption , increasing AUC 2 to 3 times and Cmax 5 times over fasting .
The absolute bioavailability of the tablet formulation of atovaquone when taken with food is 23 % .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets should be taken with food or a milky drink .
Proguanil hydrochloride is extensively absorbed regardless of food intake .
Distribution : Atovaquone is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) over the concentration range of 1 to 90 mcg / mL .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that the apparent volume of distribution of atovaquone ( V / F ) in adult and pediatric patients after oral administration is approximately 8 . 8 L / kg .
Proguanil is 75 % protein bound .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that the apparent V / F of proguanil in adult and pediatric patients > 15 years of age with body weights from 31 to 110 kg ranged from 1 , 617 to 2 , 502 L .
In pediatric patients ’ ≤ 15 years of age with body weights from 11 to 56 kg , the V / F of proguanil ranged from 462 to 966 L .
In human plasma , the binding of atovaquone and proguanil was unaffected by the presence of the other .
Metabolism : In a study where 14 C - labeled atovaquone was administered to healthy volunteers , greater than 94 % of the dose was recovered as unchanged atovaquone in the feces over 21 days .
There was little or no excretion of atovaquone in the urine ( less than 0 . 6 % ) .
There is indirect evidence that atovaquone may undergo limited metabolism ; however , a specific metabolite has not been identified .
Between 40 % to 60 % of proguanil is excreted by the kidneys .
Proguanil is metabolized to cycloguanil ( primarily via CYP2C19 ) and 4 - chlorophenylbiguanide .
The main routes of elimination are hepatic biotransformation and renal excretion .
Elimination : The elimination half - life of atovaquone is about 2 to 3 days in adult patients . The elimination half - life of proguanil is 12 to 21 hours in both adult patients and pediatric patients , but may be longer in individuals who are slow metabolizers .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis in adult and pediatric patients showed that the apparent clearance ( CL / F ) of both atovaquone and proguanil are related to the body weight .
The values CL / F for both atovaquone and proguanil in subjects with body weight ≥ 11 kg are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Apparent Clearance for Atovaquone and Proguanil in Patients as a Function of Body Weight Body Weight Atovaquone Proguanil N CL / F ( L / hr ) Mean ± SD * ( range ) N CL / F ( L / hr ) Mean ± SD [ 1 ] ( range ) 11 - 20 Kg 159 1 . 34 ± 0 . 63 ( 0 . 52 - 4 . 26 ) 146 29 . 5 ± 6 . 5 ( 10 . 3 - 48 . 3 ) 21 - 30 Kg 117 1 . 87 ± 0 . 81 ( 0 . 52 - 5 . 38 ) 113 40 . 0 ± 7 . 5 ( 15 . 9 - 62 . 7 ) 31 - 40 Kg 95 2 . 76 ± 2 . 07 ( 0 . 97 - 12 . 5 ) 91 49 . 5 ± 8 . 30 ( 25 . 8 - 71 . 5 ) > 40 Kg 368 6 . 61 ± 3 . 92 ( 1 . 32 - 20 . 3 ) 282 67 . 9 ± 19 . 9 ( 14 . 0 - 145 ) [ 1 ] SD = standard deviation .
The pharmacokinetics of atovaquone and proguanil in patients with body weight below 11 kg have not been adequately characterized .
Special Populations : Pediatrics : The pharmacokinetics of proguanil and cycloguanil are similar in adult patients and pediatric patients .
However , the elimination half - life of atovaquone is shorter in pediatric patients ( 1 to 2 days ) than in adult patients ( 2 to 3 days ) .
In clinical trials , plasma trough levels of atovaquone and proguanil in pediatric patients weighing 5 to 40 kg were within the range observed in adults after dosing by body weight .
Geriatrics : In a single - dose study , the pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil were compared in 13 elderly subjects ( age 65 to 79 years ) to 13 younger subjects ( age 30 to 45 years ) .
In the elderly subjects , the extent of systemic exposure ( AUC ) of cycloguanil was increased ( point estimate = 2 . 36 , CI = 1 . 70 , 3 . 28 ) .
Tmax was longer in elderly subjects ( median 8 hours ) compared with younger subjects ( median 4 hours ) and average elimination half - life was longer in elderly subjects ( mean 14 . 9 hours ) compared with younger subjects ( mean 8 . 3 hours ) .
Hepatic Impairment : In a single - dose study , the pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil were compared in 13 subjects with hepatic impairment ( 9 mild , 4 moderate , as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) to 13 subjects with normal hepatic function .
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment as compared to healthy subjects , there were no marked differences ( < 50 % ) in the rate or extent of systemic exposure of atovaquone .
However , in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment , the elimination half - life of atovaquone was increased ( point estimate = 1 . 28 , 90 % CI = 1 . 00 to 1 . 63 ) .
Proguanil AUC , Cmax , and its t1 / 2 increased in subjects with mild hepatic impairment when compared to healthy subjects ( Table 2 ) .
Also , the proguanil AUC and its t1 / 2 increased in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment when compared to healthy subjects .
Consistent with the increase in proguanil AUC , there were marked decreases in the systemic exposure of cycloguanil ( Cmax and AUC ) and an increase in its elimination half - life in subjects with mild hepatic impairment when compared to healthy volunteers ( Table 2 ) .
There were few measurable cycloguanil concentrations in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The pharmacokinetics of atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil after administration of a tovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Table 2 .
Point Estimates ( 90 % CI ) for Proguanil and Cycloguanil Parameters in Subjects With Mild and Moderate Hepatic Impairment Compared to Healthy Volunteers ND = not determined due to lack of quantifiable data .
Parameter Comparison Proguanil Cycloguanil AUC ( 0 - inf ) mild : healthy 1 . 96 ( 1 . 51 , 2 . 54 ) 0 . 32 ( 0 . 22 , 0 . 45 ) Cmax [ 1 ] mild : healthy 1 . 41 ( 1 . 16 , 1 . 71 ) 0 . 35 ( 0 . 24 , 0 . 50 ) T 1 / 2 [ 2 ] mild : healthy 1 . 21 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 60 ) 0 . 86 ( 0 . 49 , 1 . 48 ) AUC ( 0 - inf ) null moderate : healthy 1 . 64 ( 1 . 14 , 2 . 34 ) ND Cmax null moderate : healthy 0 . 97 ( 0 . 69 , 1 . 36 ) ND T 1 / 2 null moderate : healthy 1 . 46 ( 1 . 05 , 2 . 05 ) ND [ 1 ] Ratio of geometric means .
[ 2 ] Mean difference .
Renal Impairment : In patients with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) , oral clearance and / or AUC data for atovaquone , proguanil , and cycloguanil are within the range of values observed in patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) .
In patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) , mean oral clearance for proguanil was reduced by approximately 35 % compared with patients with normal renal function ( creatinine clearance > 80 mL / min ) and the oral clearance of atovaquone was comparable between patients with normal renal function and mild renal impairment .
No data exist on the use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for long - term prophylaxis ( over 2 months ) in individuals with moderate renal failure .
In patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , atovaquone Cmax and AUC are reduced but the elimination half - lives for proguanil and cycloguanil are prolonged , with corresponding increases in AUC , resulting in the potential of drug accumulation and toxicity with repeated dosing ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug Interactions : There are no pharmacokinetic interactions between atovaquone and proguanil at the recommended dose .
Concomitant treatment with tetracycline has been associated with approximately a 40 % reduction in plasma concentrations of atovaquone .
Concomitant treatment with metoclopramide has also been associated with decreased bioavailability of atovaquone .
Concomitant administration of rifampin or rifabutin is known to reduce atovaquone levels by approximately 50 % and 34 % , respectively ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
The mechanisms of these interactions are unknown .
Concomitant administration of atovaquone ( 750 mg BID with food for 14 days ) and indinavir ( 800 mg TID without food for 14 days ) did not result in any change in the steady - state AUC and Cmax of indinavir but resulted in a decrease in the Ctrough of indinavir ( 23 % decrease [ 90 % CI 8 % , 35 % ] ) .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing atovaquone with indinavir due to the decrease in trough levels of indinavir .
Atovaquone is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) but does not displace other highly protein - bound drugs in vitro , indicating significant drug interactions arising from displacement are unlikely ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Proguanil is metabolized primarily by CYP2C19 .
Potential pharmacokinetic interactions with other substrates or inhibitors of this pathway are unknown .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prevention of Malaria : Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria , including in areas where chloroquine resistance has been reported ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Treatment of Malaria : Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of acute , uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in regions where the drugs chloroquine , halofantrine , mefloquine , and amodiaquine may have unacceptable failure rates , presumably due to drug resistance .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to atovaquone or proguanil hydrochloride or any component of the formulation .
Rare cases of anaphylaxis following treatment with atovaquone / proguanil have been reported .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is contraindicated for prophylaxis of P . falciparum malaria in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations : Renal Impairment ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride has not been evaluated for the treatment of cerebral malaria or other severe manifestations of complicated malaria , including hyperparasitemia , pulmonary edema , or renal failure .
Patients with severe malaria are not candidates for oral therapy .
Elevated liver function tests and rare cases of hepatitis have been reported with prophylactic use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
A single case of hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation has also been reported with prophylactic use .
Absorption of atovaquone may be reduced in patients with diarrhea or vomiting .
If atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is used in patients who are vomiting ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , parasitemia should be closely monitored and the use of an antiemetic considered .
Vomiting occurred in up to 19 % of pediatric patients given treatment doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
In the controlled clinical trials of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , 15 . 3 % of adults who were treated with atovaquone / proguanil received an antiemetic drug during that part of the trial when they received atovaquone / proguanil .
Of these patients , 98 . 3 % were successfully treated .
In patients with severe or persistent diarrhea or vomiting , alternative antimalarial therapy may be required .
Parasite relapse occurred commonly when P . vivax malaria was treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride alone .
In the event of recrudescent P . falciparum infections after treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or failure of chemoprophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , patients should be treated with a different blood schizonticide .
Information for Patients : Patients should be instructed : • • to take atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets at the same time each day with food or a milky drink .
• • to take a repeat dose of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride if vomiting occurs within 1 hour after dosing .
• • to take a dose as soon as possible if a dose is missed , then return to their normal dosing schedule .
However , if a dose is skipped , the patient should not double the next dose .
• • that rare serious adverse events such as hepatitis , severe skin reactions , neurological , and hematological events have been reported when atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was used for the prophylaxis or treatment of malaria .
• • to consult a healthcare professional regarding alternative forms of prophylaxis if prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is prematurely discontinued for any reason .
• • that protective clothing , insect repellants , and bednets are important components of malaria prophylaxis .
• • that no chemoprophylactic regimen is 100 % effective ; therefore , patients should seek medical attention for any febrile illness that occurs during or after return from a malaria - endemic area and inform their healthcare professional that they may have been exposed to malaria .
• • that falciparum malaria carries a higher risk of death and serious complications in pregnant women than in the general population .
Pregnant women anticipating travel to malarious areas should discuss the risks and benefits of such travel with their physicians ( see Pregnancy section ) .
Drug Interactions : Concomitant treatment with tetracycline has been associated with approximately a 40 % reduction in plasma concentrations of atovaquone .
Parasitemia should be closely monitored in patients receiving tetracycline .
While antiemetics may be indicated for patients receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , metoclopramide may reduce the bioavailability of atovaquone and should be used only if other antiemetics are not available .
Concomitant administration of rifampin or rifabutin is known to reduce atovaquone levels by approximately 50 % and 34 % , respectively .
The concomitant administration of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and rifampin or rifabutin is not recommended .
Proguanil may potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarin - based anticoagulants .
The mechanism of this potential drug interaction has not been established .
Caution is advised when initiating or withdrawing malaria prophylaxis or treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in patients on continuous treatment with coumarin - based anticoagulants .
When these products are administered concomitantly , suitable coagulation tests should be closely monitored .
Atovaquone is highly protein bound ( > 99 % ) but does not displace other highly protein - bound drugs in vitro , indicating significant drug interactions arising from displacement are unlikely .
Potential interactions between proguanil or cycloguanil and other drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates or inhibitors are unknown .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Atovaquone : Carcinogenicity studies in rats were negative ; 24 - month studies in mice showed treatment - related increases in incidence of hepatocellular adenoma and hepatocellular carcinoma at all doses tested which ranged from approximately 5 to 8 times the average steady - state plasma concentrations in humans during prophylaxis of malaria .
Atovaquone was negative with or without metabolic activation in the Ames Salmonella mutagenicity assay , the Mouse Lymphoma mutagenesis assay , and the Cultured Human Lymphocyte cytogenetic assay .
No evidence of genotoxicity was observed in the in vivo Mouse Micronucleus assay .
Proguanil : No evidence of a carcinogenic effect was observed in 24 - month studies conducted in CD - 1 mice ( doses up to 1 . 5 times the average systemic human exposure based on AUC ) and in Wistar Hannover rats ( doses up to 1 . 1 times the average systemic human exposure ) .
Proguanil was negative with or without metabolic activation in the Ames Salmonella mutagenicity assay and the Mouse Lymphoma mutagenesis assay .
No evidence of genotoxicity was observed in the in vivo Mouse Micronucleus assay .
Cycloguanil , the active metabolite of proguanil , was also negative in the Ames test , but was positive in the Mouse Lymphoma assay and the Mouse Micronucleus assay .
These positive effects with cycloguanil , a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor , were significantly reduced or abolished with folinic acid supplementation .
A fertility study in Sprague - Dawley rats revealed no adverse effects at doses up to 16 mg / kg / day of proguanil hydrochloride ( up to 0 . 2 - times the average human exposure based on AUC comparisons . )
Fertility studies of proguanil in animals at exposures similar to or greater than those observed in humans have not been conducted .
Genotoxicity studies have not been performed with atovaquone in combination with proguanil .
Effects of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride on male and female reproductive performance are unknown .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Falciparum malaria carries a higher risk of morbidity and mortality in pregnant women than in the general population .
Maternal death and fetal loss are both known complications of falciparum malaria in pregnancy .
In pregnant women who must travel to malaria - endemic areas , personal protection against mosquito bites should always be employed ( see Information for Patients ) in addition to antimalarials .
Atovaquone was not teratogenic and did not cause reproductive toxicity in rats at maternal plasma concentrations up to 5 to 6 . 5 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria .
Following single - dose administration of 14 C - labeled atovaquone to pregnant rats , concentrations of radiolabel in rat fetuses were 18 % ( mid - gestation ) and 60 % ( late gestation ) of concurrent maternal plasma concentrations .
In rabbits , atovaquone caused maternal toxicity at plasma concentrations that were approximately 0 . 6 to 1 . 3 times the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria .
Adverse fetal effects in rabbits , including decreased fetal body lengths and increased early resorptions and post - implantation losses , were observed only in the presence of maternal toxicity .
Concentrations of atovaquone in rabbit fetuses averaged 30 % of the concurrent maternal plasma concentrations .
A pre - and post - natal study in Sprague - Dawley rats revealed no adverse effects at doses up to 16 mg / kg / day of proguanil hydrochloride ( up to 0 . 2 - times the average human exposure based on AUC comparisons . )
Pre - and post - natal studies of proguanil in animals at exposures similar to or greater than those observed in humans have not been conducted .
The combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was not teratogenic in rats at plasma concentrations up to 1 . 7 and 0 . 10 times , respectively , the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria .
In rabbits , the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was not teratogenic or embryotoxic to rabbit fetuses at plasma concentrations up to 0 . 34 and 0 . 82 times , respectively , the estimated human exposure during treatment of malaria .
While there are no adequate and well - controlled studies of atovaquone and / or proguanil hydrochloride in pregnant women , atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride may be used if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The proguanil component of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride acts by inhibiting the parasitic dihydrofolate reductase ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Microbiology : Mechanism of Action ) .
However , there are no clinical data indicating that folate supplementation diminishes drug efficacy , and for women of childbearing age receiving folate supplements to prevent neural tube birth defects , such supplements may be continued while taking atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether atovaquone is excreted into human milk .
In a rat study , atovaquone concentrations in the milk were 30 % of the concurrent atovaquone concentrations in the maternal plasma .
Proguanil is excreted into human milk in small quantities .
Caution should be exercised when atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use : Treatment of Malaria : The efficacy and safety of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of malaria have been established in controlled studies involving pediatric patients weighing 5 kg or more ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients who weigh less than 5 kg .
Prophylaxis of Malaria : The efficacy and safety of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride have been established for the prophylaxis of malaria in controlled studies involving pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients who weigh less than 11 kg .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , the higher systemic exposure to cycloguanil ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations : Geriatrics ) , and the greater frequency of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Because atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride contains atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , the type and severity of adverse reactions associated with each of the compounds may be expected .
The higher treatment doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were less well tolerated than the lower prophylactic doses .
Among adults who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for treatment of malaria , attributable adverse experiences that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients were abdominal pain ( 17 % ) , nausea ( 12 % ) , vomiting ( 12 % ) , headache ( 10 % ) , diarrhea ( 8 % ) , asthenia ( 8 % ) , anorexia ( 5 % ) , and dizziness ( 5 % ) .
Treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience in 4 of 436 adults treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Among pediatric patients ( weighing 11 to 40 kg ) who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of malaria , attributable adverse experiences that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients were vomiting ( 10 % ) and pruritus ( 6 % ) .
Vomiting occurred in 43 of 319 ( 13 % ) pediatric patients who did not have symptomatic malaria but were given treatment doses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for 3 days in a clinical trial .
The design of this clinical trial required that any patient who vomited be withdrawn from the trial .
Among pediatric patients with symptomatic malaria treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience in 1 of 116 ( 0 . 9 % ) .
In a study of 100 pediatric patients ( 5 to < 11 kg body weight ) who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for the treatment of uncomplicated P . falciparum malaria , only diarrhea ( 6 % ) occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients as an adverse experience attributable to atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
In 3 patients ( 3 % ) , treatment was discontinued prematurely due to an adverse experience .
Abnormalities in laboratory tests reported in clinical trials were limited to elevations of transaminases in malaria patients being treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
The frequency of these abnormalities varied substantially across studies of treatment and were not observed in the randomized portions of the prophylaxis trials .
In one phase III trial of malaria treatment in Thai adults , early elevations of ALT and AST were observed to occur more frequently in patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride compared to patients treated with an active control drug .
Rates for patients who had normal baseline levels of these clinical laboratory parameters were : Day 7 : ALT 26 . 7 % vs . 15 . 6 % ; AST 16 . 9 % vs . 8 . 6 % .
By day 14 of this 28 - day study , the frequency of transaminase elevations equalized across the 2 groups .
In this and other studies in which transaminase elevations occurred , they were noted to persist for up to 4 weeks following treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for malaria .
None were associated with untoward clinical events .
Among subjects who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for prophylaxis of malaria in placebo - controlled trials , adverse experiences occurred in similar proportions of subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or placebo ( Table 3 ) .
The most commonly reported adverse experiences possibly attributable to atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or placebo were headache and abdominal pain .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was discontinued prematurely due to a treatment - related adverse experience in 3 of 381 adults and 0 of 125 pediatric patients .
Table 3 .
Adverse Experiences in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of Malaria Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiences ( Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiences Attributable to Therapy ) Adverse Experience Adults Children and Adolescents Placebo n = 206 Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride [ 1 ] n = 206 Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride [ 2 ] n = 381 Placebo n = 140 Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride n = 125 Headache 27 ( 7 ) 22 ( 3 ) 17 ( 5 ) 21 ( 14 ) 19 ( 14 ) Fever 13 ( 1 ) 5 ( 0 ) 3 ( 0 ) 11 ( < 1 ) 6 ( 0 ) Myalgia 11 ( 0 ) 12 ( 0 ) 7 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) Abdominal pain 10 ( 5 ) 9 ( 4 ) 6 ( 3 ) 29 ( 29 ) 33 ( 31 ) Cough 8 ( < 1 ) 6 ( < 1 ) 4 ( 1 ) 9 ( 0 ) 9 ( 0 ) Diarrhea 8 ( 3 ) 6 ( 2 ) 4 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( 0 ) Upper respiratory infection 7 ( 0 ) 8 ( 0 ) 5 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) < 1 ( 0 ) Dyspepsia 5 ( 4 ) 3 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) Back pain 4 ( 0 ) 8 ( 0 ) 4 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) Gastritis 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 3 ) 2 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) Vomiting 2 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) < 1 ( < 1 ) 6 ( 6 ) 7 ( 7 ) Flu syndrome 1 ( 0 ) 2 ( 0 ) 4 ( 0 ) 6 ( 0 ) 9 ( 0 ) Any adverse experience 65 ( 32 ) 54 ( 17 ) 49 ( 17 ) 62 ( 41 ) 60 ( 42 ) [ 1 ] Subjects receiving the recommended dose of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in placbo - controlled trials .
[ 2 ] Subjects receiving the recommended dose of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in any trial .
In an additional placebo - controlled study of malaria prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride involving 330 pediatric patients in a malaria - endemic area ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) , the safety profile of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was consistent with that described above .
The most common treatment - emergent adverse events with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were abdominal pain ( 13 % ) , headache ( 13 % ) , and cough ( 10 % ) .
Abdominal pain ( 13 % vs . 8 % ) and vomiting ( 5 % vs . 3 % ) were reported more often with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than with placebo , while fever ( 5 % vs . 12 % ) and diarrhea ( 1 % vs . 5 % ) were more common with placebo .
No patient withdrew from the study due to an adverse experience with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
No routine laboratory data were obtained during this study .
Among subjects who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride for prophylaxis of malaria in clinical trials with an active comparator , adverse experiences occurred in a similar or lower proportion of subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than an active comparator ( Table 4 ) .
The mean durations of dosing and the periods for which the adverse experiences are summarized in Table 4 , were 28 days ( Study 1 ) and 26 days ( Study 2 ) for atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , 53 days for mefloquine , and 49 days for chloroquine plus proguanil ( reflecting the different recommended dosing regimens ) .
Fewer neuropsychiatric adverse experiences occurred in subjects who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than mefloquine .
Fewer gastrointestinal adverse experiences occurred in subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride than chloroquine / proguanil .
Compared with active comparator drugs , subjects receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride had fewer adverse experiences overall that were attributed to prophylactic therapy ( Table 4 ) .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was discontinued prematurely due to a treatment - related adverse experience in 7 of 1 , 004 travelers .
Table 4 .
Adverse Experiences in Active - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of Malaria * Adverse experiences that started while receiving active study drug .
Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiences ( Percent of Subjects With Adverse Experiences Attributable to Therapy ) Study 1 Study 2 Adverse Experience Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride n = 493 Mefloquine n = 483 Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride n = 511 Chloroquine Plus Proguanil n = 511 Diarrhea 38 ( 8 ) 36 ( 7 ) 34 ( 5 ) 39 ( 7 ) Nausea 14 ( 3 ) 20 ( 8 ) 11 ( 2 ) 18 ( 7 ) Abdominal pain 17 ( 5 ) 16 ( 5 ) 14 ( 3 ) 22 ( 6 ) Headache 12 ( 4 ) 17 ( 7 ) 12 ( 4 ) 14 ( 4 ) Dreams 7 ( 7 ) 16 ( 14 ) 6 ( 4 ) 7 ( 3 ) Insomnia 5 ( 3 ) 16 ( 13 ) 4 ( 2 ) 5 ( 2 ) Fever 9 ( < 1 ) 11 ( 1 ) 8 ( < 1 ) 8 ( < 1 ) Dizziness 5 ( 2 ) 14 ( 9 ) 7 ( 3 ) 8 ( 4 ) Vomiting 8 ( 1 ) 10 ( 2 ) 8 ( 0 ) 14 ( 2 ) Oral ulcers 9 ( 6 ) 6 ( 4 ) 5 ( 4 ) 7 ( 5 ) Pruritus 4 ( 2 ) 5 ( 2 ) 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( < 1 ) Visual difficulties 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) Depression < 1 ( < 1 ) 5 ( 4 ) < 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Anxiety 1 ( < 1 ) 5 ( 4 ) < 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Any adverse experience 64 ( 30 ) 69 ( 42 ) 58 ( 22 ) 66 ( 28 ) Any neuropsychiatric event 20 ( 14 ) 37 ( 29 ) 16 ( 10 ) 20 ( 10 ) Any GI event 49 ( 16 ) 50 ( 19 ) 43 ( 12 ) 54 ( 20 ) In a third active - controlled study , atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 110 ) was compared with chloroquine / proguanil ( n = 111 ) for the prophylaxis of malaria in 221 non - immune pediatric patients ( see CLINICAL STUDIES ) .
The mean duration of exposure was 23 days for atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride , 46 days for chloroquine , and 43 days for proguanil , reflecting the different recommended dosage regimens for these products .
Fewer patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride reported abdominal pain ( 2 % vs . 7 % ) or nausea ( < 1 % vs . 7 % ) than children who received chloroquine / proguanil .
Oral ulceration ( 2 % vs . 2 % ) , vivid dreams ( 2 % vs . < 1 % ) , and blurred vision ( 0 % vs . 2 % ) occurred in similar proportions of patients receiving either atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or chloroquine / proguanil , respectively .
Two patients discontinued prophylaxis with chloroquine / proguanil due to adverse events , while none of those receiving atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride discontinued due to adverse events .
Post - Marketing Adverse Reactions : In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during world - wide post - approval use of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Neutropenia and rarely anemia .
Pancytopenia in patients with severe renal impairment treated with proguanil .
Immune System Disorders : Allergic reactions including angioedema , urticaria , and rare cases of anaphylaxis and vasculitis .
Nervous System Disorders : Rare cases of seizures and psychotic events ( such as hallucinations ) ; however , a causal relationship has not been established .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Stomatitis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Elevated liver function tests and rare cases of hepatitis ; a single case of hepatitis , cholestatis ; failure requiring transplant has been reported .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Photosensitivity , rash , and rare cases of erythema multiforme and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
OVERDOSAGE There is no information on overdoses of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride substantially higher than the doses recommended for treatment .
There is no known antidote for atovaquone , and it is currently unknown if atovaquone is dialyzable .
The median lethal dose is higher than the maximum oral dose tested in mice and rats ( 1 , 825 mg / kg / day ) .
Overdoses up to 31 , 500 mg of atovaquone have been reported .
In one such patient who also took an unspecified dose of dapsone , methemoglobinemia occurred .
Rash has also been reported after overdose .
Overdoses of proguanil hydrochloride as large as 1 , 500 mg have been followed by complete recovery , and doses as high as 700 mg twice daily have been taken for over 2 weeks without serious toxicity .
Adverse experiences occasionally associated with proguanil hydrochloride doses of 100 to 200 mg / day , such as epigastria discomfort and vomiting would be likely to occur with overdose .
There are also reports of reversible hair loss and scaling of the skin on the palms and / or soles , reversible aphthous ulceration , and hematologic side effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The daily dose should be taken at the same time each day with food or a milky drink .
In the event of vomiting within 1 hour after dosing , a repeat dose should be taken .
Prevention of Malaria : Prophylactic treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride should be started 1 or 2 days before entering a malaria - endemic area and continued daily during the stay and for 7 days after return .
Adults : One atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet ( adult strength = 250 mg atovaquone / 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride ) per day .
Treatment of Acute Malaria : Adults : Four Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets ( adult strength ; total daily dose 1 g atovaquone / 400 mg proguanil hydrochloride ) as a single dose daily for 3 consecutive days .
Patients with Renal Impairment : Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet should not be used for malaria prophylaxis in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablet may be used with caution for the treatment of malaria in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , only if the benefits of the 3 - day treatment regimen outweigh the potential risks associated with increased drug exposure ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations : Renal Impairment ) .
No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild ( creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL / min ) and moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL / min ) renal impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations ) .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : No dosage adjustments are needed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Special Populations : Hepatic Impairment ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets , containing 250 mg atovaquone and 100 mg proguanil hydrochloride , are pinkish brown to brown colored , circular , biconvex beveled edge , film - coated tablets with ‘ 404 ’ debossed on one side and ‘ G ’ debossed on the other side .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets 250 mg / 100 mg NDC 33261 - 900 - 01 unit dose pack of 24 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Fibrovascular proliferation in the right atrium , pyelonephritis , bone marrow hypocellularity , lymphoid atrophy , and gastritis / enteritis were observed in dogs treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 12 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 . 9 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Bile duct hyperplasia , gall bladder mucosal atrophy , and interstitial pneumonia were observed in dogs treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 4 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 3 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Mucosal hyperplasia of the cecum and renal tubular basophilia were observed in rats treated with proguanil hydrochloride for 6 months at a dose of 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the recommended daily human dose for malaria prophylaxis on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Adverse heart , lung , liver , and gall bladder effects observed in dogs and kidney effects observed in rats were not shown to be reversible .
CLINICAL STUDIES Treatment of Acute Malarial Infections : In 3 phase II clinical trials , atovaquone alone , proguanil hydrochloride alone , and the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were evaluated for the treatment of acute , uncomplicated malaria caused by P . falciparum .
Among 156 evaluable patients , the parasitological cure rate was 59 / 89 ( 66 % ) with atovaquone alone , 1 / 17 ( 6 % ) with proguanil hydrochloride alone , and 50 / 50 ( 100 % ) with the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was evaluated for treatment of acute , uncomplicated malaria caused by P . falciparum in 8 phase III controlled clinical trials .
Among 471 evaluable patients treated with the equivalent of 4 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride tablets once daily for 3 days , 464 had a sensitive response ( elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days ) ( see Table 5 ) .
Seven patients had a response of RI resistance ( elimination of parasitemia but with recurrent parasitemia between 7 and 28 days after starting treatment ) .
In these trials , the response to treatment with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was similar to treatment with the comparator drug in 4 trials , and better than the response to treatment with the comparator drug in the other 4 trials .
The overall efficacy in 521 evaluable patients was 98 . 7 % ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 .
Parasitological Response in Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Treatment of P . falciparum Malaria Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride [ 1 ] Comparator Study Site Evaluable Patients ( n ) % Sensitive Response [ 2 ] Drug ( s ) Evaluable Patients ( n ) % Sensitive Response null Brazil 74 98 . 6 % Quinine and tetracycline 76 100 . 0 % Thailand 79 100 . 0 % Mefloquine 79 86 . 1 % France [ 3 ] 21 100 . 0 % Halofantrine 18 100 . 0 % Kenya null , [ 4 ] 81 93 . 8 % Halofantrine 83 90 . 4 % Zambia 80 100 . 0 % Pyrimethamine / sulfadoxine ( P / S ) 80 98 . 8 % Gabon null 63 98 . 4 % Amodiaquine 63 81 . 0 % Phillipines 54 100 . 0 % Chloroquine ( C / q ) Cq and P / S 23 32 30 . 4 % 87 . 5 % Peru 19 100 . 0 % Chloroquine P / S 13 7 7 . 7 % 100 . 0 % [ 1 ] Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride = 1 , 000 mg atovaquone and 400 mg proguanil hydrochloride ( or equivalent based on body weight for patients weighing ≤ 40 kg ) once daily for 3 days .
[ 2 ] Elimination of parasitemia with no recurrent parasitemia during follow - up for 28 days .
[ 3 ] Patients hospitalized only for acute care .
Follow - up conducted in outpatients .
[ 4 ] Study in pediatric patients 3 to 12 years of age .
Eighteen of 521 ( 3 . 5 % ) evaluable patients with acute falciparum malaria presented with a pretreatment serum creatinine greater than 2 . 0 mg / dL ( range 2 . 1 to 4 . 3 mg / dL ) .
All were successfully treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and 17 of 18 ( 94 . 4 % ) had normal serum creatinine levels by day 7 .
Data from a phase II trial of atovaquone conducted in Zambia suggested that approximately 40 % of the study population in this country were HIV - infected patients .
The enrollment criteria were similar for the phase III trial of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride conducted in Zambia and the results are presented in Table 5 .
Efficacy rates for atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in this study population were high and comparable to other populations studied .
The efficacy of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride in the treatment of the erythrocytic phase of nonfalciparum malaria was assessed in a small number of patients .
Of the 23 patients in Thailand infected with P . vivax and treated with atovaquone / proguanil hydrochloride 1 , 000 mg / 400 mg daily for 3 days , parasitemia cleared in 21 ( 91 . 3 % ) at 7 days .
Parasite relapse occurred commonly when P . vivax malaria was treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride alone .
Seven patients in Gabon with malaria due to P . ovale or P . malariae were treated with atovaquone / proguanil hydrochloride 1 , 000 mg / 400 mg daily for 3 days .
All 6 evaluable patients ( 3 with P . malariae , 2 with P . ovale , and 1 with mixed P . falciparum and P . ovale ) were cured at 28 days .
Relapsing malarias including P . vivax and P . ovale require additional treatment to prevent relapse .
Prevention of Malaria : Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride was evaluated for prophylaxis of malaria in 5 clinical trials in malaria - endemic areas and in 3 active - controlled trials in non - immune travelers to malaria - endemic areas .
Three placebo - controlled studies of 10 to 12 weeks ' duration were conducted among residents of malaria - endemic areas in Kenya , Zambia , and Gabon .
Of a total of 669 randomized patients ( including 264 pediatric patients 5 to 16 years of age ) , 103 were withdrawn for reasons other than falciparum malaria or drug - related adverse events .
( Fifty - five percent of these were lost to follow - up and 45 % were withdrawal for protocol violations ) .
The results are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 .
Prevention of Parasitemia in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria in Residents of Malaria - Endemic Areas Atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride Placebo Total number of patients randomized 326 341 Failed to complete study 57 44 Developed parasitemia ( P . falciparum ) 2 92 In another study , 330 Gabonese pediatric patients ( weighing 13 to 40 kg , and aged 4 to 14 years ) who had received successful open - label radical cure treatment with artesunate , were randomized to receive either atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( dosage based on body weight ) or placebo in a double - blind fashion for 12 weeks .
Blood smears were obtained weekly and any time malaria was suspected .
Nineteen of the 165 children given atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and 18 of 165 patients given placebo withdrew from the study for reasons other than parasitemia ( primary reason was lost to follow - up ) .
In the per - protocol population , 1 out of 150 patients ( < 1 % ) who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride developed P . falciparum parasitemia while receiving prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride compared with 31 ( 22 % ) of the 144 placebo recipients .
In a 10 - week study in 175 South African subjects who moved into malaria - endemic areas and were given prophylaxis with 1 atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride daily , parasitemia developed in 1 subject who missed several doses of medication .
Since no placebo control was included , the incidence of malaria in this study was not known .
Two active - controlled studies were conducted in non - immune travelers who visited a malaria - endemic area .
The mean duration of travel was 18 days ( range 2 to 38 days ) .
Of a total of 1 , 998 randomized patients who received atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride or controlled drug , 24 discontinued from the study before follow - up evaluation 60 days after leaving the endemic area .
Nine of these were lost to follow - up , 2 withdrew because of an adverse experience , and 13 were discontinued for other reasons .
These studies were not large enough to allow for statements of comparative efficacy .
In addition , the true exposure rate to P . falciparum malaria in both studies is unknown .
The results are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Prevention of Parasitemia in Active - Controlled Clinical Trials of Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride for Prophylaxis of P . falciparum Malaria in Non - Immune Travelers Atovaquone and Proguanil hydrochloride Mefloquine Chloroquine Plus Proguanil Total number of randomized patients who received study drug 1 , 004 483 511 Failed to complete study 14 6 4 Developed parasitemia ( P . falciparum ) 0 0 3 A third randomized , open - label study was conducted which included 221 otherwise healthy pediatric patients ( weighing ≥ 11 kg and 2 to 17 years of age ) who were at risk of contracting malaria by traveling to an endemic area .
The mean duration of travel was 15 days ( range 1 to 30 days ) .
Prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( n = 110 , dosage based on body weight ) began 1 or 2 days before entering the endemic area and lasted until 7 days after leaving the area .
A control group ( n = 111 ) received prophylaxis with chloroquine / proguanil dosed according to WHO guidelines .
No cases of malaria occurred in either group of children .
However , the study was not large enough to allow for statements of comparative efficacy .
In addition , the true exposure rate to P . falciparum malaria in this study is unknown .
In a malaria challenge study conducted in healthy US volunteers , atovaquone alone prevented malaria in 6 of 6 individuals , whereas 4 of 4 placebo - treated volunteers developed malaria .
Causal Prophylaxis : In separate studies with small numbers of volunteers , atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride were independently shown to have causal prophylactic activity directed against liver - stage parasites of P . falciparum .
Six patients given a single dose of atovaquone 250 mg 24 hours prior to malaria challenge were protected from developing malaria , whereas all 4 placebo - treated patients developed malaria .
During the 4 weeks following cessation of prophylaxis in clinical trial participants who remained in malaria - endemic areas and were available for evaluation , malaria developed in 24 of 211 ( 11 . 4 % ) subjects who took placebo and 9 of 328 ( 2 . 7 % ) who took atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
While new infections could not be distinguished from recrudescent infections , all but 1 of the infections in patients treated with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride occurred more than 15 days after stopping therapy , probably representing new infections .
The single case occurring on day 8 following cessation of therapy with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride probably represents a failure of prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride .
The possibility that delayed cases of P . falciparum malaria may occur some time after stopping prophylaxis with atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride cannot be ruled out .
Hence , returning travelers developing febrile illnesses should be investigated for malaria .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Generics Ltd .
Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403 513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Generics Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkgenerics . com Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
Corona , CA 92880 January 2011 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton - label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bottle - Label
