Active Ingredients Methyl Salicylate 200 . 0 mg L - Menthol 60 . 0 mg Tocopherol Acetate 1 . 0 mg Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain associated with : • Arthritis • Simple backache • Muscle strains • Sprains • Bruises • Cramps Warnings For external use only allergy alert : If prone to allergic reaction from aspirin or salicylates or allergic to any ingredients in this product , consult a doctor before use .
When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes or rashes • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • do not apply to wounds or damaged , broken irritated skin • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) or a medicated patch to the area of use • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • if severe burning sensation occurs , discontinue use immediately • do not expose the area treated with product to heat or direct sunlight • avoid applying into skin folds stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • redness is present • irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • apply a thin layer to affected area • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed into skin repeat as necessary , but no more than 3 to 4 times daily • AFTER APPLYING , WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER Children undress 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information • Avoid storing product in direct sunlight , store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • Store with lid closed tightly Inactive Ingredients Nonylic acid vanillyamide , Carbomer 941 , Light liquid paraffin , Polysorbate 60 , Sorbital Monostearate .
Lanolin oil , Triethanolamine , Fresh yuja flavor , Purified water SINSINPAS AREX LOTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
