DESCRIPTION Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % ( 1 . 5 mg brimonidine tartrate per mL equivalent to 1 . 0 mg brimonidine free base per mL ) is a relatively selective alpha - 2 - adrenergic agonist for ophthalmic use .
The chemical name of brimonidine tartrate is 5 - bromo - 6 - ( 2 - imidazolidinylideneamino ) quinoxaline L - tartrate .
It is an off - white to pale yellow powder .
It has a molecular weight of 442 . 24 as the tartrate salt , and is both soluble in water ( 1 . 5 mg / mL ) and in the product vehicle ( 3 . 0 mg / mL ) at pH 7 . 2 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] In solution , Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % has a clear , greenish - yellow color .
It has an osmolality of 250 - 350 mOsmol / kg and a pH of 6 . 6 - 7 . 4 .
Each mL of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % contains : Active ingredient : brimonidine tartrate 0 . 15 % ( 1 . 5 mg / mL ) Inactives : povidone ; boric acid ; sodium borate ; calcium chloride ; magnesium chloride ; potassium chloride ; mannitol ; sodium chloride ; POLYQUAD * 0 . 001 % ( 0 . 01 mg / mL ) ; purified water ; with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is an alpha - 2 adrenergic receptor agonist .
It has a peak ocular hypotensive effect occurring at two hours post - dosing .
Fluorophotometric studies in animals and humans suggest that brimonidine tartrate has a dual mechanism of action by reducing aqueous humor production and increasing uveoscleral outflow .
Pharmacokinetics : In a pharmacokinetic study , 14 healthy subjects ( 4 males and 10 females ) received a single topical ocular administration of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % , one drop per eye .
The peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and AUC 0 - inf were 73 ± 19 pg / mL and 375 ± 89 pg • hr / mL , respectively .
Tmax was 1 . 7 ± 0 . 7 hours after dosing .
The systemic half - life was approximately 2 . 1 hours .
Brimonidine is metabolized primarily by the liver .
In vitro metabolism data from human microsomal fractions and liver slices indicate that brimonidine undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism .
Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of brimonidine and its metabolites .
Approximately 87 % of an orally administered radioactive dose of brimonidine was eliminated within 120 hours , with 74 % of the radioactivity recovered in the urine .
Special Populations Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
Because of the low systemic drug exposure following topical ocular administration of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % , no dose adjustment is necessary when treating patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
Clinical Evaluations : Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
Brimonidine tartrate has the action of lowering intraocular pressure with minimal effect on cardiovascular and pulmonary parameters .
A clinical study was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % compared to Alphagan ® P ** administered three - times - daily in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
The results indicated that Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is equivalent in IOP - lowering effect to Alphagan ® P ( brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution ) , 0 . 15 % , and effectively lowers IOP in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension by 2 - 6 mm Hg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is indicated for the lowering of intraocular pressure in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to brimonidine tartrate or any component of this medication .
It is also contraindicated in patients receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor therapy .
PRECAUTIONS General : Although Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % had minimal effect on the blood pressure of patients in clinical studies , caution should be exercised in treating patients with severe cardiovascular disease .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment ; caution should be used in treating such patients .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % should be used with caution in patients with depression , cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , orthostatic hypotension , or thromboangiitis obliterans .
Patients prescribed IOP - lowering medication should be routinely monitored for IOP .
Information for Patients : As with other drugs in this class , Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % may cause fatigue and / or drowsiness in some patients .
Patients who engage in hazardous activities should be cautioned of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness .
Drug Interactions : Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , or anesthetics ) should be considered .
Alpha - 2 agonists , as a class , may reduce pulse and blood pressure .
Caution in using concomitant drugs such as beta - blockers ( ophthalmic and systemic ) , anti - hypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides is advised .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine .
It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % in humans can interfere with its IOP - lowering effect .
No data on the level of circulating catecholamines after Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % administration are available .
Caution , however , is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants , which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : No compound - related carcinogenic effects were observed in either mice or rats following a 21 - month and a 24 - month study , respectively .
In these studies , dietary administration of brimonidine tartrate at doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day in mice and 1 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats achieved 60 and 50 times , respectively , the plasma drug concentration estimated in humans treated with one drop of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % into both eyes .
Brimonidine tartrate was not mutagenic or cytogenic in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies including the Ames test , chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , a host - mediated assay and cytogenic studies in mice , and dominant lethal assay .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category : B Reproductive studies performed in rats and rabbits with oral doses of 0 . 66 mg base / kg revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % .
Dosing at this level produced an exposure in rats and rabbits that is 80 and 40 times higher than the exposure seen in humans , respectively .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
In animal studies , brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the fetal circulation to a limited extent .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
In animal studies , brimonidine tartrate was excreted in breast milk .
A decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : In a well - controlled clinical study conducted in pediatric glaucoma patients ( ages 2 to 7 years ) the most commonly observed adverse events with brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution 0 . 2 % dosed three - times - daily were somnolence ( 50 % - 83 % in patients ages 2 to 6 years ) and decreased alertness .
In pediatric patients 7 years of age or older ( > 20 kg ) , somnolence appears to occur less frequently ( 25 % ) .
Approximately 16 % of patients on brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution discontinued from the study due to somnolence .
The safety and effectiveness of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution have not been studied in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years .
Brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years .
( Also refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS section . )
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse events occurring in approximately 10 - 20 % of the subjects included : allergic conjunctivitis , conjunctival hyperemia , and eye pruritis .
Adverse events occurring in approximately 5 - 9 % of the subjects included : burning sensation , conjunctival folliculosis , hypertension , ocular allergic reaction , oral dryness , and visual disturbance .
Events occurring in approximately 1 - 4 % of subjects included : allergic reaction , arthralgia , arthritis , asthenia , blepharitis , blepharoconjunctivitis , blurred vision , bronchitis , cataract , chest pain , conjunctival edema , conjunctival hemorrhage , conjunctivitis , cough , dizziness , diabetes mellitus , dyspepsia , dyspnea , epiphora , eye discharge , eye dryness , eye irritation , eye pain , eyelid edema , eyelid erythema , fatigue , flu syndrome , follicular conjunctivitis , foreign body sensation , gastrointestinal disorder , headache , hypercholesterolemia , hypotension , infection , insomnia , joint disorder , keratitis , lid disorder , osteoporosis , pharyngitis , photophobia , rash , rhinitis , sinus infection , sinusitis , somnolence , stinging , superficial punctate keratopathy , tearing , visual field defect , vitreous detachment , vitreous disorder , vitreous floaters , and worsened visual acuity .
The following events were reported in less than 1 % of subjects : corneal erosion , nasal dryness , and taste perversion .
The following events have been identified during post - marketing use of brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions , or a combination of these factors , include : bradycardia ; iritis ; miosis ; skin reactions ( including erythema , eyelid pruritis , rash , and vasodilation ) ; and tachycardia .
Apnea , bradycardia , hypotension , hypothermia , hypotonia , and somnolence have been reported in infants receiving brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solutions .
OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdosage in humans .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % in the affected eye ( s ) three - times - daily , approximately 8 hours apart .
Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic product is being used , the products should be administered at least 5 minutes apart .
HOW SUPPLIED Brimonidine Tartrate Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 15 % is supplied sterile in opaque white LDPE plastic bottles and natural tips with purple polypropylene caps as follows : 10 mL in 10 mL bottle NDC 54868 - 6094 - 0 Storage : Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Rx Only Distributed by : Falcon Pharmaceuticals , Ltd .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 Manufactured by : Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 Printed in USA * POLYQUAD is a registered trademark of Alcon Research , Ltd .
** ALPHAGAN P is a registered trademark of Allergan , Inc .
349040 - 1008 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Brimonidine Tartrate Opthalmic Solution [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
