This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Aloe Barbadenis Leaf Juice .
• Caprylyl Glycol .
• Glycerin .
• Phenoxyethanol .
• Polysorate - 20 .
• Purified Water .
• Tocopheryl Acetate .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient SD Alcohol 40 75 % Antimicrobial Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Use subsection identifying number is Sequence 4 .
change incorporated in the label on 4 / 2021 .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughtly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Center right away .
Directions • Use enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together biskly until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Directions Identifying number of subsection is 9 .
change incorporated in the label 04 / 2021 .
Other information • Store below 110 F ( 43 C ) • May discolor fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Caprylyl Glycol , Fragrance , Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate - 20 , Purified Water , Tocopheryl Acetate .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 58133 - 959 - 63 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
