WARNING : ADRENAL CRISIS IN THE SETTING OF SHOCK OR SEVERE TRAUMA In patients taking LYSODREN , adrenal crisis occurs in the setting of shock or severe trauma and response to shock is impaired .
Administer hydrocortisone , monitor for escalating signs of shock and discontinue LYSODREN until recovery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : ADRENAL CRISIS IN THE SETTING OF SHOCK OR SEVERE TRAUMA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
In patients taking LYSODREN , adrenal crisis occurs in the setting of shock or severe trauma and response to shock is impaired .
Administer hydrocortisone , monitor for escalating signs of shock and discontinue LYSODREN until recovery .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LYSODREN is indicated for the treatment of patients with inoperable , functional or nonfunctional , adrenal cortical carcinoma .
LYSODREN is an adrenal cytotoxic agent indicated for the treatment of inoperable , functional or nonfunctional , adrenal cortical carcinoma .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initial dose : 2 g to 6 g orally daily , in three or four divided doses .
( 2 . 1 ) • Increase dose incrementally to achieve a blood concentration of 14 to 20 mg / L , or as tolerated .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended initial dose of LYSODREN is 2 g to 6 g orally , in three or four divided doses per day .
Increase doses incrementally to achieve a blood concentration of 14 to 20 mg / L , or as tolerated .
LYSODREN is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications Adrenal Crisis in the Setting of Shock or Severe Trauma Discontinue LYSODREN until recovery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity Discontinue LYSODREN until symptoms resolve .
Seven to 10 days after symptoms resolve , restart at a lower dose ( for example , decrease by 500 - 1000 mg ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 500 mg white , round , biconvex , scored tablets , bisected on one side and impressed with " BL " over " L1 " on the other side .
Tablets : 500 mg , scored ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Toxicity : Plasma concentrations exceeding 20 mcg / mL are associated with a greater incidence of toxicity .
( 5 . 2 ) • Adrenal Insufficiency : Institute steroid replacement as clinically indicated .
Measure free cortisol and corticotropin ( ACTH ) levels to achieve optimal steroid replacement .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise women of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Ovarian Macrocysts in Premenopausal Women : Advise women to seek medical advice if they experience gynecological symptoms such as vaginal bleeding and / or pelvic pain .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Adrenal Crisis in the Setting of Shock or Severe Trauma In patients taking LYSODREN , adrenal crisis occurs in the setting of shock or severe trauma and response to shock is impaired .
Administer hydrocortisone , monitor for escalating signs of shock , and discontinue LYSODREN until recovery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 CNS Toxicity CNS toxicity , including sedation , lethargy , and vertigo , occurs with LYSODREN treatment .
Mitotane plasma concentrations exceeding 20 mcg / mL are associated with a greater incidence of toxicity .
5 . 3 Adrenal Insufficiency Treatment with LYSODREN can cause adrenal insufficiency .
Institute steroid replacement as clinically indicated .
Measure free cortisol and corticotropin ( ACTH ) levels to achieve optimal steroid replacement .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity LYSODREN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Abnormal pregnancy outcomes , such as preterm births and early pregnancy loss , can occur in patients exposed to mitotane during pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with LYSODREN and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Ovarian Macrocysts in Premenopausal Women Ovarian macrocysts , often bilateral and multiple , have been reported in premenopausal patients receiving LYSODREN .
Complications from these cysts , including adnexal torsion and hemorrhagic cyst rupture , have been reported .
In some cases , improvement after mitotane discontinuation has been described .
Advise female patients to seek medical care if they experience gynecological symptoms such as vaginal bleeding and / or pelvic pain [ seeAdverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Adrenal Crisis in the Setting of Shock or Severe Trauma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • CNS Toxicity [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Adrenal Insufficiency [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Ovarian macrocysts [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of LYSODREN were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Common adverse reactions occurring with LYSODREN treatment include : • Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea ( 80 % ) • Depression , dizziness , or vertigo ( 15 % - 40 % ) • Rash ( 15 % ) • Neutropenia • Growth retardation , hypothyroidism • Confusion , headache , ataxia , mental impairment , weakness , dysarthria • Maculopathy • Hepatitis , elevation of liver enzymes • Gynecomastia • Hypercholesterolemia , hypertriglyceridemia • Decreased blood androstenedione and decreased blood testosterone in females , increased sex hormone binding globulin in females and males , decreased blood free testosterone in males .
Less common adverse reactions include : visual blurring , diplopia , lens opacity , retinopathy , prolonged bleeding time , hematuria , hemorrhagic cystitis , albuminuria , hypertension , orthostatic hypotension , flushing , generalized aching , fever and hypogonadism ( in males ) .
Common adverse reactions ( ≥ 15 % ) include : anorexia , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ; depression , dizziness or vertigo ; and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Direct Success Inc . at 844 - 597 - 6373 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Certain CYP3A Substrates : Avoid concomitant use with CYP3A substrates for which minimal concentration changes may lead to therapeutic failure .
( 7 . 1 ) • Adjust dosage of concomitant coumarin - type anticoagulants as needed .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Certain CYP3A Substrates Mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer .
Concomitant use of LYSODREN may decrease the concentrations of CYP3A substrates , which may reduce the efficacy of these substrates .
Avoid the concomitant use of LYSODREN with certain CYP3A4 substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to therapeutic failure .
If concomitant use cannot be avoided , increase the CYP3A substrate dosage in accordance with approved product labeling .
7 . 2 Warfarin When administering coumarin - type anticoagulants to patients receiving LYSODREN , monitor coagulation tests and adjust the anticoagulant dose as needed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Do not breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • • Hepatic Impairment : Administer LYSODREN with caution to patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary LYSODREN can cause fetal harm .
Limited postmarketing cases report preterm births and early pregnancy loss in women treated with LYSODREN during pregnancy .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with mitotane .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Mitotane is excreted in human milk ; however , the effect of LYSODREN on the breastfed infant , or effect on milk production is unknown .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant , advise nursing women that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with LYSODREN and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Females LYSODREN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with LYSODREN and after discontinuation of therapy for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of LYSODREN did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Hepatic impairment may interfere with the metabolism of mitotane and the drug may accumulate .
Administer LYSODREN with caution to patients with hepatic impairment .
11 DESCRIPTION LYSODREN ( mitotane ) is an oral adrenal cytotoxic agent .
The chemical name is ( ± ) - 1 , 1 - dichloro - 2 - ( o - chlorophenyl ) - 2 - ( p - chlorophenyl ) ethane ( also known as o , p ′ - DDD ) .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mitotane is a white granular solid composed of clear colorless crystals .
It is tasteless and has a slight pleasant aromatic odor .
It is soluble in ethanol and has a molecular weight of 320 . 05 .
Inactive ingredients in LYSODREN are : microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 3350 , silicon dioxide , and starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mitotane is an adrenal cytotoxic agent with an unknown mechanism of action .
Mitotane modifies the peripheral metabolism of steroids and directly suppresses the adrenal cortex .
A reduction in 17 - hydroxycorticosteroids in the absence of decreased corticosteroid concentrations and increased formation of 6 - β - hydroxycortisol have been reported .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of mitotane are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of LYSODREN , 40 % of the dose is absorbed .
Distribution Mitotane is found in most tissues of the body ; however , fat is the primary site of distribution .
Elimination Following discontinuation of mitotane , the plasma terminal half - life ranges from 18 to 159 days ( median 53 days ) .
Metabolism Mitotane is converted to a water - soluble metabolite .
Excretion No unchanged mitotane is found in urine or bile .
Approximately 10 % of the administered dose is recovered in the urine as a water - soluble metabolite .
A variable amount of metabolite ( 1 % - 17 % ) is excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of mitotane are unknown .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LYSODREN tablets are supplied as 500 mg white , round , biconvex , scored tablets , bisected on one side and impressed with " BL " over " L1 " on the other side .
100 tablets per bottle : NDC 76336 - 080 - 60 Store bottles at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Mitotane is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures [ see References ( 15 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Adrenal Crisis • • Advise patients to discontinue LYSODREN in the case of shock or severe trauma and contact their healthcare provider immediately .
• • Advise patients to tell their healthcare provider of any planned surgeries .
Ovarian Macrocysts • Advise premenopausal women to seek medical care if they experience gynecological symptoms such as vaginal bleeding and / or pelvic pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • • Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as instructed by their healthcare provider [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation • • Advise females who are nursing not to breastfeed during treatment with LYSODREN [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Address medical inquiries to : Direct Success Inc . 1710 Hwy 34 Farmingdale , NJ 07727 844 - 597 - 6373 844 Lysodren Fax : ( 855 ) 674 - 6767 Manufactured by : Corden Pharma Latina S . p . A . Via Murillo No . 7 04013 Sermoneta ( Latina ) Italy For : HRA Pharma Rare Diseases PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Tablet Bottle Carton NDC 76336 - 080 - 60 LYSODREN ( mitotane ) tablets , for oral use EACH TABLET CONTAINS 500 mg 100 Tablets Rx only HRA Pharma Rare Diseases [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
