Drug Facts Salicylic Acid 0 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the management of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Do not use on • broken skin • large areas of the skin Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin , even layer two to three times per week • leave on for 15 - 20 minutes and rinse with warm water and a damp cloth Other information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive Ingredients Water , PPG - 3 Benzyl Ether Myristate , Glyceryl Stearate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Zinc Oxide , Cetyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Polysorbate 60 , Camphor , Ceteareth - 20 , Titanium Dioxide , Colloidal Sulfur , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Yellow 5 , Blue 1 .
Clear Out SLMD SANDRA LEE MD Clear Out Purifying Treatment Mask Salicylic Acid Acne Treatment SKIN CARE BY DR . PIMPLE POPPER Net Wt .
2 . 1 oz .
/ 60 g Dermatologist formulated , skincare for all Sandre Lee , MD - pop colture ' s favorite dermatologist - founded SLMD Skincare to bridge the gap between the cluttered skincare aisle and a doctor ' s visit .
Inspired by the philosophy of democratizing dermatology ™ and understanding that no skin type is the same , SLMD is committed to offering dermatologist - backed products and information - to empower everyone to make better , healthier skincare choices .
Clear Out Sit back , relax , and let Clear Out do the work .
This acne - fighting mask treats blemishes and helps prevent their return with acne - controlling ingredients and calming minerals - Salicylic Acid , Sulfur , and Zinc Oxide .
It gently exfoliates , absorbs excess oil , and eliminates acne - causing bacteria - leaving skin looking clearer and feeling smoother .
How to use : Apply an even layer to clean skin , avoiding the eye area .
Leave on for 15 - 20 minutes and rinse with warm water and a damp cloth .
Use two to three times per week .
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 Made in the USA 2 . 1 Oz Jar Label : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 1 Oz .
Unit Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Oz .
Tube : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Oz .
Carton : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
