1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VENTOLIN HFA is a beta2 - adrenergic agonist indicated for : • • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
( 1 . 1 ) • • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients aged 4 years and older .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Bronchospasm VENTOLIN ® HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
1 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm VENTOLIN HFA is indicated for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients aged 4 years and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • For oral inhalation only .
( 2 ) • • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adults and children aged 4 years and older : 2 inhalations every 4 to 6 hours .
For some patients , 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in adults and children aged 4 years and older : 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Priming information : Prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Cleaning information : At least once a week , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Bronchospasm For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of symptoms associated with bronchospasm , the usual dosage for adults and children is 2 inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours ; in some patients , 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations is not recommended .
2 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm For prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm , the usual dosage for adults and children aged 4 years and older is 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
2 . 3 Administration Information VENTOLIN HFA should be administered by the orally inhaled route only .
Priming : Priming VENTOLIN HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
Prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
Cleaning : To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely at least once a week .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Inhalation Aerosol .
Blue plastic inhaler with a blue strapcap containing a pressurized metered - dose aerosol canister containing 60 or 200 metered inhalations and fitted with a counter .
Each actuation delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate ( 90 mcg of albuterol base ) from the mouthpiece .
Inhalation Aerosol .
Inhaler containing 108 mcg albuterol sulfate ( 90 mcg albuterol base ) as an aerosol formulation for oral inhalation .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VENTOLIN HFA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to any ingredient .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Life - threatening paradoxical bronchospasm may occur .
Discontinue VENTOLIN HFA immediately and institute alternative therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Need for more doses of VENTOLIN HFA than usual may be a sign of deterioration of asthma and requires reevaluation of treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • • VENTOLIN HFA is not a substitute for corticosteroids .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Cardiovascular effects may occur .
Use with caution in patients sensitive to sympathomimetic drugs and patients with cardiovascular or convulsive disorders .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 7 ) • • Excessive use may be fatal .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur .
Discontinue VENTOLIN HFA immediately .
( 5 . 6 ) • • Hypokalemia and changes in blood glucose may occur .
( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Paradoxical Bronchospasm VENTOLIN HFA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with VENTOLIN HFA , it should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy should be instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of VENTOLIN HFA than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
5 . 3 Use of Anti - inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids , to the therapeutic regimen .
5 . 4 Cardiovascular Effects VENTOLIN HFA , like all other beta2 - adrenergic agonists , can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients such as changes in pulse rate or blood pressure .
If such effects occur , VENTOLIN HFA may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , VENTOLIN HFA , like all other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with underlying cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
5 . 5 Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected .
5 . 6 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , hypotension ) , including anaphylaxis , may occur after administration of VENTOLIN HFA [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Coexisting Conditions VENTOLIN HFA , like other sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia Beta - adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of VENTOLIN HFA may be associated with the following : • • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Cardiovascular effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 3 % ) are throat irritation , viral respiratory infections , upper respiratory inflammation , cough , and musculoskeletal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflects exposure to VENTOLIN HFA in 248 subjects treated with VENTOLIN HFA in 3 placebo - controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks ’ duration .
The data from adults and adolescents is based upon 2 clinical trials in which 202 subjects with asthma aged 12 years and older were treated with VENTOLIN HFA 2 inhalations 4 times daily for 12 weeks ’ duration .
The adult / adolescent population was 92 female , 110 male and 163 white , 19 black , 18 Hispanic , 2 other .
The data from pediatric subjects are based upon 1 clinical trial in which 46 subjects with asthma aged 4 to 11 years were treated with VENTOLIN HFA 2 inhalations 4 times daily for 2 weeks ’ duration .
The population was 21 female , 25 male and 25 white , 17 black , 3 Hispanic , 1 other .
Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older : The two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind trials in 610 adult and adolescent subjects with asthma that compared VENTOLIN HFA , a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler , and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler .
Overall , the incidence and nature of the adverse reactions reported for VENTOLIN HFA and a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler were comparable .
Table 1 lists the incidence of all adverse reactions ( whether considered by the investigator to be related or unrelated to drug ) from these trials that occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA and more frequently in the group treated with VENTOLIN HFA than in the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler group .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions with VENTOLIN HFA with ≥ 3 % Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Adult and Adolescent SubjectsAdverse Reaction Percent of Subjects VENTOLIN HFA ( n = 202 ) % CFC 11 / 12 - Propelled Albuterol Inhaler ( n = 207 ) % Placebo HFA - 134 a ( n = 201 ) % Ear , nose , and throat • Throat irritation 10 6 7 • Upper respiratory inflammation 5 5 2 Lower respiratory • Viral respiratory infections 7 4 4 • Cough 5 2 2 Musculoskeletal • Musculoskeletal pain 5 5 4 Adverse reactions reported by less than 3 % of the adult and adolescent subjects receiving VENTOLIN HFA and by a greater proportion of subjects receiving VENTOLIN HFA than receiving HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler and that have the potential to be related to VENTOLIN HFA include diarrhea , laryngitis , oropharyngeal edema , cough , lung disorders , tachycardia , and extrasystoles .
Palpitations and dizziness have also been observed with VENTOLIN HFA .
Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years : Results from the 2 - week clinical trial in pediatric subjects with asthma aged 4 to 11 years showed that this pediatric population had an adverse reaction profile similar to that of the adult and adolescent populations .
Three trials have been conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in subjects between birth and 4 years of age .
The results of these trials did not establish the efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in this age - group [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Since the efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA has not been demonstrated in children between birth and 48 months of age , the safety of VENTOLIN HFA in this age - group cannot be established .
However , the safety profile observed in the pediatric population younger than 4 years was comparable to that observed in the older pediatric subjects and in adults and adolescents .
Where adverse reaction incidence rates were greater in subjects younger than 4 years compared with older subjects , the higher incidence rates were noted in all treatment arms , including placebo .
These adverse reactions included upper respiratory tract infection , nasopharyngitis , pyrexia , and tachycardia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of albuterol sulfate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or causal connection to albuterol or a combination of these factors .
Cases of paradoxical bronchospasm , hoarseness , arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia ) , and hypersensitivity reactions ( including urticaria , angioedema , rash ) have been reported after the use of VENTOLIN HFA .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypokalemia , hypertension , peripheral vasodilatation , angina , tremor , central nervous system stimulation , hyperactivity , sleeplessness , headache , muscle cramps , drying or irritation of the oropharynx , and metabolic acidosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with albuterol .
If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route , they should be used with caution to avoid deleterious cardiovascular effects .
• • Beta - blockers : Use with caution .
May block bronchodilatory effects of beta - agonists and produce severe bronchospasm .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Diuretics : Use with caution .
Electrocardiographic changes and / or hypokalemia associated with non – potassium - sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta - agonists .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Digoxin : May decrease serum digoxin levels .
Consider monitoring digoxin levels .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants : Use with extreme caution .
May potentiate effect of albuterol on vascular system .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Beta - Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta - blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as VENTOLIN HFA , but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents for these patients ; cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 2 Non – Potassium - Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non ‑ potassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of VENTOLIN HFA with non – potassium - sparing diuretics .
7 . 3 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single - dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical relevance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving inhaled albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants VENTOLIN HFA should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled trials with VENTOLIN HFA or albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
No consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , and a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Animal reproduction studies in mice and rabbits revealed evidence of teratogenicity .
VENTOLIN HFA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Women should be advised to contact their physicians if they become pregnant while taking VENTOLIN HFA .
In a mouse reproduction study , subcutaneously administered albuterol sulfate produced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at exposures less than the maximum recommended human daily inhalation dose ( MRHDID ) for adults on a mg / m2 basis and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at approximately 8 times the MRHDID .
Similar effects were not observed at approximately one eleventh of the MRHDID .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
In a rabbit reproduction study , orally administered albuterol sulfate produced cranioschisis in 7 of 19 fetuses ( 37 % ) at approximately 680 times the MRHDID .
In another rabbit study , an albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation administered by inhalation produced enlargement of the frontal portion of the fetal fontanelles at approximately one third of the MRHDID .
Nonteratogenic Effects : A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery There are no well - controlled human trials that have investigated effects of VENTOLIN HFA on preterm labor or labor at term .
Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of VENTOLIN HFA during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of albuterol sulfate and HFA - 134 a after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low in humans , but it is not known whether the components of VENTOLIN HFA are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in animal studies and lack of experience with the use of VENTOLIN HFA by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Caution should be exercised when VENTOLIN HFA is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA in children aged 4 years and older have been established based upon two 12 - week clinical trials in subjects aged 12 years and older with asthma and one 2 - week clinical trial in subjects aged 4 to 11 years with asthma [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA in children younger than 4 years have not been established .
Three trials have been conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA in subjects younger than 4 years and the findings are described below .
Two 4 - week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials were conducted in 163 pediatric subjects aged from birth to 48 months with symptoms of bronchospasm associated with obstructive airway disease ( presenting symptoms included : wheeze , cough , dyspnea , or chest tightness ) .
VENTOLIN HFA or placebo HFA was delivered with either an AeroChamber Plus ® Valved Holding Chamber or an Optichamber ® Valved Holding Chamber with mask 3 times daily .
In one trial , VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg ( n = 26 ) , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg ( n = 25 ) , and placebo HFA ( n = 26 ) were administered to children aged between 24 and 48 months .
In the second trial , VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg ( n = 29 ) , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg ( n = 29 ) , and placebo HFA ( n = 28 ) were administered to children aged between birth and 24 months .
Over the 4 - week treatment period , there were no treatment differences in asthma symptom scores between the groups receiving VENTOLIN HFA 90 mcg , VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg , and placebo in either trial .
In a third trial , VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in 87 pediatric subjects younger than 24 months for the treatment of acute wheezing .
VENTOLIN HFA was delivered with an AeroChamber Plus Valved Holding Chamber in this trial .
There were no significant differences in asthma symptom scores and mean change from baseline in an asthma symptom score between VENTOLIN HFA 180 mcg and VENTOLIN HFA 360 mcg .
In vitro dose characterization studies were performed to evaluate the delivery of VENTOLIN HFA via holding chambers with attached masks .
The studies were conducted with 2 different holding chambers with masks ( small and medium size ) .
The in vitro study data when simulating patient breathing suggest that the dose of VENTOLIN HFA presented for inhalation via a valved holding chamber with mask will be comparable to the dose delivered in adults without a spacer and mask per kilogram of body weight ( Table 2 ) .
However , clinical trials in children younger than 4 years described above suggest that either the optimal dose of VENTOLIN HFA has not been defined in this age - group or VENTOLIN HFA is not effective in this age - group .
The safety and effectiveness of VENTOLIN HFA administered with or without a spacer device in children younger than 4 years have not been demonstrated .
Table 2 .
In Vitro Medication Delivery through AeroChamber Plus ® Valved Holding Chamber with a MaskAge Mask Flow Rate ( L / min ) Holding Time ( seconds ) Mean Medication Delivery through AeroChamber Plus ( mcg / actuation ) Body Weight 50 th Percentile ( kg ) a Medication Delivered per Actuation ( mcg / kg ) b 6 to 12 Months Small 4 . 9 0 2 5 10 18 . 2 19 . 8 13 . 8 15 . 4 7 . 5 - 9 . 9 1 . 8 - 2 . 4 2 . 0 - 2 . 6 1 . 4 - 1 . 8 1 . 6 - 2 . 1 2 to 5 Years Small 8 . 0 0 2 5 10 17 . 8 16 . 0 16 . 3 18 . 3 12 . 3 - 18 . 0 1 . 0 - 1 . 4 0 . 9 - 1 . 3 0 . 9 - 1 . 3 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 2 to 5 Years Medium 8 . 0 0 2 5 10 21 . 1 15 . 3 18 . 3 18 . 2 12 . 3 - 18 . 0 1 . 2 - 1 . 7 0 . 8 - 1 . 2 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 > 5 Years Medium 12 . 0 0 2 5 10 26 . 8 20 . 9 19 . 6 20 . 3 18 . 0 1 . 5 1 . 2 1 . 1 1 . 1 • aCenters for Disease Control growth charts , developed by the National Center for Health Statistics in collaboration with the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion ( 2000 ) .
Ranges correspond to the average of the 50 th percentile weight for boys and girls at the ages indicated .
• bA single inhalation of VENTOLIN HFA in a 70 - kg adult without use of a valved holding chamber and mask delivers approximately 90 mcg , or 1 . 3 mcg / kg .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of VENTOLIN HFA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether older subjects respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE The expected signs and symptoms with overdosage of albuterol are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the signs and symptoms of beta - adrenergic stimulation ( e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats / min , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , muscle cramps , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , insomnia , hyperglycemia , hypokalemia , metabolic acidosis ) .
As with all inhaled sympathomimetic medicines , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with an overdose of VENTOLIN HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of VENTOLIN HFA together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of VENTOLIN HFA .
11 DESCRIPTION The active component of VENTOLIN HFA is albuterol sulfate , USP , the racemic form of albuterol and a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name α1 - [ ( tert - butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ′ - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Albuterol sulfate is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 576 . 7 , and the empirical formula is ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
VENTOLIN HFA is a blue plastic inhaler with a blue strapcap containing a pressurized metered - dose aerosol canister fitted with a counter .
Each canister contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol sulfate in propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) .
It contains no other excipients .
After priming , each actuation of the inhaler delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP in 75 mg of suspension from the valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate , USP from the mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base from the mouthpiece ) .
Prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
Although beta2 - adrenoceptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta1 - adrenoceptors are the predominant receptors in the heart , there are also beta2 - adrenoceptors in the human heart comprising 10 % to 50 % of the total beta - adrenoceptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established , but their presence raises the possibility that even selective beta2 - agonists may have cardiac effects .
Activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle leads to the activation of adenyl cyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP leads to the activation of protein kinase A , which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscles of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
Albuterol has been shown in most controlled clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic levels of albuterol are low after inhalation of recommended doses .
A trial conducted in 12 healthy male and female subjects using a higher dose ( 1 , 080 mcg of albuterol base ) showed that mean peak plasma concentrations of approximately 3 ng / mL occurred after dosing when albuterol was delivered using propellant HFA - 134 a .
The mean time to peak concentrations ( Tmax ) was delayed after administration of VENTOLIN HFA ( Tmax = 0 . 42 hours ) as compared with CFC - propelled albuterol inhaler ( Tmax = 0 . 17 hours ) .
Apparent terminal plasma half - life of albuterol is approximately 4 . 6 hours .
No further pharmacokinetic trials for VENTOLIN HFA were conducted in neonates , children , or elderly subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 . 0 mg / kg ( approximately 14 and 6 times the MRHDID for adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 700 and 800 times the MRHDID for adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 225 and 110 times the MRHDID for adults and children , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses of albuterol sulfate up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 340 times the MRHDID for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Preclinical : Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 . 0 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
Propellant HFA - 134 a : In animals and humans , propellant HFA - 134 a was found to be rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated , with an elimination half - life of 3 to 27 minutes in animals and 5 to 7 minutes in humans .
Time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) and mean residence time are both extremely short , leading to a transient appearance of HFA - 134 a in the blood with no evidence of accumulation .
Propellant HFA - 134 a is devoid of pharmacological activity except at very high doses in animals ( i . e . , 380 to 1 , 300 times the maximum human exposure based on comparisons of area under the plasma concentration versus time curve [ AUC ] values ) , primarily producing ataxia , tremors , dyspnea , or salivation .
These events are similar to effects produced by the structurally related CFCs , which have been used extensively in metered - dose inhalers .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Bronchospasm Associated with Asthma Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older : The efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo controlled trials in subjects aged 12 years and older with mild to moderate asthma .
These trials included a total of 610 subjects ( 323 males , 287 females ) .
In each trial , subjects received 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA , CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , or HFA - 134 a placebo 4 times daily for 12 weeks ’ duration .
Subjects taking the HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler also took VENTOLIN HFA for asthma symptom relief on an as - needed basis .
Some subjects who participated in these clinical trials were using concomitant inhaled steroid therapy .
Efficacy was assessed by serial forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( FEV1 ) .
In each of these trials , 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pretreatment value than placebo .
Results from the 2 clinical trials are described below .
In a 12 - week , randomized , double - blind trial , VENTOLIN HFA ( 101 subjects ) was compared with CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol ( 99 subjects ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 97 subjects ) in adolescent and adult subjects aged 12 to 76 years with mild to moderate asthma .
Serial FEV1 measurements [ shown below as percent change from test - day baseline at Day 1 ( n = 297 ) and at Week 12 ( n = 249 ) ] demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pretreatment value than placebo .
FEV1 as Percent Change from Predose in a Large , 12 - Week Clinical Trial Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Week 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In the responder population ( greater than or equal to 15 % increase in FEV1 within 30 minutes postdose ) treated with VENTOLIN HFA , the mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in FEV1 over the pretreatment value was 5 . 4 minutes , and the mean time to peak effect was 56 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in FEV1 over the pretreatment value was approximately 4 hours .
In some subjects , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
The second 12 - week randomized , double - blind trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of switching subjects from CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol to VENTOLIN HFA .
During the 3 - week run - in phase of the trial , all subjects received CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol .
During the double - blind treatment phase , VENTOLIN HFA ( 91 subjects ) was compared to CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol ( 100 subjects ) and an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler ( 95 subjects ) in adult and adolescent subjects with mild to moderate asthma .
Serial FEV1 measurements demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo .
The switching from CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler to VENTOLIN HFA did not reveal any clinically significant changes in the efficacy profile .
In the 2 adult trials , the efficacy results from VENTOLIN HFA were significantly greater than placebo and were clinically comparable to those achieved with CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , although small numerical differences in mean FEV1 response and other measures were observed .
Physicians should recognize that individual responses to beta - adrenergic agonists administered via different propellants may vary and that equivalent responses in individual patients should not be assumed .
Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years : The efficacy of VENTOLIN HFA was evaluated in one 2 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in 135 pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years with mild to moderate asthma .
In this trial , subjects received VENTOLIN HFA , CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol , or HFA - 134 a placebo .
Serial pulmonary function measurements demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA produced significantly greater improvement in pulmonary function than placebo and that there were no significant differences between the groups treated with VENTOLIN HFA and CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol .
In the responder population treated with VENTOLIN HFA , the mean time to onset of a 15 % increase in peak expiratory flow rate ( PEFR ) over the pretreatment value was 7 . 8 minutes , and the mean time to peak effect was approximately 90 minutes .
The mean duration of effect as measured by a 15 % increase in PEFR over the pretreatment value was greater than 3 hours .
In some subjects , duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm One controlled clinical trial in adult subjects with asthma ( N = 24 ) demonstrated that 2 inhalations of VENTOLIN HFA taken approximately 30 minutes prior to exercise significantly prevented exercise - induced bronchospasm ( as measured by maximum percentage fall in FEV1 following exercise ) compared with an HFA - 134 a placebo inhaler .
In addition , VENTOLIN HFA was shown to be clinically comparable to a CFC 11 / 12 - propelled albuterol inhaler for this indication .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VENTOLIN HFA Inhalation Aerosol is supplied in the following boxes of 1 as a pressurized aluminum canister fitted with a counter and supplied with a blue plastic actuator with a blue strapcap : 35356 - 166 - 08 35356 - 166 - 02 35356 - 166 - 01 The blue actuator supplied with VENTOLIN HFA should not be used with any other product canisters , and actuators from other products should not be used with a VENTOLIN HFA canister .
VENTOLIN HFA has a counter attached to the canister .
The counter starts at 204 or 64 and counts down each time a spray is released .
The correct amount of medication in each actuation cannot be assured after the counter reads 000 , even though the canister is not completely empty and will continue to operate .
The inhaler should be discarded when the counter reads 000 or 12 months after removal from the moisture - protective foil pouch , whichever comes first .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Contents Under Pressure : Do not puncture .
Do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw canister into fire or incinerator .
Store at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) ; excursions permitted from 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down .
For best results , the inhaler should be at room temperature before use .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE EACH SPRAY .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Frequency of Use : Inform patients that the action of VENTOLIN HFA should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
Do not use VENTOLIN HFA more frequently than recommended .
Instruct patients not to increase the dose or frequency of doses of VENTOLIN HFA without consulting the physician .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately if treatment with VENTOLIN HFA becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , symptoms become worse , and / or they need to use the product more frequently than usual .
Priming : Instruct patients to prime VENTOLIN HFA before using for the first time , when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks , or when the inhaler has been dropped .
To prime VENTOLIN HFA , release 4 sprays into the air away from the face , shaking well before each spray .
Cleaning : To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage , instruct patients to wash the actuator with warm water and let it air - dry completely at least once a week .
Inform patients that detailed cleaning instructions are included in the Patient Information leaflet .
Paradoxical Bronchospasm : Inform patients that VENTOLIN HFA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm .
Instruct them to discontinue VENTOLIN HFA if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs .
Concomitant Drug Use : Advise patients that while they are using VENTOLIN HFA , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by the physician .
Common Adverse Effects : Common adverse effects of treatment with inhaled albuterol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , and nervousness .
Pregnancy : Advise patients who are pregnant or nursing to contact their physicians about the use of VENTOLIN HFA .
VENTOLIN is a registered trademark of the GSK group of companies .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of the GSK group of companies .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse the GSK group of companies or its products .
GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2014 , the GSK group of companies .
All rights reserved .
VNT : 9 PI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
