Warnings Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Dosage Form Gel DIRECTIONS • Ensure that the affected area is clean and dry .
• Apply a thin , even layer twice daily .
• Allow to dry .
Wait 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION Protect product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
USES BIOCORNEUM ® can reduce the appearance of scars and is ideal for use on any intact skin surface , including skin that flexes ( such as joints ) and areas exposed to sun ( such as the face and hands ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Silicon Dioxide PURPOSE BIOCORNEUM can reduce the appearance of scars and is ideal for use on any intact skin surface , including skin that flexes ( such as joints ) and areas exposed to sun ( such as the face and hands ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Keep out of reach of children .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SECTION Ensure that the affected area is clean and dry .
Apply a thin , even layer twice daily .
Allow to dry .
Wait 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
PRINCIPLE DISPLAY SECTION Biocorneum Advanced Scar Treatment Broad Spectrum SPF 30 For Professional Use Only NET WT 3 . 35 fl oz ( 95 g ) BIOCORNEUM by Sientra is the only advanced scar treatment with Silishield patented crosslinked silicone plus SPF 30 protection .
What is Silishield ?
Silishield advances the benefits of traditional silicone sheeting through the comfort and ease of a gel .
Patented crosslinked silicone creates an invisible shield that feels like a second skin and helps reduce the appearance of scars .
It can reduce redness and discoloration , soften and flatten new and older hypertrophic and keloid scars resulting from surgical procedures , injuries and burns .
The SPF is designed to be effective while also maintaining Silishield ’ s silky - smooth feel and clear appearance .
Manufactured in the USA for Sientra , Inc . , Santa Barbara , CA 93117 2021 Sientra , Inc .
sientra . com BIOCORNEUM and Silishield are registered trademarks of Sientra , Inc .
May be covered by one or more of the following U . S . patents : 5 , 741 , 509 ; 8 , 021 , 683 ; 8 , 802 , 133 ; 9 , 339 , 546 ; 9 , 795 , 706 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
