1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % is indicated for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions ( up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in area ) due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) and Streptococcus pyogenes ( S . pyogenes ) .
Mupirocin cream is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial indicated for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions ( up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in area ) due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For Topical Use Only .
• Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream , with a cotton swab or gauze pad , to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days .
• Cover the treated area with gauze dressing if desired .
• Re - evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days .
• Mupirocin cream is not for intranasal , ophthalmic , or other mucosal use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Do not apply mupirocin cream concurrently with any other lotions , creams , or ointments [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• For Topical Use Only .
( 2 ) • Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream , with a cotton swab or gauze pad , to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days .
( 2 ) • Re - evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days .
( 2 ) • Not for intranasal , ophthalmic , or other mucosal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % m is a white cream that contains 20 mg ( 2 % w / w ) of mupirocin per gram in an oil - and water - based emulsion , supplied in 15 - gram and 30 - gram tubes .
Cream : 20 mg ( 2 % w / w ) of mupirocin per gram ( equivalent to 21 . 5 mg ( 2 . 15 % w / w ) of mupirocin calcium , USP ) in 15 - gram and 30 - gram tubes .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mupirocin cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin cream .
Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin cream .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe Allergic Reactions : Anaphylaxis , urticaria , angioedema , and generalized rash have been reported in patients treated with formulations of mupirocin , including mupirocin cream .
( 5 . 1 ) • Eye Irritation : Avoid contact with eyes .
( 5 . 2 ) • Local Irritation : Discontinue in the event of sensitization or severe local irritation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) : If diarrhea occurs , evaluate patients for CDAD .
( 5 . 4 ) • Potential for Microbial Overgrowth : Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms , including fungi .
( 5 . 5 ) • Risk Associated with Mucosal Use : Mupirocin cream is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
A separate formulation , mupirocin nasal ointment , is available for intranasal use .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Severe Allergic Reactions Systemic allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , angioedema , and generalized rash , have been reported in patients treated with formulations of mupirocin , including mupirocin cream [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Eye Irritation Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse well with water .
5 . 3 Local Irritation In the event of a sensitization or severe local irritation from mupirocin cream , usage should be discontinued , and appropriate alternative therapy for the infection instituted .
5 . 4 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 5 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth As with other antibacterial products , prolonged use of mupirocin cream may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms , including fungi [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Risk Associated with Mucosal Use Mupirocin cream is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
A separate formulation , mupirocin nasal ointment , is available for intranasal use .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Severe Allergic Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Eye Irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Local Irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • The most frequent adverse reactions ( at least 1 % ) were headache , rash , and nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Encube Ethicals Private Limited at 1 - 833 - 285 - 4151 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In 2 randomized , double - blind , double - dummy trials , 339 subjects were treated with topical mupirocin cream plus oral placebo .
Adverse reactions occurred in 28 ( 8 . 3 % ) subjects .
The following adverse reactions were reported by at least 1 % of subjects in connection with the use of mupirocin cream in clinical trials : headache ( 1 . 7 % ) , rash ( 1 . 1 % ) , and nausea ( 1 . 1 % ) .
Other adverse reactions which occurred in less than 1 % of subjects were : abdominal pain , burning at application site , cellulitis , dermatitis , dizziness , pruritus , secondary wound infection , and ulcerative stomatitis .
In a supportive trial in the treatment of secondarily infected eczema , 82 subjects were treated with mupirocin cream .
The incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : nausea ( 4 . 9 % ) , headache and burning at application site ( 3 . 6 % each ) , pruritus ( 2 . 4 % ) , and 1 report each of abdominal pain , bleeding secondary to eczema , pain secondary to eczema , hives , dry skin , and rash .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , the following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of mupirocin cream .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These reactions have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal relationship to mupirocin cream .
Immune System Disorders Systemic allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , angioedema , and generalized rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are insufficient human data to establish whether there is a drug - associated risk with mupirocin cream in pregnant women .
Systemic absorption of mupirocin through intact human skin is minimal following topical administration of mupirocin cream [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No developmental toxicity was observed in rats or rabbits treated with mupirocin subcutaneously during organogenesis at doses of 160 or 40 mg per kg per day , respectively ( 22 and 11 times the human topical dose based on calculations of dose divided by the entire body surface area ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
The estimated background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data : Developmental toxicity studies have been performed with mupirocin administered subcutaneously to rats and rabbits at doses up to 160 mg per kg per day during organogenesis .
This dose is 22 and 43 times , respectively , the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) based on calculations of dose divided by the entire body surface area .
Maternal toxicity was observed ( body weight loss / decreased body weight gain and reduced feeding ) in both species with no evidence of developmental toxicity in rats .
In rabbits , excessive maternal toxicity at the high dose precluded the evaluation of fetal outcomes .
There was no developmental toxicity in rabbits at 40 mg per kg per day , 11 times the human topical dose based on calculations of dose divided by the entire body surface area .
Mupirocin administered subcutaneously to rats in a pre - and postnatal development study ( dosed during late gestation through lactation ) was associated with reduced offspring viability in the early postnatal period at a dose of 106 . 7 mg per kg , in the presence of injection site irritation and / or subcutaneous hemorrhaging .
This dose is 14 times the human topical dose based on calculations of dose divided by the entire body surface area .
The no - observed adverse effect level in this study was 44 . 2 mg per kg per day , which is 6 times the human topical dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether mupirocin is present in human milk , has effects on the breastfed child , or has effects on milk production .
However , breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the child to the drug due to the minimal systemic absorption of mupirocin in humans following topical administration of mupirocin cream [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for mupirocin cream and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from mupirocin cream or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize oral exposure of the drug to children , a breast and / or nipple being treated with mupirocin cream should be thoroughly washed prior to breastfeeding .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of mupirocin cream have been established in the age - groups of 3 months to 16 years .
Use of mupirocin cream in these age - groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled trials of mupirocin cream in adults with additional data from 93 pediatric subjects studied as part of the pivotal trials in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In 2 adequate and well - controlled trials , 30 subjects older than 65 years were treated with mupirocin cream .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of mupirocin cream was observed in this patient population when compared with that observed in younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % contains the dihydrate crystalline calcium hemi - salt of the RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial , mupirocin .
Chemically , it is ( α E , 2 S , 3 R , 4 R , 5 S ) - 5 - [ ( 2 S , 3 S , 4 S , 5 S ) - 2 , 3 - epoxy - 5 - hydroxy - 4 - methylhexyl ] tetrahydro - 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - β - methyl - 2 H - pyran - 2 - crotonic acid , ester with 9 - hydroxynonanoic acid , calcium salt ( 2 : 1 ) , dihydrate .
The molecular formula of mupirocin calcium , USP is ( C 26 H 43 O 9 ) 2 Ca • 2 H 2 O , and the molecular weight is 1075 . 3 g / mol .
The molecular weight of mupirocin free acid is 500 . 6 g / mol .
The structural formula of mupirocin calcium , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each gram of mupirocin cream contains 20 mg ( 2 % w / w ) of mupirocin equivalent to 21 . 5 mg ( 2 . 15 % w / w ) of mupirocin calcium .
The inactive ingredients are benzyl alcohol , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , mono and di - glycerides , mineral oil , phenoxyethanol , purified water and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mupirocin is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Systemic absorption of mupirocin through intact human skin is minimal .
The systemic absorption of mupirocin was studied following application of mupirocin cream 3 times daily for 5 days to various skin lesions greater than 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in area in 16 adults ( aged 29 to 60 years ) and 10 children ( aged 3 to 12 years ) .
Some systemic absorption was observed as evidenced by the detection of the metabolite , monic acid , in urine .
Data from this trial indicated more frequent occurrence of percutaneous absorption in children ( 90 % of subjects ) compared with adults ( 44 % of subjects ) ; however , the observed urinary concentrations in children ( 0 . 07 to 1 . 3 mcg per mL [ 1 pediatric subject had no detectable level ] ) are within the observed range ( 0 . 08 to 10 . 03 mcg per mL [ 9 adults had no detectable level ] ) in the adult population .
In general , the degree of percutaneous absorption following multiple dosing appears to be minimal in adults and children .
The effect of the concurrent application of mupirocin cream with other topical products has not been studied [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Elimination In a trial conducted in 7 healthy adult male subjects , the elimination half - life after intravenous administration of mupirocin was 20 to 40 minutes for mupirocin and 30 to 80 minutes for monic acid .
Metabolism : Following intravenous or oral administration , mupirocin is rapidly metabolized .
The principal metabolite , monic acid , demonstrates no antibacterial activity .
Excretion : Monic acid is predominantly eliminated by renal excretion .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mupirocin is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial produced by fermentation using the organism Pseudomonas fluorescens .
Mechanism of Action Mupirocin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by reversibly and specifically binding to bacterial isoleucyl - transfer RNA ( tRNA ) synthetase .
Mupirocin is bactericidal at concentrations achieved by topical administration .
Mupirocin is highly protein bound ( greater than 97 % ) and the effect of wound secretions on the minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of mupirocin has not been determined .
Resistance When mupirocin resistance occurs , it results from the production of a modified isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase , or the acquisition of , by genetic transfer , a plasmid mediating a new isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase .
High - level plasmid - mediated resistance ( MIC ≥ 512 mcg / mL ) has been reported in increasing numbers of isolates of S . aureus and with higher frequency in coagulase - negative staphylococci .
Mupirocin resistance occurs with greater frequency in methicillin - resistant than methicillin - susceptible staphylococci .
Cross Resistance Due to its mode of action , mupirocin does not demonstrate cross resistance with other classes of antimicrobial agents .
Antimicrobial Activity Mupirocin has been shown to be active against susceptible isolates of S . aureus and S . pyogenes , both in vitro and in clinical trials [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Mupirocin is active against most isolates of Staphylococcus epidermidis .
Susceptibility Test Methods High - level mupirocin resistance ( ≥ 512 mcg / mL ) may be determined using standard disk diffusion or broth microdilution tests .
1 , 2 Because of the occurrence of mupirocin resistance in methicillin - resistant S . aureus ( MRSA ) , it is appropriate to test MRSA populations for mupirocin susceptibility prior to the use of mupirocin using a standardized method .
3 , 4 , 5 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential of mupirocin calcium have not been conducted .
Results of the following studies performed with mupirocin calcium or mupirocin sodium in vitro and in vivo did not indicate a potential for genotoxicity : rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis , sediment analysis for DNA strand breaks , Salmonella reversion test ( Ames ) , Escherichia coli mutation assay , metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and bone marrow micronuclei assay in mice .
In a fertility / reproductive performance study ( with dosing through lactation ) , mupirocin administered subcutaneously to male and female rats at doses up to 100 mg per kg per day which is 14 times the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) based on calculations of dose divided by the entire body surface area , did not result in impaired fertility or impaired reproductive performance attributable to mupirocin .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of topical mupirocin cream for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions ( e . g . , lacerations , sutured wounds , and abrasions not more than 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in total area ) was compared with that of oral cephalexin in 2 randomized , double - blind , double - dummy clinical trials .
Clinical efficacy rates at follow - up in the per - protocol populations ( adults and pediatric subjects included ) were 96 . 1 % for mupirocin cream ( n = 231 ) and 93 . 1 % for oral cephalexin ( n = 219 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates at follow - up in the per - protocol populations were 100 % for both mupirocin cream and oral cephalexin .
Pediatrics There were 93 pediatric subjects aged 2 weeks to 16 years enrolled per protocol in the secondarily infected skin lesion trials , although only 3 were younger than 2 years of age in the population treated with mupirocin cream .
Subjects were randomized to either 10 days of topical mupirocin cream 3 times daily or 10 days of oral cephalexin ( 250 mg 4 times daily for subjects greater than 40 kg or 25 mg per kg per day oral suspension in 4 divided doses for subjects less than or equal to 40 kg ) .
Clinical efficacy at follow - up ( 7 to 12 days post - therapy ) in the per - protocol populations was 97 . 7 % ( 43 of 44 ) for mupirocin cream and 93 . 9 % ( 46 of 49 ) for cephalexin .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute ( CLSI ) .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing ; Twenty - sixth Informational Supplement .
CLSI document M100 - S26 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Rd . , Suite 2500 , Wayne , PA 19087 , USA , 2016 .
2 .
Patel J , Gorwitz RJ , et al .
Mupirocin Resistance .
Clinical Infectious Diseases .
2009 ; 49 ( 6 ) : 935 - 41 .
3 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute ( CLSI ) .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically ; Approved Standard – Tenth Edition .
CLSI document M07 - A10 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA , 2015 .
4 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute ( CLSI ) .
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Diffusion Susceptibility Tests ; Approved Standard – Twelfth Edition .
CLSI document M02 - A12 .
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute , 950 West Valley Road , Suite 2500 , Wayne , Pennsylvania 19087 , USA , 2015 .
5 .
Finlay JE , Miller LA , Poupard JA .
Interpretive criteria for testing susceptibility of staphylococci to mupirocin .
Antimicrob Agents Chemother .
1997 ; 41 ( 5 ) : 1137 - 1139 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % is a white cream that contains 20 mg ( 2 % w / w ) of mupirocin per gram in an oil - and water - based emulsion .
Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % is supplied in 15 - gram and 30 - gram tubes .
NDC 21922 - 029 - 04 ( 15 - gram tube ) NDC 21922 - 029 - 05 ( 30 - gram tube ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise the patient to administer mupirocin cream as follows : Use mupirocin cream only as directed by the healthcare provider .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact of mupirocin cream with the eyes .
If mupirocin cream gets in the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
• Do not use mupirocin cream in the nose .
• Wash your hands before and after applying mupirocin cream .
• Use a gauze pad or cotton swab to apply a small amount of mupirocin cream to the affected area .
The treated area may be covered by gauze dressing if desired .
• Report to the healthcare provider any signs of local adverse reactions .
Mupirocin cream should be stopped and the healthcare provider contacted if irritation , severe itching , or rash occurs .
• Report to the healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room if severe allergic reactions , such as swelling of the lips , face , or tongue , or wheezing occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• If no improvement is seen in 3 to 5 days , contact the healthcare provider .
Manufactured by : Encube Ethicals Private Limited Plot No .
C - 1 , Madkaim Industrial Estate , Madkaim , Post : Mardol , Ponda , Goa - 403 404 , India .
Distributed by : Encube Ethicals , Inc .
200 Meredith Avenue , Suite 101 A Durham , NC 27713 USA Rev . 08 / 2021 PHARMACIST - DETACH HERE AND GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO PATIENT --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Patient Information PATIENT INFORMATION MUPIROCIN ( mue pir ' oh sin ) CREAM , for topical use What is mupirocin cream ?
Mupirocin cream is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical use ) to treat certain skin infections caused by bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes .
It is not known if mupirocin cream is safe and effective in children under 3 months of age .
Who should not use mupirocin cream ?
Do not use mupirocin cream if : • you are allergic to mupirocin or any of the ingredients in mupirocin cream .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in mupirocin cream .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using mupirocin cream ?
Before using mupirocin cream , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if mupirocin cream will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if mupirocin passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you can use mupirocin cream while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Do not mix mupirocin cream with other lotions , creams , or ointments .
How should I use mupirocin cream ?
• Mupirocin cream is for use on the skin ( topical ) .
Do not get mupirocin cream in your eyes , nose , mouth , or vagina ( mucosal surfaces ) .
• Use mupirocin cream exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream , with a cotton swab or gauze pad , to the affected area 3 times each day .
Apply mupirocin cream for 10 days .
• It is important that you take the full course of mupirocin cream .
Do not stop early because your symptoms may disappear before the infection is fully cleared .
• Wash your hands before and after applying mupirocin cream .
• After applying mupirocin cream , you may cover the treated area with a clean gauze pad , unless your healthcare provider has told you to leave it uncovered .
• Talk to your healthcare provider if your skin does not improve after 3 to 5 days of treatment with mupirocin cream .
• If you are breastfeeding and use mupirocin cream on your breast or nipple , wash the area well before breastfeeding your child .
What are the possible side effects of mupirocin cream ?
Mupirocin cream may cause serious side effects , including : • severe allergic reactions .
Stop using mupirocin cream and call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • hives • trouble breathing or wheezing • swelling of your face , lips , mouth , or tongue • dizziness , fast heartbeat , or pounding in your chest • a rash over your whole body • eye irritation .
Do not get mupirocin cream in your eyes .
If mupirocin cream gets in your eyes , rinse your eyes well with water .
• irritation in the area mupirocin cream is used .
A rash may occur after using mupirocin cream and can be severe .
Stop using mupirocin cream and call your healthcare provider if you develop an irritation , severe itching , or a rash while using mupirocin cream .
• a type of diarrhea called clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) .
CDAD may happen in people who use or have used medicine to treat bacterial infections .
The severity of CDAD can range from mild diarrhea to severe diarrhea that may cause death ( fatal colitis ) .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest emergency room right away if you have diarrhea while using or after you stop using mupirocin cream .
The most common side effects of mupirocin cream include : • headache • rash • nausea These are not all the possible side effects of mupirocin cream .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store mupirocin cream ?
• Store mupirocin cream at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze mupirocin cream .
• Keep mupirocin cream and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of mupirocin cream .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use mupirocin cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give mupirocin cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about mupirocin cream that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in mupirocin cream ?
Active Ingredient : mupirocin calcium Inactive Ingredients : benzyl alcohol , polyoxyl 20 cetostearyl ether , mono - and di - glycerides , mineral oil , phenoxyethanol , purified water and xanthan gum .
Manufactured by : Encube Ethicals Private Limited Plot No .
C - 1 , Madkaim Industrial Estate , Madkaim , Post : Mardol , Ponda , Goa - 403 404 , India .
Distributed by : Encube Ethicals , Inc .
200 Meredith Avenue , Suite 101 A Durham , NC 27713 USA This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : August 2021 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Tube Label NDC 21922 - 029 - 04 ( Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % - Tube - 15 g ) NDC 21922 - 029 - 04 Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % For topical use 15 g ( Net Wt . )
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 21922 - 029 - 04 ( Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % - Tube - 15 g ) NDC 21922 - 029 - 04 Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % For topical use 15 g ( Net Wt . )
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Tube Label NDC 21922 - 029 - 05 ( Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % - Tube - 30 g ) NDC 21922 - 029 - 05 Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % For topical use 30 g ( Net Wt . )
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 21922 - 029 - 05 ( Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % - Tube - 30 g ) NDC 21922 - 029 - 05 Mupirocin Cream USP , 2 % For topical use 30 g ( Net Wt . )
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
