For Topical Use Only Description : MONISTAT - DERM ( miconazole nitrate 2 % ) Cream contains miconazole nitrate * 2 % , formulated into a water - miscible base consisting of pegoxol 7 stearate , peglicol 5 oleate , mineral oil , benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole and purified water .
* Chemical name : 1 - [ 2 , 4 - dicholoro - B - { ( 2 , 5 - dichlorobenzyl ) oxy } phenethyl ] imidazole mononitrate .
Actions : Miconazole nitrate is a synthetic antifungal agent which inhibits the growth of the common dermatophytes , Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum , the yeast - like fungus , Candida albicans , and the organism responsible for tinea versicolor ( Malassezia furfur ) .
Indications : For topical application in the treatment of tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum , in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis ( moniliasis ) , and in the treatment of tinea versicolor .
Contraindications : MONISTAT - DERM ( miconazole nitrate 2 % ) Cream has no known contraindications .
Precautions : If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Avoid introduction of MONISTAT - DERM Cream into the eyes .
Adverse Reactions : There have been isolated reports of irritation , burning , maceration , and allergic contact dermatitis associated with the application of MONISTAT - DERM .
Dosage and Administration : Sufficient MONISTAT - DERM Cream should be applied to cover affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) in patients with tinea pedis , tinea cruris , tinea corporis , and cutaneous candidiasis , and once daily in patients with tinea versicolor .
If MONISTAT - DERM Cream is used in intertriginous areas , it should be applied sparingly and smoothed in well to avoid maceration effects .
Early relief of symptoms ( 2 to 3 days ) is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , Candida infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after a month of treatment , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
How Supplied : MONISTAT - DERM ( miconazole nitrate 2 % ) Cream containing miconazole nitrate at 2 % strength is supplied in 15 g , 1 oz .
and 3 oz .
tubes .
Ortho Dermatological Division of Ortho - McNeil Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Skillman , New Jersey 08558 © OMP 2001 Printed in U . S . A . Revised February 2001 631 - 10 - 471 - 3
