Dosage and Administration , ( 2 . 2 ) 02 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TAKHZYRO ® is indicated for prophylaxis to prevent attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) in adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older .
TAKHZYRO is a plasma kallikrein inhibitor ( monoclonal antibody ) indicated for prophylaxis to prevent attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) in adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only • Administer 300 mg every 2 weeks .
Dosing every 4 weeks may be considered in some patients ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients may self - administer .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dosage is 300 mg administered subcutaneously every 2 weeks .
A dosing interval of 300 mg every 4 weeks is also effective and may be considered if the patient is well - controlled ( e . g . , attack free ) for more than 6 months .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Instructions TAKHZYRO is administered subcutaneously only .
TAKHZYRO is intended for self - administration or administration by a caregiver .
The patient or caregiver should be trained by a healthcare professional .
TAKHZYRO is provided as a ready - to - use solution that does not require additional reconstitution or dilution for administration .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
TAKHZYRO is a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Instructions for single - dose prefilled syringe Do not use the prefilled syringe if the solution appears discolored or contains visible particles .
Avoid vigorous agitation of the prefilled syringe .
Take the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe out of the refrigerator 15 minutes before injecting to allow it to equilibrate to room temperature .
Using aseptic technique , inject TAKHZYRO subcutaneously into the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm .
Patients should inject the complete dose as prescribed by their physician .
Discard any unused portion of drug remaining in the prefilled syringe .
For detailed instructions on the preparation and administration of TAKHZYRO see single - dose prefilled syringe Instructions for Use .
Instructions for single - dose vial Do not use the vial if the solution appears discolored or contains visible particles .
Avoid vigorous agitation of the vial .
Take the TAKHZYRO vial out of the refrigerator 15 minutes before injecting to allow it to equilibrate to room temperature .
Using aseptic technique , withdraw the prescribed dose of TAKHZYRO from the vial using an 18 - gauge needle .
Change the needle on the syringe to a 27 - gauge , ½ - inch needle or other needle suitable for subcutaneous injection .
Inject TAKHZYRO subcutaneously into the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm .
Patients should inject the complete dose as prescribed by their physician .
In clinical studies , the majority of patients self - administered TAKHZYRO over 10 to 60 seconds .
TAKHZYRO should be administered within 2 hours of preparing the dosing syringe .
After the dosing syringe is prepared , it can be refrigerated at 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) and must be used within 8 hours .
Discard any unused portions of drug remaining in the vial and dosing syringe .
For detailed instructions on the preparation and administration of TAKHZYRO see single - dose vial Instructions for Use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS TAKHZYRO is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution available in the following presentations .
• Injection : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe • Injection : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial • Injection : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) • Injection : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions have been observed .
In case of a severe hypersensitivity reaction , discontinue TAKHZYRO administration and institute appropriate treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions have been observed .
In case of a severe hypersensitivity reaction , discontinue TAKHZYRO administration and institute appropriate treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are injection site reactions , upper respiratory infections , headache , rash , myalgia , dizziness , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - TAKEDA - 7 ( 1 - 877 - 825 - 3327 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of TAKHZYRO is primarily based on a 26 - week , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group and placebo - controlled study ( Trial 1 ) in 125 patients with Type I or II HAE .
Eligible patients were also able to participate in an open - label extension study ( Trial 2 ) up to 130 weeks .
In Trial 1 , a total of 84 patients with HAE aged 12 years and older received at least one dose of TAKHZYRO .
Overall , 70 % of patients were female and 90 % of patients were Caucasian with a mean age of 41 years .
The proportion of patients who discontinued study drug prematurely due to adverse events was 1 . 2 % for TAKHZYRO - treated patients and 4 . 9 % for placebo - treated patients .
No deaths occurred in the trial .
The safety profile of TAKHZYRO was generally similar across all subgroups of patients , including analysis by age , sex , and geographic region .
Table 1 shows adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 10 % of patients in any TAKHZYRO treatment group that also occurred at a higher rate than in the placebo treatment group in Trial 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions Observed in ≥ 10 % of Patients Treated with TAKHZYRO in Trial 1 Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 41 ) TAKHZYRO 150 mg q4wks ( N = 28 ) 300 mg q4wks ( N = 29 ) 300 mg q2wks ( N = 27 ) Total ( N = 84 ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) n ( % ) N = number of patients ; n = number of patients experiencing the event ; q2wks = every 2 weeks ; q4wks = every 4 weeks Injection site reactions [ 1 ] 14 ( 34 ) 16 ( 57 ) 13 ( 45 ) 15 ( 56 ) 44 ( 52 ) Upper respiratory infection [ 2 ] 13 ( 32 ) 3 ( 11 ) 9 ( 31 ) 12 ( 44 ) 24 ( 29 ) Headache [ 3 ] 9 ( 22 ) 3 ( 11 ) 6 ( 21 ) 9 ( 33 ) 18 ( 21 ) Rash [ 4 ] 2 ( 5 ) 2 ( 7 ) 3 ( 10 ) 1 ( 4 ) 6 ( 7 ) Myalgia 0 1 ( 4 ) 0 3 ( 11 ) 4 ( 5 ) Dizziness 0 1 ( 4 ) 3 ( 10 ) 1 ( 4 ) 5 ( 6 ) Diarrhea 2 ( 5 ) 3 ( 11 ) 0 1 ( 4 ) 4 ( 5 ) [ 1 ] Injection site reactions include : pain , erythema , bruising , hematoma , hemorrhage , pruritus , swelling , induration , paraesthesia , reaction , warmth , edema and rash .
[ 2 ] Includes upper respiratory infection , viral upper respiratory infection [ 3 ] Includes headache , tension headache , sinus headache [ 4 ] Includes rash , rash maculopapular , rash erythematous Injection site reactions primarily consisted mainly of pain , erythema , and bruising at the injection site .
There was no meaningful difference in injection site reactions with self - administration .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions that occurred at a higher incidence in TAKHZYRO - treated patients compared to placebo include hypersensitivity ( 1 % vs 0 % ) , increased aspartate transaminase ( 2 % vs 0 % ) , and increased alanine transaminase ( 2 % vs 0 % ) .
Safety data from the ongoing open - label extension study , consisting of 109 rollover patients from Trial 1 and 103 non - rollover HAE patients , is consistent with controlled safety data from Trial 1 .
Laboratory Abnormalities Transaminase elevations During the placebo - controlled treatment period in Trial 1 , the number of TAKHZYRO - treated patients with maximum transaminase ( ALT or AST ) levels > 8 , > 5 , or > 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) was 1 ( 1 . 2 % ) , 0 ( 0 % ) , or 3 ( 3 . 6 % ) respectively , compared to 0 in the placebo - treated patients .
These transaminase elevations were asymptomatic and transient .
No patients had elevated total bilirubin > 2 × ULN .
One TAKHZYRO - treated patient permanently discontinued treatment due to elevated transaminases ( 4 . 1 × ULN AST ) .
None of the patients were reported to have serious adverse reactions of elevated transaminases .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to lanadelumab - flyo in the study described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In Trial 1 , 10 ( 12 % ) lanadelumab - flyo - treated and 2 ( 5 % ) placebo - treated patients had at least 1 anti - drug antibody ( ADA ) - positive sample during the treatment period ; antibody titers were low ( range : 20 to 1280 ) .
The ADA response observed was transient in 2 / 10 lanadelumab - flyo and 1 / 2 placebo - treated patients .
Pre - existing low titer antibodies were observed in 3 lanadelumab - flyo - treated patients and 1 placebo - treated patient with ADAs .
Two patients receiving 150 mg q4wks had low titer antibodies classified as neutralizing .
The development of ADA including neutralizing antibodies against lanadelumab - flyo did not appear to adversely affect pharmacokinetics ( PK ) , pharmacodynamics ( PD ) , safety or clinical response .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dedicated drug interaction studies have been conducted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dedicated drug interaction studies have been conducted .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Coagulation tests TAKHZYRO can increase activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) due to an interaction of TAKHZYRO with the aPTT assay .
The reagents used in the aPTT laboratory test initiate intrinsic coagulation through the activation of plasma kallikrein in the contact system .
Inhibition of plasma kallikrein by TAKHZYRO can increase aPTT in this assay .
In Trial 1 , prolongation of aPTT ( > 1 × ULN ) was observed at one or more time points in 3 , 9 , and 11 patients treated with TAKHZYRO 150 mg q4 wks , 300 mg q4 wks , and 300 mg q2 wks , respectively , compared to 5 placebo - treated patients .
Only one patient in the 300 mg q2 wks treatment group experienced transient aPTT prolongation ≥ 1 . 5 × ULN which was confounded by ongoing heparin therapy .
None of the increases in aPTT in patients treated with TAKHZYRO were associated with abnormal bleeding adverse events .
There were no differences in INR values between treatment groups .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on TAKHZYRO use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks .
Monoclonal antibodies such as lanadelumab - flyo are transported across the placenta during the third trimester of pregnancy ; therefore , potential effects on a fetus are likely to be greater during the third trimester of pregnancy .
An enhanced pre - and postnatal development ( ePPND ) study conducted in pregnant monkeys at doses resulting in exposures of up to 33 times the exposure achieved ( on an AUC basis ) at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) revealed no evidence of harm to the developing fetus .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In the ePPND study , pregnant cynomolgus monkeys were administered lanadelumab - flyo once weekly at subcutaneous doses resulting in up to 33 times the exposure at the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal subcutaneous doses up to 50 mg / kg / week ) from gestation day 20 , at the beginning of organogenesis , through to parturition .
There were no lanadelumab - flyo - related effects on maintenance of pregnancy or parturition .
Maternal lanadelumab - flyo treatment had no effects on embryo - fetal development , survival , growth , or postnatal development of offspring through 3 months of age .
Lanadelumab - flyo crossed the placenta in monkeys .
Offspring were exposed to lanadelumab - flyo at approximately 50 % of the maternal plasma concentration out to postnatal day 21 ( PND 21 ) .
Lanadelumab - flyo concentrations were approximately equivalent in maternal and offspring plasma at PND 90 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of lanadelumab - flyo in human milk , its effects on the breastfed infant , or its effects on milk production .
Lanadelumab - flyo was detected in the milk of lactating cynomolgus monkeys at approximately 0 . 2 % of the maternal plasma concentration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for TAKHZYRO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from TAKHZYRO or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data Available pharmacokinetic data in cynomolgus monkeys have shown excretion of lanadelumab - flyo in milk at approximately 0 . 2 % of the maternal plasma level .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TAKHZYRO for prophylaxis to prevent attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) have been established in pediatric patients 12 years and older .
The use of TAKHZYRO for this indication was evaluated in a subgroup of patients ( N = 10 ) aged 12 to < 18 years in Trial 1 .
Results of the subgroup analysis by age were consistent with overall study results [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
An additional 13 pediatric patients aged 12 to < 18 years were enrolled in the open - label extension study .
The safety and effectiveness of TAKHZYRO in pediatric patients < 12 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TAKHZYRO were evaluated in a subgroup of patients ( N = 5 ) aged ≥ 65 years in Trial 1 .
Results of the subgroup analysis by age were consistent with overall study results [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no clinical experience with overdosage of TAKHZYRO .
11 DESCRIPTION Lanadelumab - flyo , a plasma kallikrein inhibitor , is a non - plasma derived , recombinant , fully human , monoclonal antibody ( IgG1 / κ - light chain ) produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Based on the amino acid sequence , the molecular weight of the non - glycosylated lanadelumab - flyo is 146 kDa .
The calculated molecular mass of the fully reduced light chain is 23 kDa .
The calculated molecular mass of the fully reduced and non - glycosylated heavy chain is 49 kDa .
TAKHZYRO ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution for subcutaneous use .
Each mL of ready - to - use TAKHZYRO solution contains 150 mg of lanadelumab - flyo , citric acid monohydrate ( 4 . 1 mg ) , L - histidine ( 7 . 8 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 1 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 5 . 3 mg ) , sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate ( 5 . 3 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
The solution has a pH of approximately 6 . 0 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lanadelumab - flyo is a fully human monoclonal antibody ( IgG1 / κ - light chain ) that binds plasma kallikrein and inhibits its proteolytic activity .
Plasma kallikrein is a protease that cleaves high - molecular - weight - kininogen ( HMWK ) to generate cleaved HMWK ( cHMWK ) and bradykinin , a potent vasodilator that increases vascular permeability resulting in swelling and pain associated with HAE .
In patients with HAE due to C1 - inhibitor ( C1 - INH ) deficiency or dysfunction , normal regulation of plasma kallikrein activity is not present , which leads to uncontrolled increases in plasma kallikrein activity and results in angioedema attacks .
Lanadelumab - flyo decreases plasma kallikrein activity to control excess bradykinin generation in patients with HAE .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Concentration - dependent inhibition of plasma kallikrein , measured as reduction of cHMWK levels , was demonstrated after subcutaneous administration of TAKHZYRO 150 mg q4wks , 300 mg q4wks or 300 mg q2wks in patients with HAE .
TAKHZYRO did not prolong the QT / QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following subcutaneous administration , the pharmacokinetics of lanadelumab - flyo was approximately dose - proportional in the therapeutic dose range in patients with HAE ( Table 2 ) .
The pharmacokinetic properties and exposure ( steady state ) of lanadelumab - flyo in HAE patients , following subcutaneous administration of 150 mg q4wks , 300 mg q4wks and 300 mg q2wks , are provided in Table 2 .
Following subcutaneous administration of TAKHZYRO , peak plasma concentrations are reached within 5 days , and terminal elimination half - life is ~ 2 weeks .
The anticipated time to reach steady state concentration was approximately 70 days .
At steady - state , the mean accumulation ratio is approximately 1 . 44 , 1 . 42 , and 2 . 43 for dosing regimen of 150 mg q4wks , 300 mg q4wks and 300 mg q2wks , respectively .
Table 2 Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Lanadelumab - flyo Following Subcutaneous Administration ( Trial 1 ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters Lanadelumab - flyo 150 mg q4wks ( N = 28 ) 300 mg q4wks ( N = 29 ) 300 mg q2wks ( N = 27 ) CL / F : apparent clearance ; Vc / F : apparent volume of distribution ; AUCtau , ss : area under the curve over the dosing interval at steady - state ; Cmax , ss : maximum concentration at steady - state ; Cmin , ss : minimum concentration at steady state ; Tmax : time to maximum concentration ; t1 / 2 terminal elimination half - life .
CL / F ( L / day ) 0 . 667 ( 0 . 162 ) 0 . 742 ( 0 . 239 ) 0 . 809 ( 0 . 370 ) Vc / F ( L ) 14 . 1 ( 2 . 93 ) 14 . 9 ( 4 . 45 ) 16 . 6 ( 4 . 79 ) AUCtau , ss ( µg * day / mL ) 233 ( 56 . 6 ) 441 ( 137 ) 408 ( 138 ) Cmax , ss ( µg / mL ) 12 . 0 ( 3 . 01 ) 23 . 3 ( 7 . 94 ) 34 . 4 ( 11 . 2 ) Cmin , ss ( µg / mL ) 4 . 81 ( 1 . 40 ) 8 . 77 ( 2 . 80 ) 25 . 4 ( 9 . 18 ) tmax ( day ) 5 . 17 ( 1 . 09 ) 5 . 17 ( 1 . 12 ) 4 . 11 ( 0 . 377 ) t1 / 2 ( day ) 14 . 9 ( 2 . 00 ) 14 . 2 ( 1 . 89 ) 15 . 0 ( 2 . 48 ) Specific Populations Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed that age , gender and race did not meaningfully influence the pharmacokinetics of lanadelumab - flyo after correcting for body weight .
Body weight was identified as an important covariate describing the variability of clearance and volume of distribution , resulting in higher exposure ( AUC and Cmax ) in lighter patients .
However , this difference is not considered to be clinically relevant and no dose adjustments are recommended for any of these demographics .
Pediatric Population Based on population pharmacokinetics ( PK ) analyses , the mean lanadelumab - flyo ( ± SD ) AUCss was 629 ( 204 ) µg * day / mL following SC administration of TAKHZYRO 300 mg every 2 weeks in pediatric patients 12 to less than 18 years of age .
This is approximately 37 % higher than the mean AUCss in adult patients ( 460 μg * day / mL ) under the same dosing regimen , due to lower body weight in pediatric patients .
Renal Impairment No dedicated studies have been conducted to evaluate the PK of lanadelumab - flyo in renal impairment patients .
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , renal impairment ( estimated GFR : 60 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , [ mild , N = 98 ] and 30 to 59 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , [ moderate , N = 9 ] ) had no effect on the clearance or volume of distribution of lanadelumab - flyo .
Concomitant medications The use of analgesic , antibacterial , antihistamine , anti - inflammatory and anti - rheumatic medications had no effect on clearance and volume of distribution of lanadelumab - flyo .
For breakthrough HAE attacks , use of rescue medications such as plasma - derived and recombinant C1 - INH , icatibant or ecallantide had no effects on clearance and volume of distribution of lanadelumab - flyo .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of lanadelumab - flyo .
Published literature supports bradykinin , which is elevated in HAE , as a pro - tumorigenic molecule .
However , the malignancy risk in humans from an antibody that inhibits plasma kallikrein activity , such as lanadelumab - flyo , which lowers bradykinin levels , is currently unknown .
Male and female fertility were unaffected based upon no observed adverse histopathological findings in the reproductive organs from sexually mature cynomolgus monkeys that received lanadelumab - flyo for 13 weeks at subcutaneous doses up to 50 mg / kg / week ( resulting in approximately 22 times the exposure at the MRHD on an AUC basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Trial 1 ( NCT02586805 ) The efficacy of TAKHZYRO for the prevention of angioedema attacks in patients 12 years of age and older with Type I or II HAE was demonstrated in a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled parallel - group study ( Trial 1 ) .
The study included 125 adult and pediatric patients ( 12 years of age and older ) with Type I or II HAE who experienced at least one investigator - confirmed attack per 4 weeks during the run - in period .
Patients were randomized into 1 of 4 parallel treatment arms , stratified by baseline attack rate , in a 3 : 2 : 2 : 2 ratio ( placebo , lanadelumab - flyo 150 mg q4wks , lanadelumab - flyo 300 mg q4wks , or lanadelumab - flyo 300 mg q2wks by subcutaneous injection ) for the 26 - week treatment period .
Patients ≥ 18 years of age were required to discontinue other prophylactic HAE medications prior to entering the study ; however , all patients were allowed to use rescue medications for treatment of breakthrough HAE attacks .
Overall , 90 % of patients had Type I HAE .
A history of laryngeal angioedema attacks was reported in 65 % of patients and 56 % were on prior long - term prophylaxis .
During the study run - in period , attack rates of ≥ 3 attacks / month were observed in 52 % of patients overall .
All TAKHZYRO treatment arms produced clinically meaningful and statistically significant reductions in the mean HAE attack rate compared to placebo across all primary and secondary endpoints in the Intent - to - Treat population ( ITT ) as shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 Results of Primary and Secondary Efficacy Measures - ITT PopulationEndpoint Statistics Placebo ( N = 41 ) TAKHZYRO 150 mg q4wks ( N = 28 ) 300 mg q4wks ( N = 29 ) 300 mg q2wks ( N = 27 ) CI = confidence interval ; LS = least squares .
Note : Results are from a Poisson regression model accounting for over dispersion with fixed effects for treatment group ( categorical ) and normalized baseline attack rate ( continuous ) , and the logarithm of time in days each patient was observed during the treatment period as an offset variable in the model .
Number of HAE Attacks from Day 0 to 182 [ 1 ] LS Mean ( 95 % CI ) monthly attack rate [ 2 ] 1 . 97 ( 1 . 64 , 2 . 36 ) 0 . 48 ( 0 . 31 , 0 . 73 ) 0 . 53 ( 0 . 36 , 0 . 77 ) 0 . 26 ( 0 . 14 , 0 . 46 ) % Reduction relative to placebo ( 95 % CI ) [ 3 ] 76 ( 61 , 85 ) 73 ( 59 , 82 ) 87 ( 76 , 93 ) Adjusted p - values [ 4 ] < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Number of HAE Attacks Requiring Acute Treatment from Day 0 to 182 LS Mean ( 95 % CI ) monthly attack rate null 1 . 64 ( 1 . 34 , 2 . 00 ) 0 . 31 ( 0 . 18 , 0 . 53 ) 0 . 42 ( 0 . 28 , 0 . 65 ) 0 . 21 ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 40 ) % Reduction relative to placebo ( 95 % CI ) null 81 ( 66 , 89 ) 74 ( 59 , 84 ) 87 ( 75 , 93 ) Adjusted p - values null < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Number of Moderate or Severe HAE Attacks from Day 0 to 182 LS Mean ( 95 % CI ) monthly attack rate null 1 . 22 ( 0 . 97 , 1 . 52 ) 0 . 36 ( 0 . 22 , 0 . 58 ) 0 . 32 ( 0 . 20 , 0 . 53 ) 0 . 20 ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 39 ) % Reduction relative to placebo ( 95 % CI ) null 70 ( 50 , 83 ) 73 ( 54 , 84 ) 83 ( 67 , 92 ) Adjusted p - values null < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 [ 1 ] Primary efficacy endpoint .
[ 2 ] Model - based treatment period HAE attack rate ( attacks / 4 weeks ) .
[ 3 ] Calculated as the ratio of the model - based treatment period HAE attack rates ( lanadelumab / placebo ) minus 1 multiplied by 100 .
[ 4 ] Adjusted p - values for multiple testing .
The mean reduction in HAE attack rate was consistently higher across the TAKHZYRO treatment arms compared to placebo regardless of the baseline history of prior long - term prophylaxis , laryngeal attacks , or attack rate during the run - in period .
Additional pre - defined exploratory endpoints included the percentage of patients who were attack free for the entire 26 - week treatment period and the percentage of patients achieving threshold ( ≥ 50 % , ≥ 70 % , ≥ 90 % ) reductions in HAE attack rates compared to run - in during the 26 - week treatment period .
A ≥ 50 % reduction in HAE attack rate was observed in 100 % of patients on 300 mg q2wks or q4wks and 89 % on 150 mg q4wks compared to 32 % of placebo patients .
A ≥ 70 % reduction in HAE attack rates was observed in 89 % , 76 % , and 79 % of patients on 300 mg q2wks , 300 mg q4wks , and 150 mg q4wks , respectively , compared to 10 % of placebo patients .
A ≥ 90 % reduction in HAE attack rates was observed 67 % , 55 % , and 64 % of patients on 300 mg q2wks , 300 mg q4wks , and 150 mg q4wks , respectively , compared to 5 % of placebo patients .
The percentage of attack - free patients for the entire 26 - week treatment period was 44 % , 31 % , and 39 % in the TAKHZYRO 300 mg q2wks , 300 mg q4wks , and 150 mg q4wks groups respectively , compared to 2 % of placebo patients .
Trial 2 ( NCT02741596 ) Patients who completed Trial 1 were eligible to rollover into an open - label extension study .
Rollover patients , regardless of randomization group in Trial 1 , received a single dose of TAKHZYRO 300 mg at study entry and were followed until the first HAE attack occurred .
All efficacy endpoints were exploratory in this uncontrolled , unblinded study .
At week 4 post - dose , approximately 80 % of patients who had been in the 300 mg q2wks treatment group ( N = 25 ) in Trial 1 remained attack - free .
After the first HAE attack , all patients received open - label treatment with TAKHYZRO 300 mg q2wks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied TAKHZYRO ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection is a ready - to - use , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in the following presentations .
Single - dose prefilled syringe • Supplied in a carton containing one single - dose prefilled syringe with a bromobutyl rubber stopper , 27 - gauge , ½ - inch staked needle and rigid needle cap .
• NDC 47783 - 646 - 01 : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) prefilled syringe .
Single - dose vial • Supplied in a carton containing one single - dose glass vial with chlorobutyl rubber stopper , aluminum crimp seal and polypropylene flip - off cap .
• NDC 47783 - 644 - 01 : 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) vial .
Storage and Handling • Store the prefilled syringes and vials refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
• Keep the prefilled syringe and vial in the original carton to protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Hypersensitivity Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Self - Administration : • Ensure that the patient / caregiver receives clear instructions and training on subcutaneous administration and has demonstrated the ability to perform a subcutaneous injection .
• Instruct patients or caregivers in the technique of proper syringe and needle disposal , and advise them not to reuse these items .
Instruct patients to dispose needles and syringes in a puncture - resistant container .
For more information , visit www . TAKHZYRO . com Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No . 1898 TAKHZYRO ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2022 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 02 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION TAKHZYRO ® ( tak - ZYE - roe ) ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection , for subcutaneous use Read this Patient Information before you start using TAKHZYRO and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is TAKHZYRO ?
TAKHZYRO is a prescription medicine used to prevent attacks of Hereditary Angioedema ( HAE ) in people 12 years of age and older .
It is not known if TAKHZYRO is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
Before you use TAKHZYRO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if TAKHZYRO can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TAKHZYRO passes into your breastmilk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while using TAKHZYRO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription medicines , over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
How should I use TAKHZYRO ?
• See the detailed " Instructions for Use " that comes with this patient information leaflet about the right way to prepare and inject TAKHZYRO .
• Use TAKHZYRO exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• TAKHZYRO is given as an injection under your skin ( subcutaneous ) by you or a caregiver .
• Your healthcare provider should show you or your caregiver how to prepare and inject your dose of TAKHZYRO before you inject yourself for the first time .
• Do not try to inject TAKHZYRO unless you have been trained by your healthcare provider .
What are the possible side effects of TAKHZYRO ?
TAKHZYRO may cause serious side effects , including allergic reactions .
Allergic reactions may happen with TAKHZYRO .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • wheezing • difficulty breathing • chest tightness • fast heartbeat • faintness • rash • hives The most common side effects of TAKHZYRO are : • injection site reactions ( pain , redness , and bruising ) • upper respiratory infections • headache Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of TAKHZYRO .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of TAKHZYRO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use TAKHZYRO for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not give TAKHZYRO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TAKHZYRO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TAKHZYRO ?
Active ingredient : lanadelumab Inactive ingredients : citric acid monohydrate , L - histidine , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injection .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No . 1898 TAKHZYRO ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2022 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , visit www . TAKHZYRO . com or call 1 - 877 - TAKEDA - 7 ( 1 - 877 - 825 - 3327 ) .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE TAKHZYRO ® ( tak - ZYE - roe ) ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection , for subcutaneous use single - dose preﬁlled syringe This Instructions for Use contains information on how to inject TAKHZYRO .
Please make sure to read , understand , and follow the Instructions for Use before injecting TAKHZYRO .
A healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject TAKHZYRO properly before you use it for the first time .
Contact your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Important information : • TAKHZYRO is a ready to use prefilled syringe ( Figure A ) for injection under the skin ( subcutaneous ) to be given by your healthcare provider , caregiver , or by yourself .
• Each TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe contains one 300 mg / 2 mL dose .
The TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe is for single use only .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A : TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe Storing TAKHZYRO : • Store the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Store the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe in the original carton to protect it from light .
• Throw away ( discard ) the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if it has been kept out of the refrigerator , frozen , or not kept in the original carton protected from light .
• Do not shake the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe .
Keep the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Step 1 : Prepare for your injection • a . Gather an alcohol swab , cotton ball or gauze pad , adhesive bandage , and sharps disposal container ( Figure B ) and place the supplies on a clean , flat , surface in a well - lit area .
These supplies are not included in the TAKHZYRO carton .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B : Supplies • b . Remove the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe carton from the refrigerator 15 minutes before injecting .
• Do not use if the seal on the carton is open or broken .
• Your medicine is sensitive to warm temperatures .
Do not use heat sources such as a microwave or hot water to warm your TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • c . Open the carton .
Hold the syringe barrel and remove the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe from the tray ( Figure C ) .
• Do not remove the needle cap until you are ready to inject .
• Do not touch or push the plunger rod until you are ready to inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C : Remove prefilled syringe • d . Wash your hands with soap and water ( Figure D ) .
Dry your hands completely .
• Do not touch any surface or body part after washing your hands before the injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D : Wash hands • e . Check the expiration date ( EXP ) on the syringe barrel ( Figure E ) .
• Do not use the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if the expiration date has passed .
If the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe is expired throw it away ( discard ) in a sharps container and contact your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E : Location of expiration date • f . Inspect the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe for any damage .
The medicine inside the syringe barrel should be colorless to slightly yellow ( Figure F ) .
• Do not use the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if the syringe is damaged or cracked .
• Do not use the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if the medicine is discolored , cloudy , or has flakes or particles in it .
• You may see air bubbles in the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe .
This is normal and will not affect your dose .
If you cannot use the prefilled syringe , contact your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F : Inspect the prefilled syringe Step 2 : Select and prepare injection site • a . TAKHZYRO should be injected into the following sites only ( Figure G ) : • stomach area ( abdomen ) • thighs • upper arms ( only if a healthcare provider or caregiver is giving you the injection ) • Do not inject into an area of your body where the skin is irritated , red , bruised , or infected .
• The area you choose for injection should be at least 2 inches away from any scars or your belly button ( navel ) .
Important : Rotate injection sites to keep skin healthy .
Each new injection should be given at least 1 inch from the last site you used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G : Injection sites • b . Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab and allow it to dry completely ( Figure H ) .
• Do not fan or blow on the clean site .
• Do not touch the clean site again before giving your injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H : Clean injection site • c . Firmly hold the middle of the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe with one hand , and with the other hand , gently pull the needle cap straight off ( Figure I ) .
• Do not touch or push the plunger rod until you are ready to inject .
• Do not use the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if it has been dropped without the needle cap on .
• Do not use the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe if the needle looks damaged or bent .
• Do not touch the needle or allow the needle to touch anything .
You may see air bubbles , this is normal .
Do not try to remove the air bubbles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I : Remove needle cap • d . Throw away the needle cap in your trash or in your sharps container .
• Do not recap the needle to avoid a needle - stick injury .
Step 3 : Inject TAKHZYRO • a . Grip the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe in one hand like a pencil ( Figure J ) .
Avoid touching the needle or pushing on the plunger rod .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J : Grip prefilled syringe • b . With your other hand , gently pinch a 1 - inch fold of skin at the cleaned injection site .
• Keep pinching until the injection is complete and the needle is removed ( Figure K ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K : Pinch a 1 - inch fold of skin • c . Using a quick dart - like motion , insert the needle at a 45 - to - 90 - degree angle .
Make sure to keep the needle in place ( Figure L ) .
Important : Inject directly into the fatty layer under the skin ( subcutaneous injection ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L : Insert the needle • d . Slowly push the plunger rod all the way down until it stops ( Figure M ) .
Important : Do not withdraw the needle until all of the medicine is injected and the syringe barrel is empty .
When the injection is complete , you will see the stopper at the bottom of the syringe barrel ( Figure N ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure N : Stopper at the bottom of the syringe barrel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure M : Push the plunger rod all the way down • e . Slowly withdraw the needle while maintaining the syringe at the same angle .
Gently release the fold of skin .
• f . Press a cotton ball or gauze pad over the injection site if needed and hold for 10 seconds .
• Do not rub the injection site .
There may be a small amount of blood where you injected .
This is normal .
• Cover the injection site with an adhesive bandage if needed .
Step 4 : Throw away ( dispose of ) TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe • a . Put your used TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe in a sharps disposal container right away after use ( Figure O ) .
• Do not recap the needle to avoid a needle - stick injury .
• Do not reuse the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe or any of your injection supplies .
• Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the TAKHZYRO prefilled syringe in your household trash .
• Do not touch the needle .
FDA - cleared sharps containers are generally available through pharmacies , medical supply companies , healthcare providers , and online .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure O : Dispose in a sharps container • • If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
Questions ?
For product or service - related questions , call 1 - 877 - TAKEDA - 7 ( 1 - 877 - 825 - 3327 ) or go to www . TAKHZYRO . com .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No . 1898 TAKHZYRO ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2022 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 02 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE TAKHZYRO ® ( tak - ZYE - roe ) ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection , for subcutaneous use Be sure that you read , understand , and follow the Instructions for Use before injecting TAKHZYRO .
A healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject TAKHZYRO properly before you use it for the first time .
Contact your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Important information : • TAKHZYRO is a ready - to - use solution for injection under the skin ( subcutaneous ) .
It is supplied in a single - dose , glass vial .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe the dose that you should take .
• Only use the syringes , transfer needles , and injection needles that your healthcare provider prescribes .
• Only use the syringes , transfer needles and injection needles 1 time .
Throw away ( dispose of ) any used syringes and needles .
Storing TAKHZYRO : • Store TAKHZYRO in the refrigerator at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Store TAKHZYRO in the original carton to protect the vial from light .
• Do not shake TAKHZYRO .
• Keep TAKHZYRO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Supplies needed for your TAKHZYRO Injection [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Vial containing TAKHZYRO [ MULTIMEDIA ] TAKHZYRO Instructions for Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Alcohol wipes [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Empty 3 mL syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] 18 G Transfer needle ( longer needle ) Do not use the transfer needle to inject TAKHZYRO .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 27 G ½ - inch Injection needle ( shorter needle ) .
Do not use the injection needle to withdraw TAKHYZRO from the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sharps disposal container .
See " STEP 6 " at the end of this Instructions for Use .
STEP 1 : Prepare for your injection • Gather all supplies and place them on a well - lighted flat work surface .
• Take the vial out of the refrigerator 15 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature before preparing an injection .
• Check the expiration date on the box and vial label of TAKHZYRO .
Do not use if the expiration date has passed .
• Check the supplies for damage .
Do not use if they appear damaged .
• Clean your work area and wash your hands before preparing your dose .
Do not touch any surface or body part , especially your face , after washing your hands before injection .
• Remove the vial from the packaging .
Do not use the vial if the plastic cap covering is missing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Gently turn the vial upside down ( invert ) 3 to 5 times to mix the medicine .
Do not shake to avoid foaming .
• Look at the medicine in the vial for visible particles or a change in the color .
Medicine should be colorless to slightly yellow .
Do not use if you see particles or a change in color .
Important : Do not shake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the plastic cap from the medicine vial .
Do not remove the medicine vial rubber stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place the vial on a flat surface .
Clean the medicine vial rubber stopper with an alcohol wipe and allow it to dry .
STEP 2 : Attach transfer needle to syringe [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Screw the 18 G transfer needle to the 3 mL syringe .
Important : Do not remove the transfer needle cap from the needle when attaching to the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Pull back the plunger to fill the syringe with air equal to the amount of medicine in the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the syringe by the barrel with one hand and the transfer needle cap with the other hand .
• Pull off the transfer needle cap straight away from the syringe and away from your body .
Do not pull on the plunger .
Place the transfer needle cap down on a clean flat surface .
• Do not touch the needle tip .
STEP 3 : Transfer TAKHZYRO into syringe and switch to the injection needle [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Keep the vial on the flat surface and insert the transfer needle into the center of the rubber stopper .
• Push the plunger down to inject air into the vial and hold the plunger down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Slowly turn the vial upside down with transfer needle and syringe attached .
Pull back on the plunger to withdraw the full dose in the vial .
Important : Be sure to keep the tip of the transfer needle in the medicine to avoid drawing air in as you pull back the plunger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove large air bubbles by gently tapping on the syringe barrel with your fingers until the bubbles rise to the top of the syringe .
• Slowly push the plunger , allowing air to go back into the vial , until the medicine reaches the top of the syringe .
• Repeat these steps until large air bubbles are removed .
Important : Check again to make sure you have the right amount of medicine in your syringe .
If you do not have enough medicine , pull back on the plunger again while keeping the needle in the medicine to get your full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Return the vial to an upright position .
• Without removing the needle from the vial , unscrew the syringe by holding the needle hub and turning the syringe counter clockwise .
• Return the syringe to an upright position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Throw away the 18 G transfer needle and the vial in a sharps disposal container ( See Step 6 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Screw the 27 G ½ - inch injection needle to the syringe .
Important : Do not remove the needle cap from the injection needle when attaching to the syringe .
Do not use the transfer needle to inject TAKHZYRO as this may cause harm such as pain and bleeding .
STEP 4 : Select and prepare injection site [ MULTIMEDIA ] • TAKHZYRO can be self - injected in your stomach ( abdomen ) or thigh .
If given by a caregiver , TAKHZYRO may also be injected in the upper arm .
• Clean your injection site with an alcohol wipe and allow it to dry completely .
Important : • You should use a different injection site each time you receive an injection to keep your skin healthy .
• The area you choose for injection should be at least 2 inches ( 5 cm ) away from any scars or your belly button ( navel ) .
Do not choose an area that is bruised , swollen , or painful .
• TAKHZYRO should be given within 2 hours of preparing the dosing syringe at room temperature .
After the dosing syringe is prepared , it can be refrigerated at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) and must be used within 8 hours of preparation .
Take the dosing syringe out of the refrigerator 15 minutes before use and allow it to reach room temperature prior to injecting .
STEP 5 : Inject TAKHZYRO [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the syringe by the barrel with one hand and the injection needle cap with the other hand .
• Pull off the injection needle cap straight away from the syringe and away from your body .
Do not pull on the plunger .
Do not touch the needle tip or allow it to touch any other surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Gently pinch about 1 inch of skin at your cleaned chosen injection site and insert the needle .
Important : Be sure to inject under the skin which is not too shallow ( skin layer ) or too deep ( muscle ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Push the plunger slowly until no medicine remains in the syringe .
Release the skin fold and gently remove the needle .
Do not recap the needle .
STEP 6 : THROW AWAY ( DISPOSE OF ) NEEDLE AND SYRINGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place the 27 G ½ - inch Injection needle and the syringe in a sharps container .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal , you may use a household container that is : • Made of heavy - duty plastic , • Can be closed with a tight fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • Upright and stable during use , • Leak - resistant , and • Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps in the state you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Important : Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
For more information , visit www . TAKHZYRO . com This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No : 1898 TAKHZYRO ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2021 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Approved : 11 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Syringe Carton NDC 47783 - 646 - 01 PREFILLED SYRINGE TAKHZYRO ® ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) 1 single - dose prefilled syringe .
For Subcutaneous use only .
Must be refrigerated , store at 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) in the original carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
Keep out of reach of children .
2 mL Single - dose syringe Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mL Vial Carton Rx Only NDC 47783 - 644 - 01 TAKHZYRO ® ( lanadelumab - flyo ) injection 300 mg / 2 mL ( 150 mg / mL ) Single - dose Vial , for Subcutaneous use only .
2 mL 1 single - dose vial .
Takeda [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
