Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • effective in the treatment and prevention of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) with daily use • effectively relieves itching , scaling , burning and discomfort that can accompany athlete ' s foot Warnings For external use onlyFlammability Warning : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Flammable mixture ; do not use near fire or flame , or expose to heat or temperatures above 49 ° C ( 120 ° F ) .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Do not use ▪ in or near the mouth or the eyes ▪ for nail or scalp infections Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions ▪ clean the affected area and dry thoroughly ▪ shake can well , hold 4 " to 6 " from skin .
Spray a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor ▪ supervise children in the use of this product .
▪ pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
▪ use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists , consult a doctor .
Other information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients BHT , Fragrance , Polyethylene Glycol 400 , SD Alcohol 40 - B ( 41 % w / w ) .
Propellant : Isobutane , normal butane , propane Questions ?
1 - 800 - 344 - 7239 © 2015 Distributed by INSIGHT Pharmaceuticals LLC Tarrytown , NY 10591 A Prestige Brands Company Made in India TAMPER RESISTANT AEROSOL CAN FOR YOUR PROTECTION Principal Display Panel : Ting ® Athlete ’ s Foot Spray Tolnaftate Antifungal Spray Liquid NET WT 4 . 5 oz ( 128 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
