DESCRIPTION TIMOPTIC - XE ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
Its chemical name is ( - ) - 1 - ( tert - butylamino ) - 3 - [ ( 4 - morpholino - 1 , 2 , 5 - thiadiazol - 3 - yl ) oxy ] - 2 - propanol maleate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Timolol maleate possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided as the levo - isomer .
The optical rotation of timolol maleate is : • 25 ° [ α ] in 1 . 0 N HCl ( C = 5 % ) = - 12 . 2 ° ( - 11 . 7 ° to - 12 . 5 ° ) .
• 405 nm Its molecular formula is C13H24N4O3S • C4H4O4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol maleate has a molecular weight of 432 . 49 .
It is a white , odorless , crystalline powder which is soluble in water ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; slightly soluble in chloroform ; practically insoluble in ether .
TIMOPTIC - XE Sterile Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , aqueous solution of timolol maleate in two dosage strengths .
The pH of the solution is approximately 7 . 0 , and the osmolarity is 260 - 330 mOsm .
Each mL of TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of timolol ( 3 . 4 mg of timolol maleate ) .
Each mL of TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 5 % contains 5 mg of timolol ( 6 . 8 mg of timolol maleate ) .
Inactive ingredients : gellan gum , tromethamine , mannitol , and water for injection .
Preservative : benzododecinium bromide 0 . 012 % .
The gel forming solution contains a purified anionic heteropolysaccharide derived from gellan gum .
An aqueous solution of gellan gum , in the presence of a cation , has the ability to gel .
Upon contact with the precorneal tear film , TIMOPTIC - XE forms a gel that is subsequently removed by the flow of tears .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Timolol maleate is a beta1 and beta2 ( non - selective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic , direct myocardial depressant , or local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) activity .
TIMOPTIC - XE , when applied topically on the eye , has the action of reducing elevated , as well as normal intraocular pressure , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage .
The precise mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of TIMOPTIC - XE is not clearly established at this time .
Tonography and fluorophotometry studies of TIMOPTIC ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) in man suggest that its predominant action may be related to reduced aqueous formation .
However , in some studies , a slight increase in outflow facility was also observed .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade reduces cardiac output in both healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may inhibit the stimulatory effect of the sympathetic nervous system necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade in the bronchi and bronchioles results in increased airway resistance from unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Such an effect in patients with asthma or other bronchospastic conditions is potentially dangerous .
Pharmacokinetics In a study of plasma drug concentration in six subjects , the systemic exposure to timolol was determined following once daily administration of TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 5 % in the morning .
The mean peak plasma concentration following this morning dose was 0 . 28 ng / mL .
Clinical Studies In controlled , double - masked , multicenter clinical studies , comparing TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 25 % to TIMOPTIC 0 . 25 % and TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 5 % to TIMOPTIC 0 . 5 % , TIMOPTIC - XE administered once a day was shown to be equally effective in lowering intraocular pressure as the equivalent concentration of TIMOPTIC administered twice a day .
The effect of timolol in lowering intraocular pressure was evident for 24 hours with a single dose of TIMOPTIC - XE .
Repeated observations over a period of six months indicate that the intraocular pressure - lowering effect of TIMOPTIC - XE was consistent .
The results from the largest U . S . and international clinical trials comparing TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 5 % to TIMOPTIC 0 . 5 % are shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 Mean IOP and Std Deviation ( mm Hg ) by Treatment Group [ MULTIMEDIA ] TIMOPTIC - XE administered once daily had a safety profile similar to that of an equivalent concentration of TIMOPTIC administered twice daily .
Due to the physical characteristics of the formulation , there was a higher incidence of transient blurred vision in patients administered TIMOPTIC - XE .
A slight reduction in resting heart rate was observed in some patients receiving TIMOPTIC - XE 0 . 5 % ( mean reduction 24 hours post - dose 0 . 8 beats / minute , mean reduction 2 hours post - dose 3 . 8 beats / minute ) [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] .
TIMOPTIC - XE has not been studied in patients wearing contact lenses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE TIMOPTIC - XE Sterile Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS TIMOPTIC - XE is contraindicated in patients with ( 1 ) bronchial asthma ; ( 2 ) a history of bronchial asthma ; ( 3 ) severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [ see WARNINGS , Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ] ; ( 4 ) sinus bradycardia ; ( 5 ) second or third degree atrioventricular block ; ( 6 ) overt cardiac failure [ see WARNINGS , Cardiac Failure ] ; ( 7 ) cardiogenic shock ; or ( 8 ) hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
WARNINGS As with many topically applied ophthalmic drugs , this drug is absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical ophthalmic administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] .
Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , TIMOPTIC - XE should be discontinued .
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) of mild or moderate severity , bronchospastic disease , or a history of bronchospastic disease ( other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma ) in which TIMOPTIC - XE is contraindicated [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] should , in general , not receive beta - blockers , including TIMOPTIC - XE .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have experienced protracted , severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , some authorities recommend gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists .
Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents that might precipitate a thyroid storm .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of potential effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents on blood pressure and pulse , these agents should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of therapy with TIMOPTIC - XE , alternative therapy should be considered .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface [ see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ] .
Choroidal detachment after filtration procedures has been reported with the administration of aqueous suppressant therapy ( e . g . , timolol ) .
Angle - Closure Glaucoma In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This may require constricting the pupil .
Timolol maleate has little or no effect on the pupil .
TIMOPTIC ‑ XE should not be used alone in the treatment of angle - closure glaucoma .
Anaphylaxis While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Timolol has been reported rarely to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms .
Information for Patients Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions [ see PRECAUTIONS , General ] .
Patients should also be advised that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
Patients should be instructed to invert the closed container and shake once before each use .
It is not necessary to shake the container more than once .
Patients requiring concomitant topical ophthalmic medications should be instructed to administer these at least 10 minutes before instilling TIMOPTIC - XE .
Patients with bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular block , or cardiac failure should be advised not to take this product [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ] .
Transient blurred vision , generally lasting from 30 seconds to 5 minutes , following instillation , and potential visual disturbances may impair the ability to perform hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions Beta - Adrenergic Blocking Agents Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and TIMOPTIC - XE should be observed for potential additive effects of beta - blockade , both systemic and on intraocular pressure .
The concomitant use of two topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended .
Calcium Antagonists Caution should be used in the coadministration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , such as TIMOPTIC ‑ XE , and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , or hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , coadministration should be avoided .
Catecholamine - Depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may result in vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Digitalis and Calcium Antagonists The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors Potentiated systemic beta - blockade ( e . g . , decreased heart rate , depression ) has been reported during combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine , SSRIs ) and timolol .
Clonidine Oral beta - adrenergic blocking agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
There have been no reports of exacerbation of rebound hypertension with ophthalmic timolol maleate .
Injectable Epinephrine [ See PRECAUTIONS , General , Anaphylaxis ] Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year study of timolol maleate administered orally to rats , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of adrenal pheochromocytomas in male rats administered 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 42 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Similar differences were not observed in rats administered oral doses equivalent to approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
In a lifetime oral study in mice , there were statistically significant increases in the incidence of benign and malignant pulmonary tumors , benign uterine polyps , and mammary adenocarcinomas in female mice at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 71 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) , but not at 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 700 or 7 , 000 , respectively , times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
In a subsequent study in female mice , in which post - mortem examinations were limited to the uterus and the lungs , a statistically significant increase in the incidence of pulmonary tumors was again observed at 500 mg / kg / day .
The increased occurrence of mammary adenocarcinomas was associated with elevations in serum prolactin , which occurred in female mice administered oral timolol at 500 mg / kg / day , but not at oral doses of 5 or 50 mg / kg / day .
An increased incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas in rodents has been associated with administration of several other therapeutic agents that elevate serum prolactin , but no correlation between serum prolactin levels and mammary tumors has been established in humans .
Furthermore , in adult human female subjects who received oral dosages of up to 60 mg of timolol maleate ( the maximum recommended human oral dosage ) , there were no clinically meaningful changes in serum prolactin .
Timolol maleate was devoid of mutagenic potential when tested in vivo ( mouse ) in the micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay ( doses up to 800 mg ) and in vitro in a neoplastic cell transformation assay ( up to 100 mcg / mL ) .
In Ames tests , the highest concentrations of timolol employed , 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 mcg / plate , were associated with statistically significant elevations of revertants observed with tester strain TA 100 ( in seven replicate assays ) , but not in the remaining three strains .
In the assays with tester strain TA 100 , no consistent dose - response relationship was observed , and the ratio of test to control revertants did not reach 2 .
A ratio of 2 is usually considered the criterion for a positive Ames test .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats demonstrated no adverse effect on male or female fertility at doses up to 21 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Teratogenicity studies with timolol in mice , rats , and rabbits at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 7 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) demonstrated no evidence of fetal malformations .
Although delayed fetal ossification was observed at this dose in rats , there were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
Doses of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 142 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were maternotoxic in mice and resulted in an increased number of fetal resorptions .
Increased fetal resorptions were also seen in rabbits at doses of 14 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose , in this case without apparent maternotoxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
TIMOPTIC - XE should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Timolol maleate has been detected in human milk following oral and ophthalmic drug administration .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from TIMOPTIC - XE in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution have been established when administered in pediatric patients aged 2 years and older .
Use of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in these children is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies in children and adults .
Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , transient blurred vision upon instillation of the drop was reported in approximately one in three patients ( lasting from 30 seconds to 5 minutes ) .
Less than 1 % of patients discontinued from the studies due to blurred vision .
The frequency of patients reporting burning and stinging upon instillation was comparable between TIMOPTIC - XE and TIMOPTIC ( approximately one in eight patients ) .
Adverse experiences reported in 1 - 5 % of patients were : Ocular : Pain , conjunctivitis , discharge ( e . g . , crusting ) , foreign body sensation , itching and tearing ; Systemic : Headache , dizziness , and upper respiratory infections .
The following additional adverse experiences have been reported with the ocular administration of this or other timolol maleate formulations : BODY AS A WHOLE Asthenia / fatigue , and chest pain .
CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia , arrhythmia , hypotension , hypertension , syncope , heart block , cerebrovascular accident , cerebral ischemia , cardiac failure , worsening of angina pectoris , palpitation , cardiac arrest , pulmonary edema , edema , claudication , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , and cold hands and feet .
DIGESTIVE Nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and dry mouth .
IMMUNOLOGIC Systemic lupus erythematosus .
NERVOUS SYSTEM / PSYCHIATRIC Increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis , paresthesia , somnolence , insomnia , nightmares , behavioral changes and psychic disturbances including depression , confusion , hallucinations , anxiety , disorientation , nervousness , and memory loss .
SKIN Alopecia and psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis .
HYPERSENSITIVITY Signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , localized and generalized rash .
RESPIRATORY Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with preexisting bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure , dyspnea , nasal congestion , cough and upper respiratory infections .
ENDOCRINE Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients [ see WARNINGS , Diabetes Mellitus ] .
SPECIAL SENSES Signs and symptoms of ocular irritation including blepharitis , keratitis , and dry eyes ; ptosis ; decreased corneal sensitivity ; cystoid macular edema ; visual disturbances including refractive changes and diplopia ; pseudopemphigoid ; choroidal detachment following filtration surgery [ see PRECAUTIONS , General ] ; and tinnitus .
UROGENITAL Retroperitoneal fibrosis , decreased libido , impotence , and Peyronie ’ s disease .
The following additional adverse effects have been reported in clinical experience with ORAL timolol maleate or other ORAL beta - blocking agents and may be considered potential effects of ophthalmic timolol maleate : Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm with respiratory distress ; Body as a Whole : Extremity pain , decreased exercise tolerance , weight loss ; Cardiovascular : Worsening of arterial insufficiency , vasodilatation ; Digestive : Gastrointestinal pain , hepatomegaly , vomiting , mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis ; Hematologic : Nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura , agranulocytosis ; Endocrine : Hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia ; Skin : Pruritus , skin irritation , increased pigmentation , sweating ; Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , local weakness , diminished concentration , reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics ; Respiratory : Rales , bronchial obstruction ; Urogenital : Urination difficulties .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE No data are available in regard to human overdosage with or accidental oral ingestion of TIMOPTIC ‑ XE .
There have been reports of inadvertent overdosage with TIMOPTIC Ophthalmic Solution resulting in systemic effects similar to those seen with systemic beta - adrenergic blocking agents such as dizziness , headache , shortness of breath , bradycardia , bronchospasm , and cardiac arrest [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ] .
Overdosage has been reported with timolol maleate tablets .
A 30 - year - old female ingested 650 mg of timolol maleate tablets ( maximum recommended oral daily dose is 60 mg ) and experienced second and third degree heart block .
She recovered without treatment but approximately two months later developed irregular heartbeat , hypertension , dizziness , tinnitus , faintness , increased pulse rate , and borderline first degree heart block .
An in vitro hemodialysis study , using 14 C timolol added to human plasma or whole blood , showed that timolol was readily dialyzed from these fluids ; however , a study of patients with renal failure showed that timolol did not dialyze readily .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients should be instructed to invert the closed container and shake once before each use .
It is not necessary to shake the container more than once .
Other topically applied ophthalmic medications should be administered at least 10 minutes before TIMOPTIC - XE [ see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients and accompanying INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE ] .
TIMOPTIC - XE Sterile Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution is available in concentrations of 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % .
The dose is one drop of TIMOPTIC - XE ( either 0 . 25 % or 0 . 5 % ) in the affected eye ( s ) once a day .
Because in some patients the pressure - lowering response to TIMOPTIC - XE may require a few weeks to stabilize , evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with TIMOPTIC - XE .
Dosages higher than one drop of 0 . 5 % TIMOPTIC - XE once a day have not been studied .
If the patient ’ s intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy can be considered .
The concomitant use of two topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended [ see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Beta - Adrenergic Blocking Agents ] .
When patients have been switched from therapy with TIMOPTIC administered twice daily to TIMOPTIC - XE administered once daily , the ocular hypotensive effect has remained consistent .
HOW SUPPLIED TIMOPTIC - XE ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) is a colorless to nearly colorless , slightly opalescent , and slightly viscous solution .
TIMOPTIC - XE ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) , 0 . 25 % timolol equivalent , is supplied in a white low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) dispenser with a controlled drop tip and a yellow polypropylene cap as follows : NDC 24208 - 814 - 25 , 5 mL in a 7 . 5 mL capacity bottle .
TIMOPTIC - XE ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) , 0 . 5 % timolol equivalent , is supplied in a white low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) dispenser with a controlled drop tip and a yellow polypropylene cap as follows : NDC 24208 - 816 - 05 , 5 mL in a 7 . 5 mL capacity bottle .
Storage Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing .
Protect from light .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA TIMOPTIC and TIMOPTIC - XE are trademarks of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : 03 / 2022 9752801 STERILE OPHTHALMIC GEL FORMING SOLUTION TIMOPTIC - XE ® 0 . 25 % AND 0 . 5 % ( TIMOLOL MALEATE OPHTHALMIC GEL FORMING SOLUTION ) Instructions for Use TIMOPTIC - XE ® ( tim - op ´ tik - XE ) ( timolol maleate ophthalmic gel forming solution ) 0 . 25 % and 0 . 5 % Read this Instructions for Use that comes with TIMOPTIC - XE before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Important information about TIMOPTIC - XE : • • Use TIMOPTIC - XE exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
Your doctor will tell you how much TIMOPTIC - XE to use and when to use it .
• • If you use other medicines in your eye , wait at least 10 minutes between using TIMOPTIC - XE and your other eye medicines .
• • Do not touch your eye or areas around your eye with the tip of the TIMOPTIC - XE bottle .
You may get bacteria on the tip of the bottle that can cause you to get an eye infection that can lead to serious eye damage or vision loss .
How should I use TIMOPTIC - XE ?
Step 1 .
Wash your hands .
Step 2 .
Turn your closed bottle of TIMOPTIC - XE upside down ( invert ) and shake once .
Step 3 .
Remove the TIMOPTIC - XE cap by turning the cap in the direction of the arrows shown ( See Figure A ) .
Put the cap in a clean and dry area .
Do not let the tip of the bottle touch your fingers or other surfaces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Step 4 .
Hold the bottle between your thumb and index finger with 1 hand .
Use the index finger of the other hand to pull down the lower eyelid to form a pocket for the eye drop ( See Figure B ) .
Tilt your head backwards .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 5 .
Place the tip of the bottle close to your eye .
Be careful not to touch your eye with the tip of the bottle .
Gently squeeze the bottle and let 1 drop fall into the space between your lower eyelid and your eye ( See Figure C ) .
If a drop misses your eye , follow the instructions in steps 4 and 5 again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 6 .
If your doctor has told you to use TIMOPTIC - XE in both eyes , repeat steps 4 and 5 for your other eye .
Step 7 .
Put the cap back on the bottle and close .
• • The TIMOPTIC - XE bottle tip is made to give 1 drop at a time .
Do not try to make the hole in the tip of your bottle bigger .
• • Do not wash the bottle tip .
• • After you have used all of your TIMOPTIC - XE doses , there will be some TIMOPTIC - XE left in the bottle .
Do not try to remove the extra TIMOPTIC - XE from the bottle .
Throw it away .
How should I store TIMOPTIC - XE ?
• • Store TIMOPTIC - XE at room temperature between 59 ° F to 77 ° F ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C ) in an upright position .
• • Do not freeze TIMOPTIC - XE .
• • Keep TIMOPTIC - XE out of light .
Keep TIMOPTIC - XE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for more information about TIMOPTIC - XE that is written for health professionals .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA TIMOPTIC and TIMOPTIC - XE are trademarks of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : 03 / 2022 9752801 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Pane – 0 . 25 % Carton NDC 24208 - 814 - 25 STERILE TIMOPTIC - XE ® ( Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution ) 0 . 25 % Timolol Equivalent ( Timolol Maleate 3 . 4 mg / mL equivalent to 2 . 5 mg / mL timolol ) FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE Rx only 5 mL BAUSCH + LOMB 9752501 AB44007 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Pane – 0 . 5 % Carton NDC 24208 - 816 - 05 STERILE TIMOPTIC - XE ® ( Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Gel Forming Solution ) 0 . 5 % Timolol Equivalent ( Timolol Maleate 6 . 8 mg / mL equivalent to 5 mg / mL timolol ) FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE Rx only 5 mL BAUSCH + LOMB 9752701 AB44107 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
