1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE IC - GREEN ® is indicated : IC - GREEN ® a tricarbocyanine dye , is indicated : • For determining cardiac output , hepatic function and liver blood flow .
( 1 . 1 ) • For ophthalmic angiography .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 For Determining Cardiac Output , Hepatic Function and Liver Blood Flow 1 . 2 For Ophthalmic Angiography 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indicator - Dilution Studies .
( 2 . 1 ) Under sterile conditions , the IC - GREEN ® powder should be dissolved with the Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
The usual doses of IC - GREEN ® for dilution curves are : Adults 5 . 0 mg , Children - 2 . 5 mg , and Infants - 1 . 25 mg .
Hepatic Function Studies .
( 2 . 2 ) Under sterile conditions , the IC - GREEN ® powder should be dissolved with the Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided .
The patient should be weighed and the dosage calculated on the basis of 0 . 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Exactly 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP should be added to the 25 mg vial giving 5 mg of dye per mL of solution .
Ophthalmic Angiography Studies .
( 2 . 3 ) Dosages up to 40 mg IC - GREEN ® dye in 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP should be administered .
A 5 mL bolus of normal saline should immediately follow the injection of the dye .
2 . 1 Indicator - Dilution Studies In the performance of dye dilution curves , a known amount of dye is injected as a single bolus as rapidly as possible via a cardiac catheter into selected sites in the vascular system .
A recording instrument ( oximeter or densitometer ) is attached to a needle or catheter for sampling of the dye - blood mixture from a systemic arterial sampling site .
Under sterile conditions , the IC - GREEN ® powder should be dissolved with the Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided for this product , and the solution used within 6 hours after it is prepared .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
The usual doses of IC - GREEN ® for dilution curves are as follows : Adults - 5 . 0 mg Children - 2 . 5 mg Infants - 1 . 25 mg These doses of the dye are usually injected in 1 mL volume .
An average of five dilution curves are recommended in the performance of a diagnostic cardiac catheterization .
The total dose of dye injected should be kept below 2 mg / kg .
While sterile water for injection may be used to rinse the syringe , isotonic saline should be used to flush the residual dye from the cardiac catheter into the circulation so as to avoid hemolysis .
With the exception of the rinsing of the dye injection syringe , saline should be used in all other parts of the catheterization procedure .
Calibrating Dye Curves : To quantitate the dilution curves , standard dilutions of IC - GREEN ® in whole blood are made as follows .
It is strongly recommended that the same dye that was used for the injections be used in the preparation of these standard dilutions .
The most concentrated dye solution is made by accurately diluting 1 mL of the 5 mg / mL dye with 7 mL of distilled water .
This concentration is then successively halved by diluting 4 mL of the previous concentration with 4 mL of distilled water .
If a 2 . 5 mg / mL concentration was used for the dilution curves , 1 mL of the 2 . 5 mg / mL dye is added to 3 mL of distilled water to make the most concentrated “ standard ” solution .
This concentration is then successively halved by diluting 2 mL of the previous concentration with 2 mL of distilled water .
Then 0 . 2 mL portions ( accurately measured from a calibrated syringe ) of these dye solutions are added to 5 mL aliquots of the subject ' s blood , giving final concentrations of the dye in blood beginning with 24 . 0 mg / liter , approximately ( actual concentration depends on the exact volume of dye added ) .
This concentration is , of course , successively halved in the succeeding aliquots of the subject ' s blood .
These aliquots of blood containing known amounts of dye , as well as a blank sample to which 0 . 2 mL of saline containing no dye has been added , are then passed through the detecting instrument and a calibration curve is constructed from the deflections recorded .
2 . 2 Hepatic Function Studies Due to its absorption spectrum , changing concentrations of IC - GREEN ® ( indocyanine green for injection ) in the blood can be monitored by ear densitometry or by obtaining blood specimens at timed intervals .
The technique for both methods is as follows .
The patient should be studied in a fasting , basal state .
The patient should be weighed and the dosage calculated on the basis of 0 . 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Under sterile conditions , the IC - GREEN ® powder should be dissolved with the Sterile Water for Injection , USP provided .
Exactly 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP should be added to the 25 mg vial giving 5 mg of dye per mL of solution .
Inject the calculated amount of dye ( 0 . 5 mg / kg of body weight ) into the lumen of an arm vein as rapidly as possible , without allowing the dye to escape outside the vein .
( If the photometric method is used , prior to injecting IC - GREEN ® , withdraw 6 mL of venous blood from the patient ' s arm for serum blank and standard curve construction , and through the same needle , inject the correct amount of dye . )
Ear Densitometry : Ear oximetry has also been used and makes it possible to monitor the appearance and disappearance of IC - GREEN ® without the necessity of withdrawal and spectrophotometric analysis of blood samples for calibration .
An ear densitometer which has a compensatory photo - electric cell to correct for changes in blood volume and hematocrit , and a detection photo cell which registers levels should be used .
This device permits simultaneous measurement of cardiac output , blood volume and hepatic clearance of IC - GREEN ® * .
This technique has been employed in newborn infants , healthy adults and in children and adults with liver disease .
The normal subject has a removal rate of 18 to 24 % per minute .
Due to the absence of extra - hepatic removal , IC - GREEN ® was found to be suited for serial study of severe chronic liver disease and to provide a stable measurement of hepatic blood flow .
In larger doses , IC - GREEN ® can be used in detecting drug - induced alterations of hepatic function and in the detection of mild liver injury .
Using the ear densitometer , a dosage of 0 . 5 mg / kg in normal subjects gives the following clearance pattern .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Dichromatic earpiece densitometer supplied by The Waters Company , Rochester , Minnesota .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Photometric Method - Determination Using Percentage Retention of Dye : A typical curve obtained by plotting dye concentration versus optical density is shown .
The percent retention can be read from this plot .
If more accurate results are desired , a curve using the patient ' s blood and the vial of IC - GREEN ® being used in the determination can be constructed as follows : • Take 6 mL of non - dye - containing venous blood from the patient ' s arm .
Place in a test tube and allow the blood to clot .
The serum should be separated by centrifugation .
• Pipette 1 mL of the serum into a microcuvette .
• Add 1 lambda ( λ ) of the 5 mg / mL aqueous IC - GREEN ® ( sterile indocyanine green ) solution to the serum , giving a dilution of 5 mg / liter , the standard for 50 % retention .
( The addition of 2 lambda ( λ ) of the 5 mg / mL IC - GREEN ® solution would give 100 % retention ; however , this concentration cannot be read on the spectrophotometer . )
• The optical density of this solution should be read at 805 nm , using normal serum as the blank .
• Using graph paper similar to that used in the illustration , plot the 50 % figure obtained in Step 4 , and draw a line connecting this point with the zero coordinates .
Percentage Retention : A single 20 - minute sample ( withdrawn from a vein in the opposite arm to that injected ) should be collected and allowed to clot , centrifuged and its optical density determined at 805 nm using the patient ' s normal serum as the blank .
The dye concentration can be read from the curve above .
A single 20 - minute sample of serum in healthy subjects should contain no more than 4 % of the initial concentration of the dye .
The use of percentage retention is less accurate than percentage disappearance rate .
Hemolysis is not expected to interfere with a reading .
Determination Using Disappearance Rate of Dye : To calculate the percentage disappearance rate , obtain samples at 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 minutes after injecting the dye .
Prepare the sample as in the previous section and measure the optical densities at 805 nm , using the patient ' s normal serum as the blank .
The IC - GREEN ® concentration in each timed specimen should be determined by using the concentration curve illustrated .
Values should be plotted on semilogarithmic paper .
Specimens containing IC - GREEN ® should be read at the same temperature since its optical density is influenced by temperature variations .
Normal Values : Percentage disappearance rate in healthy subjects is 18 to 24 % per minute .
Normal biological half - time is 2 . 5 to 3 . 0 minutes .
2 . 3 Ophthalmic Angiography Studies The excitation and emission spectra ( Figure 1 ) and the absorption spectra ( Figure 2 ) of IC - GREEN ® make it useful in ophthalmic angiography .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosages up to 40 mg IC - GREEN ® dye in 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP should be used , depending on the imaging equipment and technique used .
The antecubital vein can be injected with an IC - GREEN ® dye bolus and should immediately be followed by a 5 mL bolus of normal saline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS IC - GREEN ® is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
IC - GREEN ® is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS IC - GREEN ® contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
IC - GREEN ® contains sodium iodide and should be used with caution in patients who have a history of allergy to iodides because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Deaths due to anaphylaxis have been reported following IC - GREEN ® administration during cardiac catheterization .
( 5 . 1 ) • IC - GREEN ® is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
( 5 . 2 ) • Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of IC - GREEN ® .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylaxis Deaths from anaphylaxis have been reported following IC - GREEN ® administration during cardiac catheterization .
5 . 2 Drug Instability IC - GREEN ® is unstable in aqueous solution and must be used within 6 hours .
However , the dye is stable in plasma and whole blood so that samples obtained in discontinuous sampling techniques may be read hours later .
Sterile techniques should be used in handling the dye solution as well as in the performance of the dilution curves .
If a precipitate is present , discard the solution .
5 . 3 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Radioactive iodine uptake studies should not be performed for at least a week following the use of IC - GREEN ® .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactic or urticarial reactions have been reported in patients with or without history of allergy to iodides .
If such reactions occur , treat with the appropriate agents , e . g . , epinephrine , antihistamines , and corticosteroids .
Most common adverse reactions are anaphylactic or urticarial reactions .
These have been reported in patients with and without a history of allergy to iodides .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Preparations containing sodium bisulfite , including some heparin products reduce the absorption peak of IC - GREEN ® in blood and , therefore , should not be used as an anticoagulant for the collection of samples for analysis .
Products containing sodium bisulfite reduce the absorption peak of IC - GREEN ® in blood .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with IC - GREEN ® .
It is also not known whether IC - GREEN ® can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
IC - GREEN ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly indicated .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when IC - GREEN ® is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have been established .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) for specific dosing information in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data available describing the signs , symptoms , or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage .
The LD50 after intravenous administration ranges between 60 and 80 mg / kg in mice , 50 and 70 mg / kg in rats and 50 and 80 mg / kg in rabbits .
Based on body surface area , these doses are 2 . 4 to 13 - fold the maximum recommended human ( MRHD ) dose of 2 mg / kg for indicator - dilution studies , 10 to 52 - fold the MRHD of 0 . 5 mg / kg for hepatic - function studies , and 7 to 39 - fold the MRHD of 0 . 67 mg / kg for ophthalmic angiography studies .
11 DESCRIPTION IC - GREEN ® is a sterile , lyophilized green powder containing 25 mg of indocyanine green with no more than 5 % sodium iodide and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 6 . 2 .
It is packaged with Sterile Water for Injection , USP used to dissolve the indocyanine green .
IC - GREEN ® is to be administered intravenously .
Indocyanine green is a water soluble , tricarbocyanine dye with a peak spectral absorption at 800 nm .
The chemical name for Indocyanine Green is 1 H - Benz [ e ] indolium , 2 - [ 7 - [ 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - 2 H - benz [ e ] indol - 2 - ylidene ] - 1 , 3 , 5 - heptatrienyl ] - 1 , 1 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 4 - sulfobutyl ) - , hydroxide , inner salt , sodium salt .
IC - GREEN ® has a pH of approximately 6 . 5 when reconstituted .
Each vial of IC - GREEN ® contains 25 mg of indocyanine green as a sterile lyophilized powder .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IC - GREEN ® permits recording of the indicator - dilution curves for both diagnostic and research purposes independently of fluctuations in oxygen saturation .
Following intravenous injection , IC - GREEN ® is rapidly bound to plasma protein , of which albumin is the principle carrier ( 95 % ) .
IC - GREEN ® undergoes no significant extrahepatic or enterohepatic circulation ; simultaneous arterial and venous blood estimations have shown negligible renal , peripheral , lung or cerebro - spinal uptake of the dye .
IC - GREEN ® is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile .
After biliary obstruction , the dye appears in the hepatic lymph , independently of the bile , suggesting that the biliary mucosa is sufficiently intact to prevent diffusion of the dye , though allowing diffusion of bilirubin .
These characteristics make IC - GREEN ® a helpful index of hepatic function .
The peak absorption and emission of IC - GREEN ® lie in a region ( 800 to 850 nm ) where transmission of energy by the pigment epithelium is more efficient than in the region of visible light energy .
IC - GREEN ® also has the property of being nearly 98 % bound to blood protein , and therefore , excessive dye extravasation does not take place in the highly fenestrated choroidal vasculature .
It is , therefore , useful in both absorption and fluorescence infrared angiography of the choroidal vasculature when using appropriate filters and film in a fundus camera .
The plasma fractional disappearance rate at the recommended 0 . 5 mg / kg dose has been reported to be significantly greater in women than in men , although there was no significant difference in the calculated value for clearance .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or impairment of fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING IC - GREEN ® is supplied in a kit ( NDC 17478 - 701 - 02 ) containing six 25 mg IC - GREEN ® vials and six 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection , USP ampules : NDC 17478 - 701 - 25 IC - GREEN ® vial .
25 mg fill in 20 mL vial .
NDC 17478 - 701 - 10 Sterile Water for Injection , USP ampule .
10 mL fill in 10 mL ampule .
Each combination of IC - Green vial and Sterile Water for Injection ampule is intended for single - patient - use .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn Lake Forest , IL 60045 IG00N Rev . 09 / 21 Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 701 - 25 IC - GREEN ® ( indocyanine green for injection , USP ) 25 mg Sterile Rx only single - patient - use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : Akorn Logo NDC 17478 - 701 - 02 IC - GREEN ® ( indocyanine green for injection , USP ) 25 mg kit Sterile Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Container Label : NDC 17478 - 701 - 10 Sterile Water for Injection , USP for IC - GREEN ® ( indocyanine green for injection , USP ) 10 mL Sterile Rx only single - patient - use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Text for Carton Label : NDC 17478 - 701 - 10 Akorn Logo Sterile Water for Injection , USP for IC - GREEN ® ( indocyanine green for injection , USP ) Sterile 6 Ampules ( 10 mL each ) Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
