Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : This product is a keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram contains 400 mg of urea in a vehicle consisting of : carbomer , cetyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , mineral oil , petrolatum , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , water and xanthan gum .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics : The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
INDICATIONS : For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eschar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the use of this product .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken in color on storage .
The discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED : This product is supplied in the following size ( s ) : 8 oz .
( 226 . 8 g ) bottles , NDC 81542 - 201 - 08 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 .
Manufactured for : Bantry Pharma , LLC 1000 N . West Street , Suite 1200 Wilmington , DE 19801 2100565 [ 00 ] Rev . 09 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
