NDC : 51655 - 112 - 10 MFG : 68382 - 040 - 01 Promethazine Hydrochloride 12 . 5 MG 10 Tablets Rx Only Dosage : See package insert Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Keep out of the reach of children .
Each tablet contains : Promethazine Hydrochloride , USP ... 12 . 5 mg Mfg : by Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
India Dist .
By : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 Lot # Exp .
Date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Promethazine is a phenothiazine derivative which differs structurally from the antipsychotic phenothiazines by the presence of a branched side chain and no ring substitution .
It is thought that this configuration is responsible for its relative lack ( 1 / 10 that of chlorpromazine ) of dopamine antagonist properties . Promethazine is an H1 receptor blocking agent .
In addition to its antihistaminic action , it provides clinically useful sedative and antiemetic effects .
Promethazine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Clinical effects are apparent within 20 minutes after oral administration and generally last four to six hours , although they may persist as long as 12 hours .
Promethazine is metabolized by the liver to a variety of compounds ; the sulfoxides of promethazine and N - demethylpromethazine are the predominant metabolites appearing in the urine .
Indications and usage Promethazine Hydrochloride , is useful orally for Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis .
Vasomotor rhinitis .
Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods .
Mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema .
Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma .
Dermographism .
Anaphylactic reactions , as adjunctive therapy to epinephrine and other standard measures , after the acute manifestations have been controlled .
Preoperative , postoperative , or obstetric sedation .
Prevention and control of nausea and vomiting associated with certain types of anesthesia and surgery .
Therapy adjunctive to meperidine or other analgesics for control of post - operative pain .
Sedation in both children and adults , as well as relief of apprehension and production of light sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused .
Active and prophylactic treatment of motion sickness .
Antiemetic therapy in postoperative patients .
Contraindications Promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age . Promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP are contraindicated in comatose states , and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenothiazines .
Antihistamines are contraindicated for use in the treatment of lower respiratory tract symptoms including asthma Drug Interactions CNS Depressants - Promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP may increase , prolong , or intensify the sedative action of other central - nervous - system depressants , such as alcohol , sedatives / hypnotics ( including barbiturates ) , narcotics , narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , tricyclic antidepressants , and tranquilizers ; therefore , such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine hydrochloride .
When given concomitantly with promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one - half , and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one - quarter to one - half .
Dosage must be individualized .
Excessive amounts of promethazine hydrochloride relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain ; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain . Epinephrine - Because of the potential for promethazine hydrochloride to reverse epinephrine ' s vasopressor effect , epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP overdose .
Anticholinergics - Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOI ) - Drug interactions , including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects , have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly .
This possibility should be considered with promethazine hydrochloride tablets , USP .
