1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine sulfate injection is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life - threatening muscarinic effects , e . g . , as an antisialagogue , an antivagal agent , an antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning , and to treat bradyasystolic cardiac arrest .
Atropine is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life - threatening muscarinic effects .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intravenous administration .
( 2 . 1 ) • Titrate according to heart rate , PR interval , blood pressure and symptoms .
( 2 . 1 ) • Adult dosage - Antisialagogue or for antivagal effects : Initial single dose of 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg .
( 2 . 2 ) - Antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning : Initial single dose of 2 mg to 3 mg , repeated every 20 to 30 minutes .
( 2 . 2 ) - Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest : 1 mg dose , repeated every 3 to 5 minutes if asystole persists .
( 2 . 2 ) • Patients with Coronary Artery Disease : Limit the total dose to 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 04 mg / kg .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Each syringe is intended for single - dose only .
Discard unused portion .
For intravenous administration .
Titrate based on heart rate , PR interval , blood pressure and symptoms .
2 . 2 Adult Dosage Table 1 : Recommended Dosage Use Dose ( adults ) Repeat Antisialagogue or other antivagal 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg 1 to 2 hours Organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning 2 mg to 3 mg 20 to 30 minutes Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest 1 mg 3 to 5 minutes ; 3 mg maximum total dose 2 . 3 Pediatric Dosage Dosing in pediatric populations has not been well studied .
Usual initial dose is 0 . 01 mg / kg to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
2 . 4 Dosing in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Limit the total dose of atropine sulfate to 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 04 mg / kg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Atropine Sulfate Injection USP , 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) is available as a sterile , clear , colorless solution supplied in 5 mL single - dose glass syringe for intravenous administration .
• 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) injection in 5 mL single - dose glass syringe .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tachycardia ( 5 . 1 ) • Glaucoma ( 5 . 2 ) • Pyloric obstruction ( 5 . 3 ) • Worsening urinary retention ( 5 . 4 ) • Viscid bronchial plugs ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Tachycardia When the recurrent use of atropine is essential in patients with coronary artery disease , the total dose should be restricted to 2 mg to 3 mg ( maximum 0 . 03 mg / kg to 0 . 04 mg / kg ) to avoid the detrimental effects of atropine - induced tachycardia on myocardial oxygen demand .
5 . 2 Acute Glaucoma Atropine may precipitate acute glaucoma .
5 . 3 Pyloric Obstruction Atropine may convert partial organic pyloric stenosis into complete obstruction .
5 . 4 Complete Urinary Retention Atropine may lead to complete urinary retention in patients with prostatic hypertrophy .
5 . 5 Viscid Plugs Atropine may cause inspissation of bronchial secretions and formation of viscid plugs in patients with chronic lung disease .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of atropine sulfate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Most of the side effects of atropine are directly related to its antimuscarinic action .
Dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , photophobia and tachycardia commonly occur .
Anhidrosis can produce heat intolerance .
Constipation and difficulty in micturition may occur in elderly patients .
Occasional hypersensitivity reactions have been observed , especially skin rashes which in some instances progressed to exfoliation .
Most adverse reactions are directly related to atropine ’ s antimuscarinic action .
Dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , photophobia and tachycardia commonly occur with chronic administration of therapeutic doses .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Mexiletine : Decreases rate of mexiletine absorption .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Mexiletine Atropine sulfate injection decreased the rate of mexiletine absorption without altering the relative oral bioavailability ; this delay in mexiletine absorption was reversed by the combination of atropine and intravenous metoclopramide during pretreatment for anesthesia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine .
It also is not known whether atropine can cause fetal harm when given to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Trace amounts of atropine was found in breast milk .
The clinical impact of this is not known .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Recommendations for use in pediatric patients are not based on clinical trials .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive dosing may cause palpitation , dilated pupils , difficulty in swallowing , hot dry skin , thirst , dizziness , restlessness , tremor , fatigue and ataxia .
Toxic doses lead to restlessness and excitement , hallucinations , delirium and coma .
Depression and circulatory collapse occur only with severe intoxication .
In such cases , blood pressure declines and death due to respiratory failure may ensue following paralysis and coma .
The fatal adult dose of atropine is not known .
In pediatric populations , 10 mg or less may be fatal .
In the event of toxic overdosage , a short acting barbiturate or diazepam may be given as needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
Large doses for sedation should be avoided because central depressant action may coincide with the depression occurring late in atropine poisoning .
Central stimulants are not recommended .
Physostigmine , given as an atropine antidote by slow intravenous injection of 1 mg to 4 mg ( 0 . 5 mg to 1 mg in pediatric populations ) , rapidly abolishes delirium and coma caused by large doses of atropine .
Since physostigmine is rapidly destroyed , the patient may again lapse into coma after one to two hours , and repeated doses may be required .
Artificial respiration with oxygen may be necessary .
Ice bags and alcohol sponges help to reduce fever , especially in pediatric populations .
Atropine is not removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Atropine sulfate injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic isotonic solution of atropine sulfate monohydrate in water for injection with sodium chloride sufficient to render the solution isotonic .
It is administered parenterally by intravenous injection .
Each milliliter ( mL ) contains 0 . 1 mg ( adult strength ) of atropine sulfate monohydrate equivalent to 0 . 083 mg ( adult strength ) of atropine , and sodium chloride , 9 mg .
May contain sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid for pH adjustment .
0 . 308 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
.
pH 3 . 0 to 6 . 5 .
Sodium chloride added to render the solution isotonic for injection of the active ingredient is present in amounts insufficient to affect serum electrolyte balance of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended for use only as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Atropine sulfate , USP is chemically designated 1α H , 5α H - tropan - 3 - α - ol ( ± ) - tropate ( ester ) , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) monohydrate , ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 H2SO4 H2O , colorless , almost white to white solid .
It is very soluble in water and glacial acetic acid , freely soluble in ethanol ( 96 % ) and practically insoluble in diethyl ether .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Atropine , a naturally occurring belladonna alkaloid , is a racemic mixture of equal parts of d - and 1 - hyocyamine , whose activity is due almost entirely to the levo isomer of the drug .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine is an antimuscarinic agent since it antagonizes the muscarine - like actions of acetylcholine and other choline esters .
Atropine inhibits the muscarinic actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves , and on smooth muscles which respond to endogenous acetylcholine but are not so innervated .
As with other antimuscarinic agents , the major action of atropine is a competitive or surmountable antagonism which can be overcome by increasing the concentration of acetylcholine at receptor sites of the effector organ ( e . g . , by using anticholinesterase agents which inhibit the enzymatic destruction of acetylcholine ) .
The receptors antagonized by atropine are the peripheral structures that are stimulated or inhibited by muscarine ( i . e . exocrine glands and smooth and cardiac muscle ) .
Responses to postganglionic cholinergic nerve stimulation also may be inhibited by atropine but this occurs less readily than with responses to injected ( exogenous ) choline esters .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Atropine - induced parasympathetic inhibition may be preceded by a transient phase of stimulation , especially on the heart where small doses first slow the rate before characteristic tachycardia develops due to paralysis of vagal control .
Atropine exerts a more potent and prolonged effect on heart , intestine and bronchial muscle than scopolamine , but its action on the iris , ciliary body and certain secretory glands is weaker than that of scopolamine .
Unlike the latter , atropine in clinical doses does not depress the central nervous system but may stimulate the medulla and higher cerebral centers .
Although mild vagal excitation occurs , the increased respiratory rate and ( sometimes ) increased depth of respiration produced by atropine are more probably the result of bronchiolar dilatation .
Accordingly , atropine is an unreliable respiratory stimulant and large or repeated doses may depress respiration .
Adequate doses of atropine abolish various types of reflex vagal cardiac slowing or asystole .
The drug also prevents or abolishes bradycardia or asystole produced by injection of choline esters , anticholinesterase agents or other parasympathomimetic drugs , and cardiac arrest produced by stimulation of the vagus .
Atropine also may lessen the degree of partial heart block when vagal activity is an etiologic factor .
In some patients with complete heart block , the idioventricular rate may be accelerated by atropine ; in others , the rate is stabilized .
Occasionally a large dose may cause atrioventricular ( A - V ) block and nodal rhythm .
Atropine sulfate injection in clinical doses counteracts the peripheral dilatation and abrupt decrease in blood pressure produced by choline esters .
However , when given by itself , atropine does not exert a striking or uniform effect on blood vessels or blood pressure .
Systemic doses slightly raise systolic and lower diastolic pressures and can produce significant postural hypotension .
Such doses also slightly increase cardiac output and decrease central venous pressure .
Occasionally , therapeutic doses dilate cutaneous blood vessels , particularly in the “ blush ” area ( atropine flush ) and may cause atropine “ fever ” due to suppression of sweat gland activity in infants and small children .
The effects of intravenous atropine on heart rate ( maximum heart rate ) and saliva flow ( minimum flow ) after intravenous administration ( rapid , constant infusion over 3 min . )
are delayed by 7 to 8 minutes after drug administration and both effects are non - linearly related to the amount of drug in the peripheral compartment .
Changes in plasma atropine levels following intramuscular administration ( 0 . 5 mg to 4 mg doses ) and heart rate are closely overlapped but the time course of the changes in atropine levels and behavioral impairment indicates that pharmacokinetics is not the primary rate - limiting mechanism for the central nervous system effect of atropine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Atropine disappears rapidly from the blood following injection and is distributed throughout the body .
Exercise , both prior to and immediately following intramuscular administration of atropine , significantly increases the absorption of atropine due to increased perfusion in the muscle and significantly decreases the clearance of atropine .
The pharmacokinetics of atropine is nonlinear after intravenous administration of 0 . 5 to 4 mg .
Atropine ’ s plasma protein binding is about 44 % and saturable in the 2 mcg / mL to 20 mcg / mL concentration range .
Atropine readily crosses the placental barrier and enters the fetal circulation , but is not found in amniotic fluid .
Much of the drug is destroyed by enzymatic hydrolysis , particularly in the liver ; from 13 % to 50 % is excreted unchanged in the urine .
Traces are found in various secretions , including milk .
The major metabolites of atropine are noratropine , atropin - n - oxide , tropine , and tropic acid .
The metabolism of atropine is inhibited by organophosphate pesticides .
Specific Populations The elimination half - life of atropine is more than doubled in children under two years and the elderly ( > 65 years old ) compared to other age groups .
There is no gender effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ( heart rate changes ) of atropine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of atropine or its potential to affect fertility adversely .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Atropine Sulfate Injection USP , 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) is available as a sterile , clear , colorless solution for intravenous administration and supplied in 5 mL single - dose glass syringe as follows : Strength ( Concentration ) NDC # Unit of Sale Each Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) NDC 70121 - 1705 - 7 ( package of 10 5 mL Single - Dose glass syringes ) NDC 70121 - 1705 - 1 ( 1 syringe in 1 carton ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Pvt . Ltd .
Parenteral Unit Ahmedabad 382213 , INDIA Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 09 - 2021 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 70121 - 1705 - 1 Atropine Sulfate Injection USP , 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Rx only 5 mL Syringe Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70121 - 1705 - 1 Atropine Sulfate Injection USP , 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Rx only Carton Label Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70121 - 1705 - 7 Atropine Sulfate Injection USP , 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( 0 . 1 mg / mL ) Rx only Carton Label ( Package of 10 Cartons ) Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
