Rx Only DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C47 H75 NO17 Molecular Weight : 926 . 13 Nystatin Oral Suspension , for oral administration , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL .
Inactive ingredients : alcohol USP ( not more than 1 % by volume ) , mint blend flavoring , dibasic sodium phosphate USP , glycerin USP , purified water USP , colloidal silicon dioxide , sucrose NF ( 50 % ) , methylparaben NF ( 0 . 12 % ) and propylparaben NF ( 0 . 03 % ) as preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics : Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology : Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
Candida albicans demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin in vitro on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other Candida species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop in vivo .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible Candida species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Oral Suspension is indicated for the treatment of candidiasis in the oral cavity .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The preparation is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General : This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin oral suspension .
It is also not known whether nystatin oral suspension can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin oral suspension should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General . )
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic : Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other : Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects or superinfections ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INFANTS : 2 mL ( approximately 1 / 2 teaspoon ) ( 200 , 000 units ) four times daily 1 mL ( approximately 1 / 4 / teaspoon ) ( one - half of dose ) in each side of mouth and avoid feeding for 5 to 10 minutes .
NOTE : Limited clinical studies in premature and low birth weight infants indicate that 1 mL four times daily is effective .
CHILDREN AND ADULTS : 4 - 6 mL ( approximately 1 teaspoon ) ( 400 , 000 to 600 , 000 units ) four times daily ( one - half of dose in each side of mouth ) .
The preparation should be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing .
Continue treatment for at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and cultures demonstrate eradication of Candida albicans .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Oral Suspension , USP ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL ) is available as a mint - flavored , light yellow , ready - to - use suspension in the following sizes : NDC 0168 - 0037 - 60 60 mL bottle ( with a calibrated dosing cup ) NDC 0168 - 0037 - 61 60 mL bottle ( with a calibrated dropper ) NDC 0168 - 0037 - 74 1 Pint bottle Shake well before using .
Wash cup before and after each use .
Before dispensing , replace cap with safety cap dropper .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
This product sealed for your protection .
If the seal is missing or broken return to place of purchase .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 I237C / IF237E R11 / 07 # 276 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 ML CONTAINER NDC 0168 - 0037 - 60 FOUGERA ® NYSTATIN ORAL SUSPENSION USP 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL Rx only 60 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 ML CARTON NDC 0168 - 0037 - 60 FOUGERA ® NYSTATIN ORAL SUSPENSION USP 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per mL Rx only 60 mL with Dose Measuring Cup Shake well before using .
Wash cup before and after use .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
