Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine , USP 10 mg Famotidine , USP 20 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use Famotidine USP , 10 mg • with other acid reducers • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Famotidine USP , 20 mg • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
• if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions Famotidine USP , 10 mg • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Famotidine USP , 20 mg • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , iron oxide red ( only for Famotidine USP , 10 mg ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol 400 , pregelatinized starch , talc , titanium dioxide Questions ?
or to report an adverse event call 800 - 824 - 1706 Monday - Friday 9 am - 4 pm MST DISTRIBUTED BY : WINCO FOODS , LLC , BOISE , ID 83704 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Blister Pack Carton * Compare to the active ingredient in PEPCID AC ® Original Strength WinCo ™ FOODS ORIGINAL STRENGTH Acid Controller FAMOTIDINE TABLETS , USP 10 mg / ACID REDUCER JUST ONE TABLET Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Blister Pack Carton * Compare to the active ingredient in PEPCID AC ® Maximum Strength WinCo ™ FOODS MAXIMUM STRENGTH Acid Controller FAMOTIDINE TABLETS , USP 20 mg / ACID REDUCER JUST ONE TABLET Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion 25 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
