Active ingredient Oxymetazoline HCl 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to : • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • sinusitis • reduces swelling of nasal passages ; shrinks swollen membranes • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Warnings Do not use this product for more than 3 days Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage • use only as directed .
frequent of prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen • temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Shake well before use .
• To spray , remove the clear plastic cap .
• Hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers .
If this is the first time you are using the pump , spray several times into the air until you get a fine mist .
If you have not used the pump for 14 days , spray several times into the air before using again .
• Insert nozzle into nostril .
Spray upward while breathing in through the nose .
Repeat in other nostril .
• Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Put clear plastic cap back on the bottle • Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24 hour period .
adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) 2 or 3 spray in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature ( 59 ° ~ 86 ° F ) • retain carton for future reference on full labeling Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , concentrated glycerin , edetate disodium , purified water Carton image Nasal Spray Extra Moisturizing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
