[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients ( in each cc ) Purpose Lidocaine HCl 5 % Topical Anesthetic Tetracaine HCl 1 % Topical Anesthetic Racepinephrine HCl 0 . 01 % Vasoconstrictor Uses : External Use Only .
Temporarily relieves pain and swelling due to tattooing , permanent makeup or other pain sensitive procedures .
Warnings : Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not swallow .
Keep out of children ' s reach .
Do not use if you have • A history of severe liver disease or impairment • A known allergy or sensitivity to any of the components of this product .
If sensitivity occurs , consult a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve in seven days , or clears up and occurs again within a few days .
Do not use in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
Do not use if pregnant or nursing .
In case of accidental contact with eyes , rinse immediately with copious amounts of eyewash .
Seek care by an eye care physician .
If accidentally swallowed , get medical help immediately .
When using this product • You may notice temporary blanching , skin irritation or sensitivity of the skin where gel is applied • You may not have pain - avoid sources of heat or injury • You may have delayed swelling after drug is dissipated Directions : Sensitivity test advised prior to use .
Apply sparingly to broken skin and cover with occlusive dressing .
Product is ineffective when applied to intact skin .
Wait until anesthetic effect occurs ( 2 - 5 minutes ) .
Remove product before continuing with your procedure .
Inactive Ingredients : Purified Water , Ethoxydiglycol , Propylene Glycol , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Sodium Metabisulfite , L - Epinephrine , Diazolidinyl Urea , Disodium EDTA , Methyl Paraben , Propyl Paraben , Sodium Citrate , Citric Acid , FD & C Yellow 5 , and FD & C Blue 1 .
Other information : Store in cool dark place or refrigerate .
Discard after expiration date .
Questions ?
Contact distributor on product label for further questions .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NEW & IMPROVED BLUE GEL ANESTHETIC To reduce pain and swelling during pain sensitive procedures .
1 oz .
Distributed by : DERMAL SOURCE Portland , OR 97232 www . dermalsource . com 1 - 866 - 568 - 3223 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
