Active ingredients Titanium Dioxide 4 % Zinc Oxide 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses : • helps prevent sunburn .
• if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
• Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients : Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Alumina , Bisabolol , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Disodium EDTA , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Hexyl Laurate , Panthenol , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Phenoxyethanol , Polyglyceryl - 4 Isostearate , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , Silica , Stearic Acid , Tocopheryl Acetate , Water Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
• may stain some fabrics or surfaces Questions or comments ?
dermaswiss @ dermaswiss . com DermaSwiss DERMASUN Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 - 89 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
