Active ingredients Lidocaine 4 % Menthol 1 % Purposes Topical anesthetic Topical analgesic Use for the temporary relief of pain Warnings For external use only Do not use • • on puncture wounds , cuts , irritated , damaged or swollen skin • • more than 1 patch on your body at a time or with other topical analgesics at the same time • • with a heating pad or apply local heat to the area of use When using this product • • use only as directed • • do not bandage tightly • • avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes • • rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type • • a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days • • dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days • • severe burning sensation , redness , or irritation develops • • you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • clean and dry affected area • • remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle • • carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area • • once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area • • use 1 patch at a time and not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Inactive ingredients aluminum glycinate , aluminum hydroxide , cellulose gum , glycerin , methyl acrylate / 2 - ethylhexyl acrylate copolymer , methylparaben , nonoxynol - 30 , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , silica , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , urea , water Package / Label Principal Display Panel LIDOCAINE 4 % + MENTHOL 1 % ICY HOT ® MAX Pain Relief Patch LIDOCAINE PATCH • • Maximum Strength Lidocaine Without a Prescription * • • Penetrates for Fast , Targeted Relief • • Comfortable Fabric • • Stays in Place * Among OTC Topical Analgesics Contains 1 Patch 3 - 15 / 16 ” x 5 - 1 / 2 ” ( 10 cm x 14 cm ) CHATTEM ® A SANOFI COMPANY Dist .
by Chattem , Inc . , a Sanofi Company P . O . Box 2219 Chattanooga , TN 37409 - 0219 USA © 2020 www . icyhot . com Made in Japan .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Label [ MULTIMEDIA ]
