Active ingredient ........................ Purpose Hydrocortison 1 % ........................ Anti - itch Uses temporarily relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy , poison oak , and poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • by putting this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal discharge • rectal bleeding • diaper rash When using this product consult a doctor before exceeding the recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition gets worse • condition persists for more than 7 days • condition clears up and occurs again within a few days .
Do not begin to use another hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adult and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to the affected area no more than 3 - 4 times daily children under 2 years : do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching : • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal and screw cap back onto tube .
• store at room temperature • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients purified water / aqua / eau ; glyceryl stearate and peg - 100 stearate ; c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate ; isopropyl myristate ; cetearyl alcohol and ceteareth - 20 ; magnesium aluminium silicate ; aloe barbadensis leaf juice ; cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) ; citric acid ; polysorbate 80 ; retinyl ( vitamin a ) palmitate ; tocopheryl ( vitamin e ) acetate ; propylene glycol ; diazolidinyl urea ; methylparaben ; propylparaben Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 375 - 6925 place holder text [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
