WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Balcoltra is contraindicated in women over 35 years old who smoke .
( 4 ) • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Balcoltra is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
Balcoltra is a progestin / estrogen COC indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 How to Start Balcoltra Balcoltra is dispensed in a blister card [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Balcoltra may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start ( see Table 1 ) .
For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen , an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration .
2 . 2 How to Take Balcoltra Balcoltra ( orange active tablets and blue placebo tablets ) is swallowed whole once a day Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of BalcoltraComplete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling .
Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product .
Tablet Color : • • Balcoltra active tablets are orange ( Day 1 to Day 21 ) .
• • Balcoltra placebo tablets are blue ( Day 22 to Day 28 ) .
Day 1 Start : • • Take first orange active tablet on the first day of menses .
• • Take subsequent orange active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• • Take one blue placebo tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . on the day after taking the last inactive tablet ) .
Sunday Start : • • Take first active tablet on the first Sunday after the onset of menses .
Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Balcoltra .
• • Take subsequent orange tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days .
• • Take one blue placebo tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken .
• • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack ( i . e . , on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet ) and additional non - hormonal contraceptive is not needed .
Switching to Balcoltra from another hormonal contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous hormonal contraceptive would have started .
Switching from another contraceptive method to Balcoltra Start Balcoltra : • • Transdermal patch • • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • • Vaginal ring • • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • • Injection • • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • • Intrauterine contraceptive • • On the day of removal • • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient ’ s menstrual cycle , additional non - hormonal contraceptive ( such as condoms or spermicide ) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack .
• • Implant • • On the day of removal Starting Balcoltra after Abortion or Miscarriage First - trimester • • After a first - trimester abortion or miscarriage , Balcoltra may be started immediately .
An additional method of contraception is not needed if Balcoltra is started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy .
• • If Balcoltra is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy , the patient should use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Balcoltra .
Second - trimester • • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second - trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start Balcoltra , following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start , as desired .
If using Sunday start , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient ’ s first cycle pack of Balcoltra .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . ]
Starting Balcoltra after Childbirth • • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery , due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease .
Start contraceptive therapy with Balcoltra following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception .
• • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Balcoltra .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 and 8 . 2 ) , and FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
2 . 3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Balcoltra Tablets • • If one orange active tablet is missed in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
• • If two orange active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day .
Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
• • If two orange tablets are missed in Week 3 or three or more orange active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday , then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day .
Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets .
2 . 4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea , absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken .
If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet , handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Balcoltra ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP , and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) is available in a 28 - tablet compact blister card with : • • 21 orange , round biconvex tablets ( active ) debossed with “ A3 ” on one side and each containing levonorgestrel 0 . 10 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg • • 7 blue , round biconvex tablets ( inactive placebo ) debossed with “ F1 ” on one side and each containing ferrous bisglycinate 36 . 5 mg The ferrous bisglycinate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
Balcoltra consists of 28 tablets in the following order ( 3 ) : • • 21 orange tablets ( active ) , each containing 0 . 1 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol .
• • 7 blue tablets ( inactive placebo ) each containing ferrous bisglycinate 36 . 5 mg .
The ferrous bisglycinate tablets do not serve any therapeutic purpose .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not prescribe Balcoltra to women who are known to have the following conditions : • • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic disease .
Examples include women who are known to : • oSmoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• oHave uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• oHave diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• oHave headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
• • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
• • Hypersensitivity to any of the components .
• • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to the potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity of any of the components ( 4 ) • • Co - administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems : Stop Balcoltra if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop at least 4 weeks before through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding ( 5 . 1 ) • • Liver disease : Discontinue Balcoltra if jaundice occurs ( 5 . 2 ) • • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Balcoltra if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking Balcoltra .
Consider an alternative contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia ( 5 . 6 ) • • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue Balcoltra if indicated ( 5 . 7 ) • • Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea ( 5 . 8 ) • • This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity ( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thrombotic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems • • Stop Balcoltra if an arterial thrombotic event or venous thromboembolic ( VTE ) event occurs .
• • Stop Balcoltra if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
• • If feasible , stop Balcoltra at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of VTE as well as during the following prolonged immobilization .
• • Start Balcoltra no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum VTE decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
• • The use of COCs increases the risk of VTE .
However , pregnancy increases the risk of VTE as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of VTE in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of COCs and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of 4 weeks or longer .
The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
• • Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
COCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
The risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age who smoke .
• • Use COCs with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
5 . 2 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use Balcoltra in women with liver disease , such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded .
Discontinue Balcoltra if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors Balcoltra is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 3 Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN , were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol - containing medications , such as COCs .
Discontinue Balcoltra prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Balcoltra can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure Balcoltra is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop Balcoltra if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
Use of COCs may worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of COC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC related cholestasis .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who take Balcoltra .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking Balcoltra develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue Balcoltra if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of Balcoltra in the case of increased frequency or severity of migraine during COC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different contraceptive product .
In the clinical trial with levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg tablets breakthrough bleeding and spotting was reported in 4 % and 12 % of cycles , respectively .
Breakthrough bleeding and spotting occurred together during 11 % of the cycles .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Women who use Balcoltra may experience amenorrhea .
In the clinical trial , 2 . 6 % of the evaluable cycles were amenorrheic .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuation of COCs , especially when such a condition was preexistent .
If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule ( missed one or more active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
5 . 9 FD & C Yellow No . 5 Allergic - type Reaction This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity 5 . 10 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Balcoltra if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 11 Carcinoma of the Breast and Cervix • • Balcoltra is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• • There is substantial evidence that COCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that COCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
• • Some studies suggest that COC use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 12 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of COCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 13 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have her blood pressure checked periodically with her healthcare provider .
5 . 14 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 15 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while taking Balcoltra .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users : • • Irregular uterine bleeding • • Nausea • • Breast tenderness • • Headache Common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) : headache ( 14 % ) , metrorrhagia ( 8 % ) , dysmenorrhea and nausea ( 7 % each ) , abdominal pain and breast pain ( 4 % each ) , emotional lability and acne ( 3 % each ) , and depression , amenorrhea , and vaginal moniliasis ( 2 % each ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Avion Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 888 - 612 - 8466 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In a clinical trial with levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg tablets , a total of 1477 healthy women of child - bearing potential were enrolled and had 7870 cycles of exposure .
Of these , 792 subjects had completed 6 cycles of treatment .
The women ranged in age from 17 to 49 years and 87 % were Caucasian .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % of women ) : • • headache ( 14 % ) • • metrorrhagia ( 8 % ) • • dysmenorrhea ( 7 % ) • • nausea ( 7 % ) • • abdominal pain ( 4 % ) • • breast pain ( 4 % ) • • emotional lability ( 3 % ) • • acne ( 3 % ) • • depression ( 2 % ) • • amenorrhea ( 2 % ) • • vaginal moniliasis ( 2 % ) At the time of the report , 133 ( 9 % ) subjects had withdrawn from the study due to adverse events .
The most frequent were due to headache and metrorrhagia ( 1 % each ) .
Other adverse events occurring in < 1 % of those who discontinued included amenorrhea , depression , emotional lability , hypertension , acne , menorrhagia , nausea , hypercholesterolemia , weight gain , dysmenorrhea , and flatulence .
All other reasons for discontinuation were reported by 3 or fewer subjects .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide postmarketing experience with levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac disorder : chest pain , dyspnea , palpitations Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea General disorders and administration site conditions : chest pain , fatigue , pain , malaise , injection site pain or erythema , feeling abnormal , pyrexia , condition aggravated , asthenia Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity reactions , including pruritus , rash , urticaria , erythema Injury , poisoning , and procedural complications : injury Investigations : weight decreased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : pain in extremity , arthralgia , back pain , muscle spasm Nervous system disorders : headache , migraine , dizziness , hypoesthesia , paresthesia Psychiatric disorders : depression , insomnia , anxiety Reproductive system and breast disorders : metrorrhagia , menorrhagia , hot flush , vaginal hemorrhage Respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders : nasopharyngitis , cough Sleep disorders and disturbances : somnolence Vascular disorders : deep vein thrombosis , pulmonary embolism 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ’ s wort .
Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
Colesevelam : Colesevelam , a bile acid sequestrant , given together with a COC , has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of ethinyl estradiol ( EE ) .
The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co - administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 - 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors , such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV / HCV protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , tipranavir / ritonavir , boceprevir , telaprevir , nevirapine and efavirenz ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir , atazanavir / ritonavir and etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Combined oral contraceptives containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
Combined oral contraceptives have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid , temazepam and lamotrigine .
Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid - binding globulin increases with use of COCs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
7 . 3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy - Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co - administer Balcoltra with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir , due to potential for ALT elevations [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Nursing mothers : Advise use of another contraceptive method .
Balcoltra can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Balcoltra is contraindicated in pregnancy because there is no reason to use combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) in pregnancy .
Discontinue Balcoltra if pregnancy occurs .
Based on epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses , there is little or no increased risk of birth defects in the children of females who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy ( See Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 percent and 15 to 20 percent , respectively .
Human Data Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or nongenital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to COCs before conception or during early pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) and / or metabolites are present in human milk and in breast - fed infants .
CHCs , including Balcoltra , can reduce milk production in breast - feeding females .
This reduction can occur at any time but is less likely to occur once breast - feeding is well - established .
When possible , advise the nursing female to use other methods of contraception until she discontinues breast - feeding .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Balcoltra and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from Balcoltra or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Balcoltra have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same in post - pubertal adolescents under the age of 18 years as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Balcoltra has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of Balcoltra has not been studied in women with hepatic impairment .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with hepatic impairment .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until markers of liver function return to normal and COC causation has been excluded [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of oral contraceptives , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION Balcoltra ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP , and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) provides an oral contraceptive regimen consisting of 21 orange active tablets and 7 blue inactive tablets .
• • 21 orange active tablets each containing 0 . 10 mg of levonorgestrel , d ( - ) - 13β - ethyl - 17α - ethinyl - 17β - hydroxygon - 4 - en - 3 - one , a totally synthetic progestogen , and 0 . 02 mg of ethinyl estradiol , 17α - ethinyl - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - estratriene - 3 , 17β - diol , an estrogenic compound • • 7 blue inactive tablets each containing 36 . 5 mg ferrous bisglycinate The inactive ingredients present in orange active tablet are FD & C Yellow # 5 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , titanium dioxide , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 3350 NF , lecithin ( soya ) , iron oxide black , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and pregelatinized starch .
Each inactive blue tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : ferrous bisglycinate , citric acid , glycine , water , maltodextrin , silica , microcrystalline cellulose NF , magnesium stearate NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , colloidal silicon dioxide NF , hypromellose type 2910 , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
Levonorgestrel has the empirical formula of C21H28O2 and the molecular weight of 312 . 4 , and ethinyl estradiol has the empirical formula of C20H24O2 and the molecular weight of 296 . 4 .
The molecular structures are provided below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action COCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamics studies were conducted with Balcoltra .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No specific investigation of the absolute bioavailability of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP ) in humans has been conducted .
However , literature indicates that levonorgestrel is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability about 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is between 38 % and 48 % .
After a single dose of two levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets to 34 women under fasting conditions , the mean ( ± SD ) plasma area under the concentration time curve ( AUC ) and maximum concentration ( Cmax ) of levonorgestrel were 41 . 7 ± 18 . 0 ng * hour / mL and 4 . 4 ± 1 . 8 ng / mL , respectively , with a median time to maximum concentration ( Tmax ) of 1 . 0 hours .
The mean ( ± SD ) plasma AUC and Cmax of ethinyl estradiol were 1167 ± 367 pg * hour / mL and 115 ± 37 pg / mL , respectively , with a median Tmax of 1 . 5 hours .
The plasma levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol pharmacokinetic profiles following a single dose of two levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are shown in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution Levonorgestrel in serum is primarily bound to SHBG .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 97 % bound to plasma albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis .
Metabolism Levonorgestrel : The most important metabolic pathway occurs in the reduction of the Δ4 - 3 - oxo group and hydroxylation at positions 2α , 1β , and 16β , followed by conjugation .
Most of the metabolites that circulate in the blood are sulfates of 3α , 5β - tetrahydro - levonorgestrel , while excretion occurs predominantly in the form of glucuronides .
Some of the parent levonorgestrel also circulates as 17β - sulfate .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
Ethinyl estradiol : Cytochrome P450 enzymes ( CYP3A4 ) in the liver are responsible for the 2 ‑ hydroxylation that is the major oxidative reaction .
The 2 - hydroxy metabolite is further transformed by methylation and glucuronidation prior to urinary and fecal excretion .
Levels of Cytochrome P450 ( CYP3A ) vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol 2 - hydroxylation .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and undergoes enterohepatic circulation .
Excretion The elimination half - life for levonorgestrel is approximately 34 ± 14 hours following a single dose .
Levonorgestrel and its metabolites are primarily excreted in the urine ( 40 % to 68 % ) and about 16 % to 48 % are excreted in feces .
The elimination half - life of ethinyl estradiol is 17 ± 5 . 7 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] 14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a clinical trial with levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg tablets , 1 , 477 women aged 17 - 49 years , had 7 , 720 cycles of use .
Eighty - seven percent ( 87 % ) of the women were Caucasian .
The average weight was 66 . 4 kg with a range of 38 . 0 - 154 . 2 kg .
Among the women in the trial , 5 . 3 % had never used COCs .
A total of 5 pregnancies were reported .
This represents an overall pregnancy rate of approximately 1 pregnancy per 100 woman - years .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Balcoltra is available in a blister pack containing 28 tablets arranged in 3 rows of 7 active tablets and 1 row of inactive tablets , as follows : • • 21 active tablets : orange , round tablet debossed with “ A3 ” on one side ; each tablet containing levonorgestrel 0 . 10 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg • • 7 inactive tablets : blue , round tablet debossed with “ F1 ” on one side ; each tablet containing ferrous bisglycinate 36 . 5 mg Balcoltra is available in the following conﬁgurations : Carton of one 1 - cycle blister pack ( NDC 75854 - 602 - 28 ) Carton of two 1 - cycle blister packs ( NDC 75854 - 602 - 02 ) Carton of three 1 - cycle blister packs ( NDC 75854 - 602 - 03 ) 16 . 2 Storage Conditions • • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
• • Protect from light Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients on the following information : • • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs [ see Boxed Warning ] .
• • Increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of COCs is greatest after initially starting a COC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater pill - free interval ) the same or a different COC [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Balcoltra does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• • Balcoltra is not to be used during pregnancy ; if pregnancy occurs during use of Balcoltra , instruct the patient to stop further use [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• • Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Balcoltra [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• • COCs may reduce breast milk production ; this is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• • A woman who starts COCs postpartum and who has not yet had a period should use an additional method of contraception until she has taken a blue tablet for 7 consecutive days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • Amenorrhea may occur .
Consider pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea at the time of the first missed period .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea in two or more consecutive cycles [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Avion Pharmaceuticals , LLC . , 1880 McFarland Pkwy . , Alpharetta , GA 30005 .
1 - 888 - 612 - 8466 Manufactured by : Novast Laboratories , Ltd . , Nantong , China 226009 Date : 02 / 2018 I0090 Rev . A PATIENT INFORMATION PATIENT INFORMATION Balcoltra ( BALL - coll - TRAA ) ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) for oral administration What is the most important information I should know about Balcoltra ?
Do not use Balcoltra if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects ( heart and blood vessel problems ) from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
What is Balcoltra ?
Balcoltra is a birth control pill ( oral contraceptive ) used by women to prevent pregnancy .
Balcoltra does not protect against HIV infections ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
How does Balcoltra work for contraception ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of one clinical study of a 28 - day regimen of levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg tablets , about 1 out of 100 women may get pregnant within the first year they use Balcoltra .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not take Balcoltra if you : • • smoke and are over 35 years of age • • have or have had blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , or eyes • • have a problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • • have certain heart valve problems or irregular heart beat that increases your risk of having blood clots • • had a stroke • • had a heart attack • • have high blood pressure that cannot be controlled by medicine • • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision , or any migraine headaches if you are over 35 years of age • • have liver problems , including liver tumors • • have any unexplained vaginal bleeding • • are pregnant • • have or have had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • • are allergic to levonorgestrel , ethinyl estradiol , ferrous bisglycinate or any of the ingredients in Balcoltra .
Some people who are allergic to aspirin may also be allergic to FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) .
FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) is an ingredient in Balcoltra which also may cause an allergic type reaction such as bronchial asthma .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Balcoltra .
• • take any Hepatitis C drug combination containing ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir , with or without dasabuvir .
This may increase levels of the liver enzyme “ alanine aminotransferase ” ( ALT ) in the blood If any of these conditions happen while you are taking Balcoltra , stop taking Balcoltra right away and talk to your healthcare provider .
Use non - hormonal contraception when you stop taking Balcoltra .
Before you take Balcoltra , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • are scheduled for surgery .
Balcoltra may increase your risk of blood clots after surgery .
You should stop using your Balcoltra at least 4 weeks before you have surgery and not restart it until at least 2 weeks after your surgery .
• • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant • • are depressed now or have been depressed in the past • • had yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) caused by pregnancy ( cholestasis of pregnancy ) • • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Balcoltra may decrease the amount of breast milk you make .
A small amount of the hormones in Balcoltra may pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best birth control method for you while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Balcoltra may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how well Balcoltra works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Balcoltra ?
• • Read the detailed Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information leaflet about the right way to take your Balcoltra .
What are the possible serious side effects of Balcoltra ?
• • Like pregnancy , Balcoltra may cause serious side effects , including blood clots in your lungs , heart attack , or a stroke that may lead to death .
Some other examples of serious blood clots include blood clots in the legs or eyes .
Serious blood clots can happen especially if you smoke , are obese , or are older than 35 years of age .
Serious blood clots are more likely to happen when you : • • ofirst start taking birth control pills • orestart the same or different birth control pills after not using them for a month or more Call your healthcare provider or go to a hospital emergency room right away if you have : • • oleg pain that will not go away • osudden severe shortness of breath • osudden change in vision or blindness • ochest pain • oa sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • oweakness or numbness in your arm or leg • otrouble speaking Other serious side effects include : • • liver problems , including : • orare liver tumors • ojaundice ( cholestasis ) , especially if you previously had cholestasis of pregnancy .
Call your healthcare provider if you have yellowing of your skin or eyes .
• • high blood pressure .
You should see your healthcare provider to check your blood pressure regularly .
• • gallbladder problems • • changes in the sugar and fat ( cholesterol and triglycerides ) levels in your blood • • new or worsening headaches including migraine headaches • • depression • • possible cancer in your breast and cervix • • swelling of your skin especially around your mouth , eyes , and in your throat ( angioedema ) .
Call your healthcare provider if you have a swollen face , lips , mouth tongue or throat , which may lead to difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Your chance of having angioedema is higher if you have a history of angioedema .
• • dark patches of skin around your forehead , nose , cheeks and around your mouth , especially during pregnancy ( chloasma ) .
Women who tend to get chloasma should avoid spending a long time in sunlight , tanning booths , and under sun lamps while taking Balcoltra .
Use sunscreen if you have to be in the sunlight .
What are the most common side effects of Balcoltra ?
The most common side effects of Balcoltra include : • • headache ( including migraine ) • • irregular vaginal bleeding ( including absence of period ) • • nausea • • breast tenderness , pain and discomfort • • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • • pain with your periods ( menstrual cycle ) • • mood changes , including depression • • acne • • vaginal infections These are not all the possible side effects of Balcoltra .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What else should I know about taking Balcoltra ?
• • If you are scheduled for any lab tests , tell your healthcare provider you are taking Balcoltra .
Certain blood tests may be affected by Balcoltra .
How should I store Balcoltra ?
• • Store Balcoltra at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep Balcoltra and all medicines out of the reach of children .
• • Store away from light .
General information about the safe and effective use of Balcoltra .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use Balcoltra for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Balcoltra to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Balcoltra that is written for health professionals .
Do birth control pills cause cancer ?
Birth control pills do not seem to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
What should I know about my period when taking Balcoltra ?
Some women may miss a period .
Irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting may happen while you are taking Balcoltra , especially during the first few months of use .
This usually is not a serious problem .
If the irregular vaginal bleeding or spotting continues or happens again after you have had regular menstrual cycles call your healthcare provider .
It is important to continue taking your pills on a regular schedule to prevent a pregnancy .
What if I miss my scheduled period when using Balcoltra ?
Some women miss periods on hormonal birth control , even when they are not pregnant .
However , if you go 2 or more months in a row without a period , or you miss your period after a month where you did not use all of your Balcoltra correctly , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
Also call your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
Stop taking Balcoltra if you are pregnant .
What are the ingredients in Balcoltra ?
Active ingredients : Orange tablets : levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol .
Inactive ingredients : Orange tablets : FD & C Yellow # 5 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , titanium dioxide , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 3350 NF , lecithin ( soya ) , iron oxide black , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and pregelatinized starch .
Inactive ingredients : Blue tablets : ferrous bisglycinate ) , citric acid NF , glycine , water , maltodextrin NF , silica , microcrystalline cellulose NF , magnesium stearate NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , colloidal silicon dioxide NF , hypromellose type 2910 , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
For more information , go to www . avionrx . com or call 1 - 888 - 612 - 8466 .
Instructions For Use Balcoltra ( BALL - coll - TRAA ) ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous biglycinate tablets ) for oral administration Important Information about taking Balcoltra • • Take 1 pill every day at the same time .
Take the pills in the order directed on your blister pack .
Both the orange pills and the blue pills should be swallowed whole .
• • Do not skip your pills , even if you do not have sex often .
If you miss pills ( including starting the pack late ) you could get pregnant .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• • If you have trouble remembering to take Balcoltra , talk to your healthcare provider .
When you first start taking Balcoltra , spotting or light bleeding in between your periods may occur .
Contact your healthcare provider if this does not go away after a few months .
• • You may feel sick to your stomach ( nauseous ) , especially during the first few months of taking Balcoltra .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If your nausea does not go away , call your healthcare provider .
• • Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills ( see below ) , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• • Some women miss periods on hormonal birth control , even when they are not pregnant .
However , if you miss a period and have not taken Balcoltra according to directions , or miss 2 periods in a row , or feel like you may be pregnant , call your healthcare provider .
If you have a positive pregnancy test , you should stop taking Balcoltra .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea within 3 - 4 hours of taking your pill , take another pill of the same color from your extra blister pack .
If you do not have an extra blister pack , take the next pill in your blister pack .
• • Continue taking all your remaining pills in order .
Start the first pill of your next blister pack the day after finishing your current blister pack .
This will be 1 day earlier than originally scheduled .
Continue on your new schedule .
• • If you have vomiting or diarrhea for more than 1 day , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use an additional birth control method , like condoms or a spermicide , until you check with your healthcare provider .
• • Stop taking Balcoltra at least 4 weeks before you have major surgery and do not restart it until at least 2 weeks after your surgery .
Be sure to use other forms of contraception ( like condoms or spermicide ) during this time period .
Before you start taking Balcoltra • • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at the same time every day and in the order as directed on your blister pack .
• • Have backup contraception ( condoms or spermicide ) available and an extra full pack of pills as needed .
When should I start taking Balcoltra ?
If you start taking Balcoltra and you have not used a hormonal birth control method before : • • There are 2 ways to start taking your birth control pills .
• oYou can either start on a Sunday ( Sunday Start ) or • oYou can start on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your natural menstrual period ( Day 1 Start ) .
Your healthcare provider should tell you when to start taking your birth control pill .
If you use the Sunday Start , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Balcoltra .
You do not need back - up contraception if you use the Day 1 Start .
If you start taking Balcoltra and you are switching from another birth control pill : • • Start your new Balcoltra pack on the same day that you would start the next pack of your previous birth control method .
• • Do not continue taking the pills from your previous birth control pack .
If you start taking Balcoltra and previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch : • • Start using Balcoltra on the day you would have reapplied the next ring or patch .
If you start taking Balcoltra and you are switching from a progestin - only method such as an implant or injection : • • Start taking Balcoltra on the day of removal of your implant or on the day when you would have had your next injection .
If you start taking Balcoltra and you are switching from an intrauterine device or system ( IUD or IUS ) : • • Start taking Balcoltra on the day of removal of your IUD or IUS .
• • You do not need back - up contraception if your IUD or IUS is removed on the first day ( Day 1 ) of your period .
If your IUD or IUS is removed on any other day , use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days that you take Balcoltra .
Keep a calendar to track your period : If this is the first time you are taking birth control pills , read , “ When should I start taking Balcoltra ? ”
above .
Follow these instructions for either a Sunday Start or a Day 1 Start .
Sunday Start : You will use a Sunday Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill on a Sunday .
Use non - hormonal back - up contraception such as condoms or spermicide for the first 7 days of the first cycle that you take Balcoltra .
Instructions for using your pill pack • • Look at your Balcoltra pill pack .
See Figure A . • • Take pill 1 on the Sunday after your period starts .
• • If your period starts on a Sunday , take pill “ 1 ” that day and refer to Day 1 Start instructions below .
• • Take 1 pill every day in the order on the blister pack at the same time each day for 28 days .
• • After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the blister pack , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack ( Sunday ) .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Day 1 Start : You will use a Day 1 Start if your healthcare provider told you to take your first pill ( Day 1 ) on the first day of your period .
• • Take 1 pill every day in the order as shown on the pill dispenser , at the same time each day , for 28 days .
• • After taking the last pill on Day 28 from the pill dispenser , start taking the first pill from a new pack , on the same day of the week as the first pack .
Take the first pill in the new pack whether or not you are having your period .
Instructions for using your pill pack : Step 1 .
Look at your Balcoltra pill pack .
See Figure A .
The Balcoltra pill pack has : • • 21 orange ( active ) pills with hormone for Week 1 through Week 3 .
• • 7 blue ( inactive ) pills without hormones for Week 4 Step 2 .
Find what day of the week you are to start taking pills .
If your period begins on a day other than Sunday , place the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period .
For example , if your period begins on Monday , place the day label strip with Monday as the first day .
See Figure B . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 Remove the orange pill by pressing the pill through the foil in the bottom of the pill pack .
Continue taking the orange pills for 21 days .
Step 4 .
On the first day of Week 4 start taking the blue pills .
Take the blue pill for 7 days .
Your period should start during this time .
Step 5 .
When you have taken all of the blue pills in your pill pack , get a new pill pack and start taking the orange pills .
• • For a Day 1 start : Begin your next pill pack on the same day of the week as your first cycle pill pack .
• • For a Sunday Start : Begin your next pill pack on Sunday .
What should I do if I miss any Balcoltra pills ?
If you miss 1 pill in Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 , follow these steps : • • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• • Then continue taking 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you miss 2 pills in Week 1 or Week 2 of your pack , follow these steps : • • Take the 2 missed pills as soon as possible and the next 2 pills the next day .
• • Then continue to take 1 pill every day until you finish the pack .
• • Use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after missing your pills .
If you miss 2 pills in a row in Week 3 , or you miss 3 or more pills in a row during Weeks 1 , 2 , or 3 of the pack , follow these steps : • • If you are a Day 1 Starter : • oThrow out the rest of the pill pack and start a new pack that same day .
• • If you are a Sunday Starter : • oKeep taking 1 pill every day until Sunday .
On Sunday , throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack of pills that same day .
• • You may not have your period this month but this is expected .
However , if you miss your period 2 months in a row , call your healthcare provider because you might be pregnant .
• • You could become pregnant if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
You should use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as a condom or spermicide ) as a back - up if you have sex during the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you have any questions or are unsure about the information in this leaflet , call your healthcare provider .
They have a more technical leaflet called the Professional Labeling which you may wish to read .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Avion Pharmaceuticals , LLC . , 1880 McFarland Pkwy . , Alpharetta , GA 30005 .
1 - 888 - 612 - 8466 Manufactured by : Novast Laboratories , Ltd . , Nantong , China 226009 Date : 02 / 2018 Rev . A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON FRONT [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Blister Pack , 28 tablets .
NDC 75854 - 602 - 28 28 - day regimen Balcoltra ™ ( levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP , and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 02 mg and 36 . 5 mg This product is intended to prevent pregnancy .
It does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
Rx Only The inactive ingredients present in orange active tablet are FD & C Yellow # 5 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , titanium dioxide , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 3350 NF , lecithin ( soya ) , iron oxide black , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and pregelatinized starch .
Each inactive blue tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : ferrous bisglycinate , citric acid , glycine , water , maltodextrin , silica , microcrystalline cellulose NF , magnesium stearate NF , croscarmellose sodium NF , colloidal silicon dioxide NF , hypromellose type 2910 , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake .
1 Blister Pack , 28 tablets Balcoltra ™ ( Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS .
Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs are contraindicated in women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
NDC 75854 - 602 - 28 28 - day regimen [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON BACK [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Blister Pack , 28 tablets NDC 75854 - 602 - 28 28 - day regimen Balcoltra ™ Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets , USP , and ferrous bisglycinate tablets ) 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 02 mg and 36 . 5 mg .
IMPORTANT : Note to Dispensing Pharmacist : Each compact dispenser contains a combination Patient Information and Instructions For Use Insert with Day Label Stickers .
This should be included with each package dispensed to the patient .
Each active orange tablet ( 21 ) contains levonorgestrel 0 . 1 mg and ethinyl estradiol 0 . 02 mg .
Each inactive blue tablet ( 7 ) contains ferrous bisglycinate 36 . 5 mg .
Contains color additives including FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) .
Usual Dosage : One orange tablet daily for 21 consecutive days followed by one blue placebo tablet for 7 consecutive days according to prescribed schedule .
See enclosed prescribing information .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Keep out of the reach of children .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
Avion Pharmaceuticals Manufactured for : Avion Pharmaceuticals , LLC . , Alpharetta , GA 30005 1 - 888 - 61 - AVION Manufactured by : Novast Laboratories , Ltd . , Nantong , China 226009 Rx Only Iss .
02 / 2018 Rev A C0154 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
