DESCRIPTION LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® Barium Sulfate Suspension ( 105 % w / v , 58 % w / w ) is a barium sulfate suspension for oral and rectal administration .
Each 100 mL contains 105 g barium sulfate .
Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and , therefore , acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
The active ingredient is barium sulfate and its structural formula is BaSO4 .
Barium sulfate occurs as a fine , white , odorless , tasteless , bulky powder which is free from grittiness .
Its aqueous suspensions are neutral to litmus .
It is practically insoluble in water , solutions of acids and alkalies , and organic solvents .
Inactive Ingredients acacia , citric acid , hydrochloric acid , natural and artificial vanilla flavor , polysorbate 80 , potassium chloride , potassium sorbate , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium benzoate , sodium carrageenan , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution and xanthan gum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and , therefore , acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
Barium sulfate is biologically inert and , therefore , is not absorbed or metabolized by the body , and is eliminated unchanged from the body .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For radiography of the gastrointestinal tract .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral Administration This product should not be used in patients with known gastric or intestinal perforation or hypersensitivity to barium sulfate products .
Rectal Administration This product should not be used in patients with known intestinal perforation or hypersensitivity to barium sulfate products .
WARNINGS Rarely , severe allergic reactions of an anaphylactoid nature , have been reported following administration of barium sulfate contrast agents .
Appropriately trained personnel and facilities should be available for emergency treatment of severe reactions and should remain available for at least 30 to 60 minutes following administration , since delayed reactions can occur .
PRECAUTIONS General Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the requisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , as evidenced by hay fever and eczema , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent , warrant special attention .
Caution should be exercised with the use of radiopaque media in severely debilitated patients and in those with marked hypertension or advanced cardiac disease .
Ingestion of this product is not recommended in patients with a history of food aspiration .
If barium studies are required in these patients or in patients in whom integrity of the swallowing mechanism is unknown , proceed with caution .
If this product is aspirated into the larynx , further administration should be immediately discontinued .
After any barium study of the GI tract , it is important to rehydrate the patient as quickly as possible to prevent impaction of the bowel by barium sulfate .
To prevent barium sulfate impaction in the bowel , the use of mild laxatives such as milk of magnesia or lactulose , following completion of the examination may also be required .
These mild laxatives are recommended on a routine basis and in patients with a history of constipation unless contraindicated .
Oral Administration Use with caution in patient with complete or nearly complete obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract .
Rectal Administration Use with caution when obstructive lesions of the colon are suspected .
Care should be taken to minimize the amount of barium sulfate allowed to flow proximal to obstructive lesions of the colon .
When used rectally , care must be taken during insertion of the enema tip into the patient , since forceful or too deep insertion may cause tearing or perforation of the rectum .
Information for Patients Before administration of this product patients should be instructed to : • Inform their physician if they are pregnant .
• Inform their physician if they are allergic to any drugs or food , or if they have had any prior reactions to barium sulfate products or other contrast agents used in x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
• Inform their physician about any other medications they are currently taking .
Drug Interactions The presence of barium sulfate formulations in the GI tract may alter the absorption of therapeutic agents taken concomitantly .
In order to minimize any potential change in absorption , the separate administration of barium sulfate from that of other agents should be considered .
Usage in Pregnancy Radiation is known to cause harm to the unborn fetus exposed in utero .
Therefore , radiographic procedures should only be used when , in the judgement of the physician , their use is deemed essential to the welfare of the pregnant patient .
Nursing Mothers Barium sulfate products may be used during lactation .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions , such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping , accompanying the use of barium sulfate formulations are infrequent and usually mild .
Severe reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) and fatalities ( approximately 1 in 10 , 000 , 000 ) have occurred .
Procedural complications are rare , but may include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , granuloma formation , intravasation , embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes , and fatalities .
EKG changes have been reported following or during barium enema procedures .
It is of the utmost importance to be completely prepared to treat any such occurrence .
ALLERGIC REACTIONS Due to the increased likelihood of allergic reactions in atopic patients , it is important that a complete history of known and suspected allergies as well as allergic - like symptoms , e . g . , rhinitis , bronchial asthma , eczema and urticaria , must be obtained prior to any medical procedure utilizing these products .
A mild allergic reaction would most likely include generalized pruritus , erythema or urticaria ( approximately 1 in 250 , 000 ) .
Such reactions will generally respond to an antihistamine such as 50 mg of diphenhydramine or its equivalent .
In the rarer , more serious reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) laryngeal edema , bronchospasm or hypotension could develop .
Severe reactions which may require emergency measures are often characterized by peripheral vasodilation , hypotension , reflex tachycardia , dyspnea , agitation , confusion and cyanosis progressing to unconsciousness .
Treatment should be initiated immediately with 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL of 1 : 1000 epinephrine subcutaneously .
If bronchospasm predominates , 0 . 25 to 0 . 50 grams of intravenous aminophylline should be given slowly .
Appropriate vasopressors might be required .
Adrenocorticosteroids , even if given intravenously , exert no significant effect on the acute allergic reactions for a few hours .
The administration of these agents should not be regarded as emergency measures for the treatment of allergic reactions .
Apprehensive patients may develop weakness , pallor , tinnitus , diaphoresis and bradycardia following the administration of any diagnostic agent .
Such reactions are usually non - allergic in nature and are best treated by having the patient lie flat for an additional 10 to 30 minutes under observation .
All E - Z - EM barium contrast and barium contrast delivery systems are latex - free .
However , allergic reactions to enema accessories , in particular to retention catheters ( tips ) with latex cuffs , can occur .
Such reactions could occur immediately and result in the previously mentioned acute allergic - like responses or might be delayed in appearance and result in a contact dermatitis .
Known atopic patients , particularly those with a history of asthma or eczema , should be evaluated for alternative methods of administration in order to avoid these adverse reactions .
All plastic / rubber accessories are disposable , single - use devices that must not be reused or left in the body cavity for an extended period of time .
OVERDOSAGE On rare occasions following repeated administration , severe stomach cramps , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation may occur .
These are transitory in nature and are not considered serious .
Symptoms may be treated according to currently accepted standards of medical care .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General The volume and concentration of LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® to be administered will depend on the degree and extent of contrast required in the area ( s ) under examination and on the equipment and technique employed .
See applicable system below for typical adult dose .
Patient Preparation for Colon Examinations In order to achieve optimum results , the colon must be cleansed prior to the use of a barium enema .
This is usually accomplished by placing the patient on a low fat , low residue diet , combined with the use of laxatives and / or cathartics .
A cleansing enema may also be used unless contraindicated .
RECTAL ADMINISTRATION In order to assure rapid colonic filling and drainage , LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® should only be used with an enema kit with a large ( ½ inch ) lumen such as the Super XL ® Enema Bag System ( Cat .
No . 8925 ) or equivalent .
Refer to the enema kit labeling for additional CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE .
Refer to manufacturer ’ s instructions if another administration system is used .
Single Contrast Colon Studies Dilute 1 part LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® with 5 parts water to yield approximately 17 . 5 % w / v , 15 % w / w ; or dilute as required .
Typical Adult Dose : 1000 mL to 2500 mL of diluted suspension .
Double Contrast Colon Studies Use undiluted .
Typical Adult Dose : 500 mL to 1500 mL or as directed by a physician .
ORAL ADMINISTRATION Esophagus and Cardiac Series Undiluted LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® should be administered orally for double - contrast examination of the esophagus .
Films are taken during rapid swallowing of barium sulfate .
Typical Adult Dose : 60 mL to 300 mL Stomach LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® can be used for single or double - contrast examination of the stomach .
It can be used undiluted or diluted 1 : 1 with water to produce a 52 . 5 % w / v .
Diluted LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® is highly suited for a biphasic examination of the stomach .
Following completion of the double - contrast examination of the stomach using E - Z - HD ™ barium sulfate , undiluted or diluted 1 : 1 with water , LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® may be used for the single phase of the study .
Typical Adult Dose : 150 mL to 340 mL of diluted or undiluted as applicable .
Small Bowel Series LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® can be used for small bowel series .
It can be given alone or can be used following the completion of a double - contrast examination of the stomach using E - Z - HD ™ .
It may be given either undiluted or in 1 : 1 dilution .
Higher dilution will decrease the density of the barium sulfate but will increase the speed of the flow of contrast .
Typical Adult Dose : 340 mL to 750 mL of diluted or undiluted as applicable .
STORAGE USP Controlled Room Temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
HOW SUPPLIED LIQUID POLIBAR PLUS ® is supplied as follows : 750 mL jugs , NDC 32909 - 167 - 55 .
Rx Only SHAKE WELL PRIOR TO USE Manufactured by E - Z - EM Canada Inc . for E - Z - EM , Inc . a subsidiary of Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 Tel : 1 - 516 - 333 - 8230 1 - 800 544 - 4624 rev . 02 / 20 CL10F901 Liquid Polibar Plus Carton NDC : 32909 - 168 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Liquid Polibar Plus Bottle NDC : 32909 - 167 - 55 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
