in a Urea Vehicle FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY Rx only NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION : Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads 10 % contain a 10 % solution of sodium sulfacetamide on a textured pad .
Each gram of medicated solution contains 100 mg sodium sulfacetamide , purified water , sodium EDTA , sodium thiosulfate and urea ( 1 0 % ) .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are greaseless and leave no residue when applied to the skin .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is C8H9N2Na03S • H2O , with a molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically it is acetamide , N - [ ( 4 aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - , monosodium salt and monohydrate , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide - sensitive gram - positive and gram - negative micro - organism including P . acne commonly isolasted from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid P ( ABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin in humans has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 o t 12 . 8 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any of the ingredients of the preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity t o sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug - induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrrespective of the route of administration , and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
If Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads produce signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions , discontinue use of the preparation .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded , or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , potentially any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could occur , and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
Patients should discontinue the use of Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads if the condition becomes worse , or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever , or sores in the mouth develop .
Drug Interactions : Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads .
Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads .
It also is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity , which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome has been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Gently apply Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads to the affected areas 1 to 2 times daily or as directed by a physician until the infection has cleared .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads NDC 0168 - 0484 - 01 contain 30 Foil Pouches , each with a single - use medicated pad ( 2 . 5 mL each ) .
Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Medicated Pads may darken after prolonged storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Manufactured for : E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc . , Melville New York 11747 Manufactured by : Pegasus Laboratories , Inc . , Pensacola , FL 32514 IL302A R3 / 09 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – CARTON – 30 CT NDC 0168 - 0484 - 01 30 Foil Pouches ( 2 . 5 mL each ) Fougera ® SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE Medicated Pads 10 % In a Urea Vehicle For Topical Use Only For dermatologic use only – not for ophthalmic use Contains : 30 Foil Pouches , each with a single - use medicated pad ( 2 . 5 mL each ) Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – CONTAINER – 2 . 5 mL NDC 0168 - 0484 - 01 2 . 5 mL Fougera ® SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE Medicated Pads 10 % in a Urea Vehicle For Topical Use Only For dermatologic use only – not for ophthalmic use Single - use medicated pad 2 . 5 mL Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
