( 100 , 000 units / g ) Rx Only DESCRIPTION EACH GRAM OF NYSTATIN CREAM USP CONTAINS : 100 , 000 units in an aqueous cream base of aluminum hydroxide gel , cetearyl alcohol ( and ) ceteareth - 20 , citric acid , glyceryl stearate , methylparaben , polyoxyl 40 stearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sorbic acid , sorbitol solution , titanium dioxide and white petrolatum .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is an antifungal antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
It probably acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of the fungus with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin is a polyene antibiotic of undetermined structural formula that is obtained from Streptomyces noursei , and is the first well tolerated antifungal antibiotic of dependable efficacy for the treatment of cutaneous , oral and intestinal infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
It exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria .
Nystatin provides specific therapy for all localized forms of candidiasis .
Symptomatic relief is rapid , often occurring within 24 to 72 hours after the initiation of treatment .
Cure is effected both clinically and mycologically in most cases of localized candidiasis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Cream USP is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida ( Monilia ) albicans and other Candida species .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Cream USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS Should a reaction of hypersensitivity occur the drug should be immediately withdrawn and appropriate measures taken .
This preparation is not for ophthalmic use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants , even on prolonged administration .
If irritation on topical application should occur , discontinue medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Cream USP should be applied liberally to the affected areas twice a day or as indicated until healing is complete .
Nystatin cream is usually preferred to nystatin ointment in candidiasis involving intertriginous areas ; very moist lesions however are best treated with nystatin topical powder .
The cream does not stain the skin or mucous membranes and it provides a simple , convenient means of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream USP 100 , 000 units / g 15 g tube ( 0 . 53 oz ) Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to excessive heat , 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Actavis Mid Atlantic LLC 1877 Kawai Road Lincolnton , NC 28092 USA FORM NO . 0163 Rev . 1 / 06 VC2751 Repackaged by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
