This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Camphor 10 % .
Purpose : Topical Analgesic [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purpose Topical Analgesic Use For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache , arthritis , strains , bruises and sprains .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Do not bandage tightly or apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Do not use On children under 16 years of age except on the advice of a physician .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symtpoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 16 years of age and older .
Wash the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thorougly .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times a day .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Do not expose to excessive heat Inactive ingredients cyclomethicone , white petrolatum Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 70 g NDC : 82165 - 103 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
