1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TYRVAYA ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease .
TYRVAYA ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray is a cholinergic agonist indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • One spray in each nostril twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Prime with seven ( 7 ) actuations before initial use .
Re - prime with 1 actuation if not used for more than five ( 5 ) days .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Spray TYRVAYA once in each nostril twice daily ( approximately 12 hours apart ) .
If a dose is missed , resume regular dosing at the next scheduled dose time .
2 . 2 Priming Instructions Priming : Prime TYRVAYA before initial use by pumping seven ( 7 ) actuations into the air away from the face .
When TYRVAYA has not been used for more than 5 days , re - prime with 1 spray into the air .
Do not shake .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Nasal spray delivering 0 . 03 mg of varenicline in each spray ( 0 . 05 mL ) .
Nasal spray delivering 0 . 03 mg of varenicline in each spray ( 0 . 05 mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction reported in 82 % of patients was sneezing .
Events that were reported in 5 - 16 % of patients were cough , throat irritation , and instillation - site ( nose ) irritation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oyster Point Pharma at 1 - 877 - EYE - 0123 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In three clinical studies of dry eye disease conducted with varenicline solution nasal spray , 349 patients received at least 1 dose of TYRVAYA .
The majority of patients had 31 days of treatment exposure , with maximum exposure of 105 days .
The most common adverse reactions reported in 82 % of TYRVAYA treated patients was sneezing .
Other common adverse reactions that were reported in > 5 % of patients include cough ( 16 % ) , throat irritation ( 13 % ) , and instillation - site ( nose ) irritation ( 8 % ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on TYRVAYA use in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks .
In animal reproduction studies , varenicline did not produce malformations at clinically relevant doses .
All pregnancies have a risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Pregnant rats and rabbits received varenicline succinate during organogenesis at oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
While no fetal structural abnormalities occurred in either species , maternal toxicity , characterized by reduced body weight gain , and reduced fetal weights occurred in rabbits at the highest dose ( 4864 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a pre - and postnatal development study , pregnant rats received up to 15 mg / kg / day of oral varenicline succinate from organogenesis through lactation .
Maternal toxicity , characterized by a decrease in body weight gain , was observed at 15 mg / kg / day ( 1216 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Decreased fertility and increased auditory startle response occurred in offspring at the highest maternal dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of varenicline in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
In animal studies varenicline was present in milk of lactating rats .
However , due to species - specific differences in lactation physiology , animal data may not reliably predict drug levels in human milk .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of TYRVAYA to an infant during lactation ; however , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for TYRVAYA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from TYRVAYA .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of TYRVAYA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION TYRVAYA nasal spray contains varenicline which is a partial nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist of α4β2 , α4α6β2 , α3β4 , and α3α5β4 receptors and a full α7 receptor agonist .
Varenicline , as the tartrate salt , is a powder which is a white to off - white to slightly yellow solid whose chemical name is 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 - tetrahydro - 6 , 10 - methano - 6 H - pyrazino [ 2 , 3 - h ] [ 3 ] benzazepine , ( 2 R , 3 R ) - 2 , 3 - dihydroxybutanedioate ( 1 : 1 ) .
It is highly soluble in water .
Varenicline tartrate has a molecular weight of 361 . 35 Daltons and a molecular formula of C13H13N3 ⋅ C4H6O6 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] TYRVAYA ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray is formulated for intranasal use as a clear 0 . 6 mg / mL strength solution , at pH 6 . 4 .
After priming [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] , each actuation delivers a 0 . 05 mL spray containing 0 . 03 mg varenicline free base , equivalent to 0 . 05 mg of varenicline tartrate .
The formulation also contains the following inactive ingredients : sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , monobasic sodium phosphate anhydrous , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The efficacy of TYRVAYA in dry eye disease is believed to be the result of varenicline ' s activity at heteromeric sub - type ( s ) of the nicotinic acetylcholine ( nACh ) receptor where its binding produces agonist activity and activates the trigeminal parasympathetic pathway resulting in increased production of basal tear film as a treatment for dry eye disease .
Varenicline binds with high affinity and selectivity at human α4β2 , α4α6β2 , α3β4 , α3α5β4 and α7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption / Distribution Following administration of 0 . 12 mg ( 0 . 06 mg per 50 - µL spray in each nostril ) , a strength of varenicline that is higher than the labeled concentration , varenicline can be detected in plasma by 5 minutes , generally achieves peak concentration within 2 hours , with a mean Cmax of 0 . 34 ng / mL , and has an AUC0 - inf of 7 . 46 h * ng / mL .
The systemic exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) following this intranasal dose was approximately 7 . 5 % of the exposure observed following a 1 mg oral dose of varenicline .
Metabolism / Elimination The mean ± SD elimination half - life of varenicline after intranasal administration is approximately 19 ± 10 hours .
Varenicline undergoes minimal metabolism with 92 % excreted as unchanged drug in the urine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Lifetime carcinogenicity studies were performed in CD - 1 mice and Sprague - Dawley rats .
There was no evidence of a carcinogenic effect in mice administered varenicline by oral gavage for 2 years at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 810 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Rats were administered varenicline ( 1 , 5 , and 15 mg / kg / day ) by oral gavage for 2 years .
In male rats ( n = 65 per sex per dose group ) , incidences of hibernoma ( tumor of the brown fat ) were increased at the mid dose ( 1 tumor , 5 mg / kg / day , 405 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) and maximum dose ( 2 tumors , 15 mg / kg / day , 1216 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical relevance of this finding to humans has not been established .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in female rats .
Mutagenesis Varenicline was not genotoxic , with or without metabolic activation , in the following assays : Ames bacterial mutation assay ; mammalian CHO / HGPRT assay ; and tests for cytogenetic aberrations in vivo in rat bone marrow and in vitro in human lymphocytes .
Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of impairment of fertility in either male or female Sprague - Dawley rats administered varenicline succinate up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 1216 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , characterized by a decrease in body weight gain , was observed at 15 mg / kg / day .
A decrease in fertility was noted in the offspring of pregnant rats administered varenicline succinate at an oral dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
The decrease in fertility in the offspring of treated female rats was not evident at an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( 243 times the MRHD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of TYRVAYA for the treatment of dry eye disease was supported by two randomized , multi - center , double - masked , vehicle - controlled studies ( ONSET - 1 and ONSET - 2 ) .
In the ONSET - 1 study , 182 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to receive one spray in each nostril twice daily of varenicline solution 0 . 006 mg ( N = 47 ) , TYRVAYA 0 . 03 mg ( N = 48 ) , varenicline solution 0 . 06 mg ( N = 44 ) , or vehicle ( N = 43 ) .
In the ONSET - 2 study , 758 patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to receive one spray in each nostril twice daily of TYRVAYA 0 . 03 mg ( N = 260 ) , varenicline solution 0 . 06 mg ( N = 246 ) , or vehicle ( N = 252 ) .
The majority of patients were female ( 74 % ) , the mean ( standard deviation [ SD ] ) age was 61 ( 12 . 5 ) years , the mean ( SD ) baseline anesthetized Schirmer ’ s score was 5 . 1 mm ( 2 . 9 ) , and the mean ( SD ) baseline eye dryness score ( EDS ) was 59 . 3 ( 21 . 6 ) .
Use of artificial tears was allowed during the studies .
Enrollment criteria included minimal signs [ i . e . , anesthetized Schirmer ' s test score ( range , 0 - 10 mm ) and corneal fluorescein staining ( range , 2 - 14 ) ] and was not limited by baseline EDS ( range , 2 - 100 ) .
Efficacy Tear film production was measured by anesthetized Schirmer ’ s score assessed using a Schirmer ’ s strip ( 0 - 35 mm ) .
The average baseline Schirmer ’ s score was 5 . 0 mm in the ONSET - 1 study and 5 . 1 mm in the ONSET - 2 study .
Of the patients treated with TYRVAYA , 52 % achieved ≥ 10 mm increase in Schirmer ’ s score from baseline in the ONSET - 1 study and 47 % achieved ≥ 10 mm increase in Schirmer ’ s score from baseline in the ONSET - 2 study , compared to 14 % and 28 % of vehicle - treated patients in the ONSET - 1 study and the ONSET - 2 study , respectively at Day 28 ( see Table 1 ) .
Of the patients treated with TYRVAYA , the mean change in Schirmer ’ s score was 11 . 7 mm and 11 . 3 mm as compared to 3 . 2 mm and 6 . 3 mm in the vehicle treated patients in the ONSET - 1 study and ONSET - 2 study , respectively at Day 28 .
Table 1 : Percent of Patients Achieving ≥ 10 mm Improvement from Baseline in Schirmer ’ s Score in 28 - day Studies in Patients with Dry Eye Disease ONSET - 1 ONSET - 2 TYRVAYA N = 48 Vehicle N = 43 TYRVAYA N = 260 Vehicle N = 252 ≥ 10 - mm increase in tear production ( % of eyes ) at Day 28 52 % 14 % 47 % 28 % Proportion Difference ( 95 % CI ) 38 % ( 21 % , 56 % ) 20 % ( 11 % , 28 % ) p - value versus control < 0 . 01 < 0 . 01 Cochran - Mantel - Haenszel ( CMH ) test controlling for study site , baseline Schirmer ’ s test score ( STS ) , and baseline EDS .
All randomized and treated patients were included in the analysis and missing data were imputed using last - available data .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied TYRVAYA ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray is available in a carton containing two ( 2 ) nasal spray amber glass Type I bottles .
Each bottle consists of a white nasal pump and blue dust cover , delivering 0 . 03 mg varenicline per spray ( 0 . 05 mL ) .
Each bottle delivers one spray in each nostril twice daily for 15 days .
Two nasal spray bottles in each carton , containing 60 sprays per bottle , equivalent to 30 - days ’ supply with one spray in each nostril twice daily ( NDC 73521 - 030 - 02 ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling • • Store TYRVAYA nasal spray at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
• • Discard TYRVAYA nasal spray bottle 30 days after opening bottle .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
• • Instruct patients that TYRVAYA works to increase tear production in the eye after being sprayed in the nose .
• • Instruct patients to prime the bottle before using it for the first time by pumping seven ( 7 ) sprays into the air away from the face and to re - prime it by pumping 1 spray into the air away from the face if the bottle has not been used in more than five ( 5 ) days .
• • Instruct patients to wipe the nasal applicator with a clean tissue after each use .
• • Instruct patients to not shake or freeze the bottle .
Manufactured for : Oyster Point Pharma , Inc , 202 Carnegie Center , Suite 109 , Princeton , NJ 08540 Copyrights and Trademarks are property of their respective owners .
TYRVAYA ™ is a trademark of Oyster Point Pharma , Inc .
TYRVAYA ™ and / or the use of TYRVAYA ™ in a method may be covered by one or more patents or patent applications , available at www . oysterpointrx . com / patent - notices .
© 2021 Oyster Point Pharma , Inc .
All Rights Reserved .
Issued : Oct / 2021 Patient Information TYRVAYA ™ ( Teer - vye - ah ) ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray , for intranasal use What is TYRVAYA ?
TYRVAYA is a prescription nasal spray used to treat the signs and symptoms of dry eye disease .
Before you use TYRVAYA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if TYRVAYA will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TYRVAYA passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will use TYRVAYA if you plan to breastfeed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use TYRVAYA ?
• • See the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information leaflet for information about the right way to use TYRVAYA .
• • TYRVAYA increases tear production in the eye after being sprayed in the nose .
• • Use TYRVAYA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Do not shake the bottles .
• • Spray TYRVAYA 1 time in each nostril , 2 times daily ( about 12 hours apart ) .
• • A 1 - month supply of TYRVAYA consists of 2 nasal spray bottles .
Finish 1 bottle before opening the second .
TYRVAYA comes in glass bottles with a white nasal pump and blue dust cover .
• • If you miss a dose of TYRVAYA , skip that dose and take your next dose at your regular scheduled time .
• • Do not take an extra dose to make up for a missed dose .
What are the possible side effects of TYRVAYA ?
The most common side effects of TYRVAYA include sneezing , cough , and throat and nose irritation .
These are not the only possible side effects of TYRVAYA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TYRVAYA ?
• • Store TYRVAYA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) • • Do not freeze .
• • Throw away ( discard ) TYRVAYA nasal spray bottle 30 days after first use .
Keep TYRVAYA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TYRVAYA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use TYRVAYA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TYRVAYA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about TYRVAYA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TYRVAYA ?
Active ingredient : varenicline tartrate Inactive ingredients : sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate , monobasic sodium phosphate anhydrous , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
TYRVAYA ™ is a trademark of Oyster Point Pharma , Inc .
TYRVAYA ™ and / or the use of TYRVAYA ™ in a method may be covered by one or more patents or patent applications , available at www . oysterpointrx . com / patent - notices .
Manufactured for : Oyster Point Pharma , Inc . , 202 Carnegie Center , Suite 109 , Princeton , NJ 08540 • This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 10 / 2021 Instructions for Use Tyrvaya ™ ( Teer - vye - ah ) ( varenicline solution ) nasal spray , for intranasal use Read this Instructions for Use before you start using TYRVAYA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Important information you need to know before using TYRVAYA : Parts of your TYRVAYA nasal spray : • • TYRVAYA is for use in the nose .
• • Do not shake the bottles .
• • The TYRVAYA carton contains enough medicine for 30 days .
• • Each carton has 2 glass nasal spray bottles .
• • Each nasal spray bottle has enough medicine for 15 days of treatment .
• • Do not open the second nasal spray bottle until you have used the entire first bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Steps for priming TYRVAYA before first Use Step 1 .
Remove the cap and the clip .
Do not throw away the cap or the clip .
The cap and the clip will be placed back on to the nasal applicator after each use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Hold the nasal spray bottle upright and away from your face .
Place 1 finger on each side of the base of the nasal applicator and place your thumb underneath the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Prime the nasal spray bottle by pressing and releasing the nasal applicator 7 times with your thumb and fingers .
You may not see a spray released each time you press and release the nasal applicator .
Spray away from yourself and others .
TYRVAYA is now primed for use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Reprime : If you do not use TYRVAYA for more than 5 days , you will need to reprime the nasal spray bottle with 1 spray before you start using it .
To reprime , hold the nasal spray bottle upright and away from your face and press and release the nasal spray applicator 1 time .
• • Avoid priming the nasal spray bottle more than needed : Priming the nasal spray bottle more than needed will reduce the amount of medicine in the nasal spray bottle .
Steps for using TYRVAYA nasal spray after priming Step 1 .
Blow your nose to clear your nostrils , if needed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Remove the cap and clip .
Do not throw away the cap or the clip .
The cap and the clip will be placed back on to the nasal applicator after each use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Hold the nasal spray bottle upright .
Place 1 finger on each side of the base of the nasal applicator and your thumb underneath the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Tilt your head back slightly without lying down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Insert the nasal applicator into the left or right nostril .
Tilt the nasal applicator and point the tip of the nasal applicator towards the top of the ear on the same side as your nostril .
Do not press the tip of the nasal applicator against the wall of the inside of your nose .
Leave a space between the tip of the nasal applicator and the wall of the inside of your nose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
Place your tongue to the roof of your mouth and breathe gently while pressing and releasing the nasal applicator 1 - time to release a spray into your nostril .
Repeat Steps 5 and 6 to deliver a second spray in the other nostril .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 .
Wipe the nasal applicator with a clean tissue .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 .
Replace the clip and the cap .
Repeat Steps 1 to 8 each time you use TYRVAYA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
TYRVAYA ™ is a trademark of Oyster Point Pharma , Inc .
TYRVAYA ™ and / or the use of TYRVAYA ™ in a method may be covered by one or more patents or patent applications , available at www . oysterpointrx . com / patent - notices .
Manufactured for : Oyster Point Pharma , Inc . , 202 Carnegie Center , Suite 109 , Princeton , NJ 08540 • © 2021 Oyster Point Pharma , Inc .
Issued : 10 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73521 - 030 - 02 tyrvaya ( varenicline ) nasal spray 0 . 03 mg per spray 2 nasal spray bottles for a 30 - day supply [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73521 - 030 - 01 tyrvaya ( varenicline ) nasal spray 0 . 03 mg per spray Contains 60 sprays ( Net Content 4 . 2 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73521 - 030 - 90 tyrvaya ( varenicline ) nasal spray 0 . 03 mg per spray 1 nasal spray bottle for a 15 - day supply [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 73521 - 030 - 90 tyrvaya ( varenicline ) nasal spray 0 . 03 mg per spray Contains 60 sprays ( Net Content 4 . 2 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
