Drug Facts Active Ingredient Non - Nano Uncoated Zinc Oxide 22 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For full protection , apply liberally ( 2 mg / cm 2 of skin ) to all exposed skin 15 minutes before sun exposure , then rub in to reduce whitening effect .
Reapply : • After 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures : • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging • To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • For children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor .
Ingredients * Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , * Cera Alba ( Beeswax ) , * Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Tocopherol ( SunflowerVitamin E ) , * Calendula Officinalis ( Calendula ) Flower Extract , * Anthemis Nobilis ( Roman Chammomile ) Flower Oil , * Hippophae Rhamnoides ( Seabuckthorn ) Fruit Extract .
* = Organic Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sunlight .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 87 mL Tube Label BADGER ® Clear Zinc Sunscreen Cream Unscented & Hypoallergenic Broad Spectrum SPF 40 WATER RESISTANT 80 min Powered by Solar Gluten Free NON GMO Cruelty Free NSF Certified B Corporation REEF FRIENDLY 98 % Organic Ingredients Natural Minerals 87 ml / 2 . 9 fl . oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
