Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine , genital and anal itching .
• Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use : • for the treatment of diaper rash • for external genital itching – if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • If symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and reoccur , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of the reach of children .
• Do not use if pregnant or breastfeeding .
Directions Adults and children 2 years and older : • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching • Adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• Children under 12 years with external anal itching : consult a doctor .
Other information Store at a controlled room temperature 68 ° – 77 ° F ( 20 ° – 25 ° C ) .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua , Aloe Vera Oil , Benzoic Acid , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Stearate , Jojoba Oil , Polysorbate 80 , Oleyl Alcohol , Sorbic Acid , Sorbitan Monooleate 1 % Hydrocortisone Anti - Itch Cream FREE FROM x Petrolatum Parabens Sulfates Mineral Oil Fragrance FRAGRANCE FREE KID FRIENDLY MADE WITH SQUEAKY CLEAN INGREDIENTS FOR HAPPY HEALING SQUEAKY CLEAN FIRST AID Formulated with naturally derived plant - based ingredients ALOE VERA known to help soothe skin JOJOBA OIL known to help moisturize skin HELPS PROVIDE TEMPORARY ITCH RELIEF FROM skin irritation rashes insect bites poison ivy eczema Packaging is recyclable .
Distributed by Welly Health PBC Minneapolis , MN 55402 1 - 833 - BE - WELLY | getwelly . com Product of USA and Canada with globally sourced materials .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
