Active Ingredient ( in each teaspoon ) Sennosides 23 mg from Senna Fruits 75 % and Senna Leaves 75 % Purpose Stimulant laxative Uses For relief of occasional constipation this product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours .
Warnings do not use when abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting are present unless directed by a doctor for more than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative .
These can be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant of breast feeding Ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 6 years and over use one rounded teaspoon per cup .
add cold or lukewarm water , stir .
add honey or lemon to taste .
one cup daily , prefrably in the evening Children under 6 consult a doctor Inactive Ingredients none .
Nature ' s Night Cap for Gentle Relief and Regularity Bekunis works in harmony with your body to relieve simple constipation when needed .
Bekunis stimulates the large bowel during the night to naturally induce smooth , comfortable regularity in the morning .
Bekunis Instant Tea is made exclusively from the fruit of the Senna Plant - regarded the world over as the ultimate natural laxative .
backed up by years of research and highest quality standards .
Bekunis is one of the worlds leading products for natural and dependable relief .
Foil sealed for your protection .
Do not use if inner silver foil seal is broken or missing .
Close container after use and store in a dry , cool place .
Gentle overnight relief of constipation 100 % Natural Senna Tea Bekunis Nature ' s Gentle Laxative Herbal Tea NDC 42982 - 4451 - 2 Gentle overnight relief of constipation 100 % Natural Senna Tea Net Wt .
2 . 83 oz Produced in Germany roha arzneimittel GmbH 28333 Bremen , Germany Distributed by Bioforce USA , Ghent , NY 12075 USA Questions Call 1 - 800 - 641 - 7555 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
