DESCRIPTION E - Z - DISK ™ is an oral solid radiographic contrast agent .
Each tablet contains 700 mg of barium sulfate and is ½ inch in diameter .
The active ingredient is barium sulfate and its structural formula is BaSO4 .
Barium sulfate occurs as a fine , white , odorless , tasteless , bulky powder which is free from grittiness .
Its aqueous suspensions are neutral to litmus .
It is practically insoluble in water , solutions of acids and alkalies , and organic solvents .
Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , corn starch , croscarmellose sodium and confectioner ’ s sugar .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE E - Z - DISK is indicated for use in radiography of the esophagus , for detection of esophageal strictures .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
Barium sulfate is biologically inert and therefore is not absorbed or metabolized by the body , and is eliminated unchanged from the body .
Absorption and Metabolism E - Z - DISK tablets disintegrate within 30 minutes after ingestion , and the fragments are eliminated with the feces without absorption of the barium sulfate .
A brief delay in transit may sometimes be seen in elderly patients , particularly above the hiatus , or at the level of the aortic arch .
In such instances , a sip of water is sufficient to carry the tablet down the esophagus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Barium sulfate products for radiographic procedures should not be used in patients with known gastric or intestinal perforation or hypersensitivity to barium sulfate formulations .
WARNINGS Rarely , severe allergic reactions of an anaphylactoid nature have been reported following administration of barium sulfate contrast agents .
Appropriate facilities and trained personnel should be available for emergency treatment of severe reactions and should remain available for at least 30 to 60 minutes following administration , since delayed reactions can occur .
PRECAUTIONS General Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the requisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , as evidenced by hay fever and eczema , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent , warrant special attention .
Use with caution in patients with complete or nearly complete esophageal or gastric obstruction .
Information For Patients Before administration of this product , patients receiving barium sulfate diagnostic agents should be instructed to : • Inform their physician if they are pregnant .
• Inform their physician if they are allergic to any drugs or food , or if they have had any prior reactions to barium sulfate products or other contrast agents used in x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
• Inform their physician about any other medications they are currently taking .
Usage in Pregnancy Radiation is known to cause harm to the unborn fetus exposed in utero .
Therefore , radiographic procedures should be used only when , in the judgment of the physician , their use is deemed essential to the welfare of the pregnant patient .
Nursing Mothers Barium sulfate products may be used during lactation .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions , such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping accompanying the use of barium sulfate suspensions are infrequent , usually mild , and generally do not occur with this product .
Procedural complications are rare , but may include aspiration pneumonitis , granuloma formation , intravasation , embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes , and fatalities .
It is of the utmost importance to be completely prepared to treat any such occurrence .
ALLERGIC REACTIONS Due to the increased likelihood of allergic reactions in atopic patients , it is important that a complete history of known and suspected allergies as well as allergic - like symptoms , e . g . , rhinitis , bronchial asthma , eczema and urticaria , be obtained prior to any medical procedure utilizing these products .
A mild allergic reaction would most likely include generalized pruritus , erythema or urticaria .
Such reactions will generally respond to an antihistamine such as 50 mg of diphenhydramine , or its equivalent .
In the rarer , more serious reactions , laryngeal edema , bronchospasm or hypotension could develop .
Severe reactions which may require emergency measures are often characterized by peripheral vasodilation , hypotension , reflex tachycardia , dyspnea , agitation , confusion and cyanosis progressing to unconsciousness .
Treatment should be initiated immediately with 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL of 1 : 1000 epinephrine subcutaneously .
If bronchospasm predominates , 0 . 25 to 0 . 50 grams of intravenous aminophylline should be given slowly .
Appropriate vasopressors might be required .
Adrenocorticosteroids , even if given intravenously , exert no significant effect on the acute allergic reactions for a few hours .
The administration of these agents should not be regarded as emergency measures for the treatment of allergic reactions .
All levels of allergic reactions are extremely rare with this product .
Apprehensive patients may develop weakness , pallor , tinnitus , diaphoresis and bradycardia following the administration of any diagnostic agent .
Such reactions are usually non - allergic in nature and are best treated by having the patient lie flat for an additional 10 to 30 minutes under observation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This tablet is most useful in patients experiencing dysphagia , particularly in those whose findings are deemed inconclusive by conventional methods .
The problems associated with obtaining satisfactory films exhibiting complete filling of the pharynx and cricopharyngeal area make for difficult diagnosis in this region .
In such cases , failure of the tablet to freely pass this site may indicate significant esophageal disease as cause of the symptoms , and may warrant further videographic studies .
The patient should be instructed to swallow one tablet intact , with the aid of one or two swallows of water , just prior to fluoroscopic examination .
Note : Using a tablet of known diameter ( ½ inch ) not only illustrates the presence of a significant narrowing of the esophagus , but also provides a simple technique to measure the lumen at the site of the stricture .
The most routinely used esophagoscope has external diameter of 36 French , and thus a tablet of corresponding half - inch diameter was selected .
The actual diameter ( in inches ) of the narrow site is one - half the ratio of its measure value on the film to the measure of the tablet Upon swallowing the tablet , the patient experiences no significant discomfort , and fluid passes around the tablet without difficulty .
HOW SUPPLIED E - Z - DISK ™ is a white tablet with EZEM on one side and 778 on the other side and is supplied in the following manner : Bottles of 100 ½ - inch diameter , flat - sided tablets ; Cat .
No . 778 , NDC 10361 - 778 - 31 Storage Store product at USP Controlled Room Temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Rx Only ( USA ) Manufactured for E - Z - EM , Inc . a subsidiary of Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 Tel : 1 - 516 - 333 - 8230 1 - 800 - 544 - 4624 by Confab Laboratories Inc .
Saint Hubert ( Québec ) Canada J3Y 3X3 rev . 12 / 16 301871 - 01 E - Z - Disk Tablets NDC : 10361 - 778 - 31 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
