DESCRIPTIONThe active ingredient in ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets is ondansetron base , the racemic form of ondansetron , and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one .
It has the following structural formula The empirical formula is C18H19N3O representing a molecular weight of 293 . 4 .
Each 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets for oral administration contains 4 mg ondansetron base .
Each 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets for oral administration contains 8 mg ondansetron base .
Each ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet also contains the inactive ingredients aspartame , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , glycerol distearate , magnesium stearate , mannitol , talc and strawberry flavor .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are orally administered formulation of ondansetron which rapidly disintegrates on the tongue and does not require water to aid dissolution or swallowing .
Does not meet USP Disintegration Time .
This product disintegrates in approximately 60 seconds .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ’ s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT3 receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
In animals , the emetic response to cisplatin can be prevented by pretreatment with an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis , bilateral abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnic nerve section , or pretreatment with a serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
In normal volunteers , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in normal volunteers .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
Pharmacokinetics Ondansetron is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
AUC from a 16 mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food but unaffected by antacids .
Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , reduction in AUC , Cmax , and T ½ of ondansetron was observed . 1 This resulted in a significant increase in clearance .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of ondansetron ' s absorption is greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron levels .
These higher plasma levels may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these gender - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 1 and 2 taken from 2 studies .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
2 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
3 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
4 .
Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONSOndansetron orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGSHypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONS General Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
ADVERSE REACTIONSThe following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron has been unclear in many cases .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and VomitingThe adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 mg ondansetron tablet in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 ) .
Central Nervous System : There have been rare reports consistent with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving ondansetron .
Hepatic : In 723 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials , AST and / or ALT values have been reported to exceed twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes cannot be clearly determined .
There have been reports of liver failure and death in patients with cancer receiving concurrent medications including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Integumentary : Rash has occurred in approximately 1 % of patients receiving ondansetron .
Other : Rare cases of anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina ( chest pain ) , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures have been reported .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron was unclear .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and VomitingThe adverse events reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Postoperative Nausea and VomitingThe adverse events in Table 7 have been reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets at a dosage of 16 mg orally in clinical trials .
With the exception of headache , rates of these events were not significantly different in the ondansetron and placebo groups .
These patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : " Sudden blindness " ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ' duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instructions for Use / Handling Ondansetron Orally Disintegrating Tablets : Do not attempt to push ondansetron disintegrating tablets through the foil backing .
With dry hands , PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet .
IMMEDIATELY place the ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet on top of the tongue where it will dissolve in seconds , then swallow with saliva .
Administration with liquid is not necessary .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron is 24 mg given as three 8 mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
One 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Pediatric Use : For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is one 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
One 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen : The recommended oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets given 3 times a day .
For total body irradiation , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets , in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Impaired Renal Function : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function : In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
HOW SUPPLIEDOndansetron orally disintegrating tablets , 4 mg ( as 4 mg ondansetron base ) are white to off white , oval , uncoated tablets debossed with " 240 " on one side , plain on the other side .
Bottle pack of 30 tablets with Child Resistant Cap - ( NDC 62756 - 240 - 83 ) Unit dose packs of 30 tablets ( NDC 62756 - 240 - 64 ) .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets , 8 mg ( as 8 mg ondansetron base ) are white to off white , oval , uncoated tablets debossed with " 241 " on one side , plain on the other side .
Bottle pack of 30 tablets with Child Resistant Cap - ( NDC 62756 - 356 - 83 ) Unit dose packs of 30 tablets ( NDC 62756 - 356 - 64 ) Unit dose packs of 10 tablets ( NDC 62756 - 356 - 66 ) Information for Patients Phenylketonurics : Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 4 mg and 8 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains less than 0 . 04 mg phenylalanine .
Patients should be instructed not to remove ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The tablet should not be pushed through the foil .
With dry hands , the blister backing should be peeled completely off the blister .
The tablet should be gently removed and immediately placed on the tongue to dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
