Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • For the treatment of most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • Relieves itching , scaling , cracking , burning , redness , soreness , irritation , discomfort and chafing associated with jock itch or itching , burning feet Warnings For external use only Do not use • on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 2 weeks when used for the treatment of jock itch • there is no improvement within 4 weeks when used for athlete ’ s foot or ringworm Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
Apply a thin layer of cream over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • Supervise children in the use of this product • For athlete ’ s foot : Pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks • For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • Do not use if seal on the tube is damaged or is not visible .
To open , unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal • Store at room temperature • Preserve in tight containers • See crimp of tube or carton for Lot Number and Expiry Date Inactive ingredients Cetostearyl Alcohol , Macrogol Cetostearyl Ether , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , White Petrolatum Questions or comments ?
718 - 502 - 6610 between 9 am to 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Cures Most Athlete ' s Foot Compared to the active ingredient in Lotrimin ® AF * Relieves Itching and Burning Sensation .
Relieves from Cracking and Scaling .
Greaseless and non - staining .
* This product is not affiliated with , manufactured by , or produced by the makers or owners of Lotrimin ® AF Distributed by : EzriCare , LLC Lakewood , NJ www . EzriCare . com Made in India Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
