Rx Only DESCRIPTION Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP is a sterile solution of cyanocobalamin for intramuscular or subcutaneous injection .
Each mL contains 1000 mcg cyanocobalamin .
Each vial also contains Sodium Chloride , 0 . 9 % .
Benzyl Alcohol , 1 . 5 % , is present as a preservative and Water for Injection q . s . Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may have been added during manufacture to adjust the pH ( range 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) .
Cyanocobalamin appears as dark red crystals or as an amorphous or crystalline red powder .
It is very hygroscopic in the anhydrous form , and sparingly soluble in water ( 1 : 80 ) .
It is stable to autoclaving for short periods at 121 ° C .
The vitamin B12 coenzymes are very unstable in light .
The chemical name is 5 , 6 - dimethyl - benzimidazolyl cyanocobamide ; the molecular formula is C63H88CoN14O14P .
The cobalt content is 4 . 34 % .
The molecular weight is 1355 . 39 .
The structural formula is represented below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vitamin B12 is essential to growth , cell reproduction , hematopoiesis , and nucleoprotein and myelin synthesis .
Cyanocobalamin is quantitatively and rapidly absorbed from intramuscular and subcutaneous sites of injection ; the plasma level of the compound reaches its peak within 1 hour after intramuscular injection .
Absorbed vitamin B12 is transported via specific B12 binding proteins , transcobalamin I and II to the various tissues .
The liver is the main organ for vitamin B12 storage .
Within 48 hours after injection of 100 or 1000 mcg of vitamin B12 , 50 to 98 % of the injected dose may appear in the urine .
The major portion is excreted within the first eight hours .
Intravenous administration results in even more rapid excretion with little opportunity for liver storage .
Gastrointestinal absorption of vitamin B12 depends on the presence of sufficient intrinsic factor and calcium ions .
Intrinsic factor deficiency causes pernicious anemia , which may be associated with subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord .
Prompt parenteral administration of vitamin B12 prevents progression of neurologic damage .
The average diet supplies about 5 to 15 mcg / day of vitamin B12 in a protein - bound form that is available for absorption after normal digestion .
Vitamin B12 is not present in foods of plant origin , but is abundant in foods of animal origin .
In people with normal absorption , deficiencies have been reported only in strict vegetarians who consume no products of animal origin ( including no milk products or eggs ) .
Vitamin B12 is bound to intrinsic factor during transit through the stomach ; separation occurs in the terminal ileum in the presence of calcium , and vitamin B12 enters the mucosal cell for absorption .
It is then transported by the transcobalamin binding proteins .
A small amount ( approximately 1 % of the total amount ingested ) is absorbed by simple diffusion , but this mechanism is adequate only with very large doses .
Oral absorption is considered too undependable to rely on in patients with pernicious anemia or other conditions resulting in malabsorption of vitamin B12 .
Cyanocobalamin is the most widely used form of vitamin B12 , and has hematopoietic activity apparently identical to that of the antianemia factor in purified liver extract .
Hydroxycobalamin is equally as effective as cyanocobalamin , and they share the cobalamin molecular structure .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyanocobalamin is indicated for vitamin B12 deficiencies due to malabsorption which may be associated with the following conditions : • Addisonian ( pernicious ) anemia • Gastrointestinal pathology , dysfunction , or surgery , including gluten enteropathy or sprue , small bowel bacteria overgrowth , total or partial gastrectomy • Fish tapeworm infestation • Malignancy of pancreas or bowel • Folic acid deficiency It may be possible to treat the underlying disease by surgical correction of anatomic lesions leading to small bowel bacterial overgrowth , expulsion of fish tapeworm , discontinuation of drugs leading to vitamin malabsorption ( see Drug Interactions ) , use of a gluten - free diet in nontropical sprue , or administration of antibiotics in tropical sprue .
Such measures remove the need for long - term administration of cyanocobalamin .
Requirements of vitamin B12 in excess of normal ( due to pregnancy , thyrotoxicosis , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , malignancy , hepatic and renal disease ) can usually be met with oral supplementation .
Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP is also suitable for the vitamin B12 absorption test ( Schilling test ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sensitivity to cobalt and / or vitamin B12 is a contraindication .
WARNINGS Patients with early Leber ' s disease ( hereditary optic nerve atrophy ) who were treated with cyanocobalamin suffered severe and swift optic atrophy .
Hypokalemia and sudden death may occur in severe megaloblastic anemia which is treated intensely .
Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported after parenteral vitamin B12 administration .
An intradermal test dose is recommended before Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP is administered to patients suspected of being sensitive to this drug .
This product contains Benzyl Alcohol .
Benzyl Alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS General Precautions Vitamin B12 deficiency that is allowed to progress for longer than 3 months may produce permanent degenerative lesions of the spinal cord .
Doses of folic acid greater than 0 . 1 mg per day may result in hematologic remission in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency .
Neurologic manifestations will not be prevented with folic acid , and if not treated with vitamin B12 , irreversible damage will result .
Doses of cyanocobalamin exceeding 10 mcg daily may produce hematologic response in patients with folate deficiency .
Indiscriminate administration may mask the true diagnosis .
Information for Patients Patients with pernicious anemia should be informed that they will require monthly injections of vitamin B12 for the remainder of their lives .
Failure to do so will result in return of the anemia and in development of incapacitating and irreversible damage to the nerves of the spinal cord .
Also , patients should be warned about the danger of taking folic acid in place of vitamin B12 , because the former may prevent anemia but allow progression of subacute combined degeneration .
A vegetarian diet which contains no animal products ( including milk products or eggs ) does not supply any vitamin B12 .
Patients following such a diet , should be advised to take oral vitamin B12 regularly .
The need for vitamin B12 is increased by pregnancy and lactation .
Deficiency has been recognized in infants of vegetarian mothers who were breast fed , even though the mothers had no symptoms of deficiency at the time .
Laboratory Tests During the initial treatment of patients with pernicious anemia , serum potassium must be observed closely the first 48 hours and potassium replaced if necessary .
Hematocrit , reticulocyte count , vitamin B12 , folate and iron levels should be obtained prior to treatment .
Hematocrit and reticulocyte counts should be repeated daily from the fifth to seventh days of therapy and then frequently until the hematocrit is normal .
If folate levels are low , folic acid should also be administered .
If reticulocytes have not increased after treatment or if reticulocyte counts do not continue at least twice normal as long as the hematocrit is less than 35 % , diagnosis or treatment should be reevaluated .
Repeat determinations of iron and folic acid may reveal a complicating illness that might inhibit the response of the marrow .
Patients with pernicious anemia have about 3 times the incidence of carcinoma of the stomach as the general population , so appropriate tests for this condition should be carried out when indicated .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Persons taking most antibiotics , methotrexate and pyrimethamine invalidate folic acid and vitamin B12 diagnostic blood assays .
Colchicine , para - aminosalicylic acid and heavy alcohol intake for longer than 2 weeks may produce malabsorption of vitamin B12 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been done .
There is no evidence from long - term use in patients with pernicious anemia that cyanocobalamin is carcinogenic .
Pernicious anemia is associated with an increased incidence of carcinoma of the stomach , but this is believed to be related to the underlying pathology and not to treatment with cyanocobalamin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Adequate and well - controlled studies have not been done in pregnant women .
However , vitamin B12 is an essential vitamin and requirements are increased during pregnancy .
Amounts of vitamin B12 that are recommended by the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Science - National Research Council for pregnant women ( 4 mcg daily ) should be consumed during pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers Vitamin B12 is known to be excreted in human milk .
Amounts of vitamin B12 that are recommended by the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Science - National Research Council for lactating women ( 4 mcg daily ) should be consumed during lactation .
Pediatric Use Intake in children should be in the amount ( 0 . 5 to 3 mcg daily ) recommended by the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Science - National Research Council .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized : Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B12 ( see WARNINGS ) .
Cardiovascular : Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment ; peripheral vascular thrombosis .
Hematological : Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal : Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological : Itching ; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous : Feeling of swelling of entire body To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Vitruvias Therapeutics at 1 - 844 - 451 - 5944 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE No overdosage has been reported with this drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Avoid using the intravenous route .
Use of this product intravenously will result in almost all of the vitamin being lost in the urine .
Pernicious Anemia Parenteral vitamin B12 is the recommended treatment and will be required for the remainder of the patient ' s life .
The oral form is not dependable .
A dose of 100 mcg daily for 6 or 7 days should be administered by intramuscular or deep subcutaneous injection .
If there is clinical improvement and if a reticulocyte response is observed , the same amount may be given on alternate days for seven doses , then every 3 to 4 days for another 2 to 3 weeks .
By this time hematologic values should have become normal .
This regimen should be followed by 100 mcg monthly for life .
Folic acid should be administered concomitantly if needed .
Patients with Normal Intestinal Absorption Where the oral route is not deemed adequate , initial treatment similar to that for patients with pernicious anemia may be indicated depending on the severity of the deficiency .
Chronic treatment should be with an oral B12 preparation .
If other vitamin deficiencies are present , they should be treated .
Schilling Test The flushing dose is 1000 mcg .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP 1000 mcg / mL NDC 72843 - 487 - 10 1 mL Vial Boxes of 10 NDC 72843 - 487 - 25 1 mL Vial Boxes of 25 NDC 72843 - 497 - 99 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Boxes of 10 NDC 72843 - 507 - 01 30 mL Multiple Dose Vial Boxes of 1 NDC 72843 - 507 - 05 30 mL Multiple Dose Vial Boxes of 5 NDC 72843 - 507 - 10 30 mL Multiple Dose Vial Boxes of 10 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Product of France Manufactured By : UBI Pharma , Inc .
Hsin Chu Hsien 303036 , Taiwan Manufactured for : Vitruvias Therapeutics Auburn , Alabama 36830 Revised : 10 / 2021 To request additional information or if you have questions concerning this drug please phone Vitruvias Therapeutics at 1 - 844 - 451 - 5944 .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA 1088 .
L4878 - 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 mL Vial Box Label Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP 1000 mcg / mL NDC 72843 - 487 - 10 10 x 1 mL VIALS For Intramuscular or Subcutaneous Use Only Each mL contains : Cyanocobalamin 1000 mcg , Sodium Chloride 0 . 9 % , Benzyl Alcohol 1 . 5 % , Water for Injection q . s . pH ( range 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
WARNING : PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
Rx Only Product of France Mfd .
by : UBI Pharma , Inc .
Taiwan Mfd .
for : Vitruvias Therapeutics Auburn , AL 36830 Rev . 11 / 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Box Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP 10 , 000 mcg / 10 mL ( 1 , 000 mcg / mL ) NDC 72843 - 497 - 99 10 x 10 mL MULTIPLE DOSE VIALS For Intramuscular or Subcutaneous Use Only Each mL contains : Cyanocobalamin 1000 mcg , Benzyl Alcohol 1 . 5 % , Sodium Chloride 0 . 9 % , Water for Injection q . s . pH ( range 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
WARNING : PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
Product of France Rx Only Rev . 03 / 19 Mfd .
by : UBI Pharma , Inc .
Taiwan Mfd .
for : Vitruvias Therapeutics Auburn , AL 36830 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Vial Box Cyanocobalamin Injection , USP 30 , 000 mcg / 30 mL ( 1 , 000 mcg / mL ) NDC 72843 - 507 - 05 5 x 30 mL MULTIPLE DOSE VIALS For Intramuscular or Subcutaneous Use Only Each mL contains : Cyanocobalamin 1000 mcg , Benzyl Alcohol 1 . 5 % , Sodium Chloride 0 . 9 % , Water for Injection q . s . pH ( range 4 . 5 - 7 . 0 ) adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide .
WARNING : PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Directions for Use : See Package Insert .
Product of France Rx Only Rev . 11 / 20 Mfd .
by : UBI Pharma , Inc .
Taiwan Mfd .
for : Vitruvias Therapeutics Auburn , AL 36830 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
