WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK Cardiovascular Risk • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• PENNSAID is contraindicated in the perioperative setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : CARDIOVASCULAR AND GASTROINTESTINAL RISK See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Cardiovascular Risk • Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk .
( 5 . 1 ) • PENNSAID is contraindicated for the treatment of perioperative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 ) Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs , including PENNSAID , cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events .
( 5 . 2 ) 1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PENNSAID is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee ( s ) .
PENNSAID is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee ( s ) , the recommended dose is 40 drops on each painful knee , 4 times a day .
( 2 ) • Apply PENNSAID to clean , dry skin .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dispense PENNSAID 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee .
Spread PENNSAID evenly around front , back and sides of the knee .
Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution .
( 2 . 1 ) • Wash hands completely after administering the product .
• Wait until the area is completely dry before covering with clothing or applying sunscreen , insect repellent , cosmetics , topical medications , or other substances .
• Do not get PENNSAID in your eyes , nose or mouth .
2 . 1 General Instructions For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee ( s ) , the recommended dose is 40 drops per knee , 4 times a day .
Apply PENNSAID to clean , dry skin .
To avoid spillage , dispense PENNSAID 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee .
Spread PENNSAID evenly around front , back and sides of the knee .
Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution .
To treat the other knee , if symptomatic , repeat the procedure .
Application of PENNSAID in an amount exceeding or less than the recommended dose has not been studied and is therefore not recommended .
2 . 2 Special Precautions • Avoid showering / bathing for at least 30 minutes after the application of PENNSAID to the treated knee .
• Wash and dry hands after use .
• Do not apply PENNSAID to open wounds .
• Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucous membranes .
• Do not apply external heat and / or occlusive dressings to treated knees .
• Avoid wearing clothing over the PENNSAID - treated knee ( s ) until the treated knee is dry .
• Protect the treated knee ( s ) from sunlight .
• Wait until the treated area is dry before applying sunscreen , insect repellant , lotion , moisturizer , cosmetics , or other topical medication to the same knee you have just treated with PENNSAID .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1 . 5 % w / w topical solution • 1 . 5 % w / w topical solution ( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diclofenac sodium or any other component of PENNSAID .
PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
Severe , rarely fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 10 ) ] .
PENNSAID is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac sodium .
( 4 ) • History of asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs .
( 4 ) • Use in the perioperative period of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery .
( 4 ) 5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment .
Use the lowest effective dose of PENNSAID in patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease .
( 5 . 1 ) • NSAIDs can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including inflammation , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation .
Prescribe PENNSAID with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
( 5 . 2 ) • Elevation of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with NSAIDs .
Discontinue PENNSAID immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen .
( 5 . 3 ) • Hypertension can occur with NSAID treatment .
Monitor blood pressure closely with PENNSAID treatment .
( 5 . 4 ) • Use PENNSAID with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
( 5 . 5 ) • Long - term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Use PENNSAID with caution in patients at greatest risk of this reaction , including the elderly , those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , and those taking diuretics and ACE - inhibitors .
( 5 . 6 ) • Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to PENNSAID .
( 5 . 7 ) • NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
( 5 . 8 ) • Not for use during pregnancy .
( 5 . 9 ) • Do not administer to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
( 5 . 10 ) • Avoid exposure of treated knee ( s ) to natural or artificial sunlight .
( 5 . 11 ) • Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa .
( 5 . 12 ) • Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs .
( 5 . 13 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several oral COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , including PENNSAID and COX - 2 selective and nonselective orally administered NSAIDs , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Inform patients about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
Two large , controlled , clinical trials of an orally administered COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and NSAIDs , such as diclofenac , does increase the risk of serious GI events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of GI Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation NSAIDs , including diclofenac , can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with NSAIDs .
Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic .
Upper GI ulcers , gross bleeding , or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1 % of patients treated for 3 to 6 months , and in about 2 to 4 % of patients treated for one year .
These trends continue with longer duration of use , increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy .
However , even short - term therapy is not without risk .
Prescribe NSAIDs , including PENNSAID , with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and / or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 - fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors .
Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore , use special care when treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration .
Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during diclofenac therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected .
For high - risk patients , consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs .
5 . 3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations ( less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ ULN ] range ) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15 % of oral diclofenac - treated patients in clinical trials of indications other than acute pain .
Of the markers of hepatic function , ALT ( SGPT ) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury .
In clinical trials of an oral diclofenac - misoprostol combination product , meaningful elevations ( i . e . , more than 3 times the ULN ) of AST ( SGOT ) occurred in about 2 % of approximately 5 , 700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment ( ALT was not measured in all studies ) .
In an open - label , controlled trial of 3 , 700 patients treated for 2 to 6 months , patients with oral diclofenac were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1 , 200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks .
Meaningful elevations of ALT and / or AST occurred in about 4 % of the 3 , 700 patients and included marked elevations ( > 8 times the ULN ) in about 1 % of the 3 , 700 patients .
In this open - label study , a higher incidence of borderline ( less than 3 times the ULN ) , moderate ( 3 to 8 times the ULN ) , and marked ( > 8 times the ULN ) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs .
Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis .
Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic .
Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations .
In postmarketing reports , cases of drug - induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month , and in some cases , the first 2 months of NSAID therapy .
Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions , including liver necrosis , jaundice , fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice , and liver failure .
Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation .
In a European retrospective population - based , case - controlled study , 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug - induced liver injury with current use compared with non - use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4 - fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury .
In this particular study , based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac , the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender , doses of 150 mg or more , and duration of use for more then 90 days .
Measure transaminases ( ALT and AST ) periodically in patients receiving long - term therapy with diclofenac , because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms .
The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known .
Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences , monitor transaminases within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac .
However , severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac .
If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , if clinical signs and / or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( e . g . , eosinophilia , rash , abdominal pain , diarrhea , dark urine , etc . ) , discontinue PENNSAID immediately .
To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements , inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , diarrhea , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and " flulike " symptoms ) , and the appropriate action to take if these signs and symptoms appear .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver - related event in patients treated with PENNSAID , use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible .
Exercise caution when prescribing PENNSAID with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic ( e . g . , acetaminophen , certain antibiotics , antiepileptics ) .
Caution patients to avoid taking unprescribed acetaminophen while using PENNSAID .
5 . 4 Hypertension NSAIDs , including diclofenac , can lead to new onset or worsening of preexisting hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Use NSAIDs , including PENNSAID , with caution in patients with hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure ( BP ) closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Patients taking ACE - inhibitors , thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
5 . 5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs , including PENNSAID .
Use PENNSAID with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
5 . 6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with PENNSAID in patients with considerable dehydration .
Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of an NSAID may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and ACE - inhibitors , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease .
Therefore , treatment with PENNSAID is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease .
If PENNSAID therapy is initiated , close monitoring of the patient ' s renal function is advisable .
5 . 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to PENNSAID .
Do not prescribe PENNSAID to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs .
5 . 8 Skin Reactions Do not apply PENNSAID to open skin wounds , infections , inflammations , or exfoliative dermatitis , as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug .
NSAIDs , including PENNSAID , can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
These serious events may occur without warning .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations , and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other signs of hypersensitivity .
5 . 9 Pregnancy PENNSAID should not be used by pregnant or nursing women or those intending to become pregnant .
5 . 10 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm , which can be fatal .
Since cross - reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , do not administer PENNSAID to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
5 . 11 Sun Exposure Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee ( s ) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light - induced skin tumors .
The potential effects of PENNSAID on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known .
5 . 12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa .
Advise patients that if eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour .
5 . 13 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with PENNSAID resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage , more frequent abnormal creatinine , urea and hemoglobin .
Therefore , do not use combination therapy with PENNSAID and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations .
5 . 14 Corticosteroid Treatment PENNSAID cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency .
Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to exacerbation of corticosteroid - response illness .
For patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy , taper slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids .
5 . 15 Inflammation The pharmacological activity of PENNSAID in reducing inflammation , and possibly fever , may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious , painful conditions .
5 . 16 Hematological Effects The effects of PENNSAID on platelet function were studied in 10 healthy subjects administered 80 drops four times a day for 7 days .
There was no significant change in platelet aggregation following one week of treatment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs .
This may be due to fluid retention , occult or gross GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Check hemoglobin or hematocrit of patients on PENNSAID if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss .
NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration and reversible .
Carefully monitor patients receiving PENNSAID who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants .
5 . 17 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms in patients taking NSAIDs , monitor patients for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding .
Check CBC and a chemistry profile periodically in patients on long - term treatment with NSAIDs .
Discontinue PENNSAID if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events with PENNSAID are application site reactions .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mallinckrodt Brand Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 778 - 7898 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to PENNSAID of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks ( mean duration of 49 days ) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials , as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open - label study , including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months , and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months .
The population mean age was approximately 60 years , 89 % of patients were Caucasians , 64 % were females , and all patients had primary osteoarthritis .
The most common adverse events with PENNSAID were application site skin reactions .
These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies .
Application site reactions : In controlled trials , the most common treatment - related adverse events in patients receiving PENNSAID were application site skin reactions .
Application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following : dryness , erythema , induration , vesicles , paresthesia , pruritus , vasodilation , acne , and urticaria .
The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin ( 32 % ) , contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration ( 9 % ) , contact dermatitis with vesicles ( 2 % ) and pruritus ( 4 % ) .
In one controlled trial , a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles ( 4 % ) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of PENNSAID and oral diclofenac .
In the open label uncontrolled long - term safety study , contact dermatitis occurred in 13 % and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10 % of patients , generally within the first 6 months of exposure , leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14 % .
Adverse events common to the NSAID class : In controlled trials , subjects treated with PENNSAID experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo ( constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , nausea , flatulence , abdominal pain , edema ; see Table 1 ) .
The combination of PENNSAID and oral diclofenac , compared to oral diclofenac alone , resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage ( 3 % vs . less than 1 % ) , and more frequent abnormal creatinine ( 12 % vs . 7 % ) , urea ( 20 % vs . 12 % ) , and hemoglobin ( 13 % vs . 9 % ) , but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases .
Table 1 lists all adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients receiving PENNSAID , where the rate in the PENNSAID group exceeded placebo , from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis .
Since these trials were of different durations , these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients treated with PENNSAID ® in placebo and oral diclofenac - controlled trials .
† Preferred Term according to COSTART Treatment Group : PENNSAID ® N = 911 Topical Placebo N = 332 Adverse Reaction † N ( % ) N ( % ) Dry Skin ( Application Site ) 292 ( 32 ) 17 ( 5 ) Contact Dermatitis ( Application Site ) 83 ( 9 ) 6 ( 2 ) Dyspepsia 72 ( 8 ) 13 ( 4 ) Abdominal Pain 54 ( 6 ) 10 ( 3 ) Flatulence 35 ( 4 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Pruritus ( Application Site ) 34 ( 4 ) 7 ( 2 ) Diarrhea 33 ( 4 ) 7 ( 2 ) Nausea 33 ( 4 ) 3 ( 1 ) Pharyngitis 40 ( 4 ) 13 ( 4 ) Constipation 29 ( 3 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Edema 26 ( 3 ) 0 Rash ( Non - Application Site ) 25 ( 3 ) 5 ( 2 ) Infection 25 ( 3 ) 8 ( 2 ) Ecchymosis 19 ( 2 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Dry Skin ( Non - Application Site ) 19 ( 2 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Contact Dermatitis , vesicles ( Application Site ) 18 ( 2 ) 0 Paresthesia ( Non - Application Site ) 14 ( 2 ) 3 ( < 1 ) Accidental Injury 22 ( 2 ) 7 ( 2 ) Pruritus ( Non - Application Site ) 15 ( 2 ) 2 ( < 1 ) Sinusitis 10 ( 1 ) 2 ( < 1 ) Halitosis 11 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Application Site Reaction ( not otherwise specified ) 11 ( 1 ) 3 ( < 1 ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In non - US postmarketing surveillance , the following adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of PENNSAID .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : abdominal pain , accidental injury , allergic reaction , asthenia , back pain , body odor , chest pain , edema , face edema , halitosis , headache , lack of drug effect , neck rigidity , pain Cardiovascular : palpitation , cardiovascular disorder Digestive : diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , gastroenteritis , decreased appetite , mouth ulceration , nausea , rectal hemorrhage , ulcerative stomatitis Metabolic and Nutritional : creatinine increased Musculoskeletal : leg cramps , myalgia Nervous : depression , dizziness , drowsiness , lethargy , paresthesia , paresthesia at application site Respiratory : asthma , dyspnea , laryngismus , laryngitis , pharyngitis Skin and Appendages : At the Application Site : contact dermatitis , contact dermatitis with vesicles , dry skin , pruritus , rash ; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions : eczema , rash , pruritus , skin discoloration , urticaria Special Senses : abnormal vision , blurred vision , cataract , ear pain , eye disorder , eye pain , taste perversion 7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions with the use of PENNSAID have not been studied .
The following drug interactions [ sections 7 . 1 to 7 . 7 ] are noted for oral diclofenac sodium .
• Concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GI bleeding .
( 7 . 1 ) • Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin , the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced , although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
7 . 3 ACE - Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors .
Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE - inhibitors .
7 . 4 Diuretics Clinical studies , as well as postmarketing observations , have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
The response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs , observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] , as well as to assure diuretic efficacy .
7 . 5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID .
Thus , when NSAIDs , including diclofenac , and lithium are administered concurrently , observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
7 . 6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Use caution when NSAIDs , including diclofenac , are administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
7 . 7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac , like other NSAIDs , may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs .
Therefore , concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine ’ s nephrotoxicity .
Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine .
7 . 8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with PENNSAID has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac , compared to oral diclofenac alone , resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage ( 3 % vs . less than 1 % ) , and more frequent abnormal creatinine ( 12 % vs . 7 % ) , urea ( 20 % vs . 12 % ) and hemoglobin ( 13 % vs . 9 % ) .
Therefore , do not use combination therapy with PENNSAID and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations .
7 . 9 Topical Treatments Instruct patients that before applying sunscreen , insect repellant , lotion , moisturizer , cosmetics , or other topical medication to the same skin surface of the knee treated with PENNSAID , they must wait until the treated area is completely dry .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Not recommended for use during pregnancy .
( 8 . 1 ) • Nursing Mothers : Use with caution , as it is not known if diclofenac is excreted in human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C prior to 30 weeks gestation ; Category D starting 30 weeks gestation .
Teratogenic Effects : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of PENNSAID in pregnant women .
PENNSAID should not be used by pregnant women as its safe use has not been adequately determined and starting at 30 weeks gestation , diclofenac and other NSAIDs should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur .
Developmental studies in animals demonstrated that diclofenac sodium administration did not produce teratogenicity despite the induction of maternal toxicity and fetal toxicity in mice at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 6 - fold the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 154 mg / day based on body surface area comparison ) , and in rats and rabbits at doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 6 - fold and 1 . 3 - fold the MRHD , respectively ) .
Published reproductive and developmental studies of dimethyl sulfoxide ( DMSO , the solvent used in PENNSAID ) are equivocal as to potential teratogenicity .
Nonteratogenic Effects : In rats , maternally toxic doses of diclofenac were associated with dystocia , prolonged gestation , reduced fetal weights and growth , and reduced fetal survival .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of PENNSAID on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
In rat studies maternal exposure to diclofenac , as with other NSAID drugs , known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , increased the incidence of dystocia , delayed parturition , and decreased offspring survival .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk ; however , there is a case report in the literature indicating that diclofenac can be detected at low levels in breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from PENNSAID , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 911 patients treated with PENNSAID in seven controlled , Phase 3 clinical trials , 444 subjects were 65 years of age and over .
There was no age - related difference in the incidence of adverse events .
Of the 793 patients treated with PENNSAID in one open - labeled safety trial , 334 subjects were 65 years of age and over including 107 subjects 75 and over .
There was no difference in the incidence of adverse events with long - term exposure to PENNSAID for this elderly population .
As with any NSAID , use caution in treating the elderly ( 65 years and older ) and it may be useful to monitor renal function since they are more likely to have decreased baseline renal function .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no known experiences of overdose with PENNSAID .
Symptoms following acute NSAID overdose are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression and coma may occur , but are rare .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of NSAIDs , and may occur following an overdose .
Manage patients using symptomatic and supportive care following an NSAID overdose .
There are no specific antidotes .
Emesis is not recommended due to a possibility of aspiration and subsequent respiratory irritation by DMSO contained in PENNSAID .
Activated charcoal ( 60 to 100 g in adults , 1 to 2 g / kg in children ) and / or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms or following a large overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
Forced diuresis , alkalinization of urine , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
For additional information about overdose treatment , call a poison control center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
11 .
DESCRIPTION PENNSAID is a clear , colorless to faintly pink - orange solution for topical application .
PENNSAID contains 1 . 5 % w / w diclofenac sodium , a benzeneacetic acid derivative that is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , designated chemically as 2 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino ] - benzeneacetic acid , monosodium salt .
The molecular weight is 318 . 14 .
Its molecular formula is C14H10Cl2NNaO2 and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 1 mL of solution contains 16 . 05 mg of diclofenac sodium .
In addition , PENNSAID contains the following inactive ingredients : dimethyl sulfoxide USP ( DMSO , 45 . 5 % w / w ) , propylene glycol , alcohol , glycerin and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of diclofenac is similar to that of other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Diclofenac inhibits the enzyme , cyclooxygenase ( COX ) , an early component of the arachidonic acid cascade , resulting in the reduced formation of prostaglandins , thromboxanes and prostacylin .
It is not completely understood how reduced synthesis of these compounds results in therapeutic efficacy .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Diclofenac , the active component of PENNSAID has anti - inflammatory , anti - nociception , and antipyretic effects .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After topical administration to healthy human volunteers of single and multiple maximum doses of PENNSAID , 40 drops ( approximately 1 . 2 mL ) to each knee ( 80 drops total dose ) , the following diclofenac pharmacokinetic parameters were obtained : ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Single - Dose ( 80 drops ) and Multiple Dose ( 80 drops four times daily for 7 days ) PENNSAID Pharmacokinetic Parameters1Apparent total body clearance Pharmacokinetic Parameters Diclofenac sodium Normal Adults [ N = 18 ] ( Age : 18 - 55 years ) Normal Adults [ N = 19 ] ( Age : 18 - 55 years ) Single Dose Multiple Dose Four times daily for 7 days AUC0 - t 177 . 5 ± 72 . 6 ng . h / mL 695 . 4 ± 348 . 9 ng . h / mL AUC0 - inf 196 . 3 ± 68 . 5 ng . h / mL 745 . 2 ± 374 . 7 ng . h / mL Plasma Cmax 8 . 1 ± 5 . 9 ng / mL 19 . 4 ± 9 . 3 ng / mL Plasma Tmax ( h ) 11 . 0 ± 6 . 4 4 . 0 ± 6 . 5 Plasma t1 / 2 ( h ) 36 . 7 ± 20 . 8 79 . 0 ± 38 . 1 Kel ( h - 1 ) 0 . 024 ± 0 . 010 0 . 011 ± 0 . 004 CL / F ( L / h ) 244 . 7 ± 84 . 71 -- Absorption Diclofenac systemic exposure from PENNSAID application ( 4 times daily for 1 week ) was approximately 1 / 3 of the diclofenac systemic exposure from the Solaraze ( diclofenac topical gel ) application ( twice daily for 4 weeks ) .
Distribution Diclofenac is more than 99 % bound to human serum proteins , primarily to albumin .
Diclofenac diffuses into and out of the synovial fluid .
Diffusion into the joint occurs when plasma levels are higher than those in the synovial fluid , after which the process reverses and synovial fluid levels are higher than plasma levels .
It is not known whether diffusion into the joint plays a role in the effectiveness of diclofenac .
Metabolism Five diclofenac metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
The metabolites include 4 ' - hydroxy - , 5 - hydroxy - , 3 ' - hydroxy - , 4 ' , 5 - dihydroxy - and 3 ' - hydroxy - 4 ' - methoxy diclofenac .
The major diclofenac metabolite , 4 ' - hydroxy - diclofenac , has very weak pharmacologic activity .
The formation of 4 ' - hydroxy diclofenac is primarily mediated by CPY2C9 .
Both diclofenac and its oxidative metabolites undergo glucuronidation or sulfation followed by biliary excretion .
Acylglucuronidation mediated by UGT2B7 and oxidation mediated by CPY2C8 may also play a role in diclofenac metabolism .
CYP3A4 is responsible for the formation of minor metabolites , 5 - hydroxy and 3 ' - hydroxy - diclofenac .
Excretion Diclofenac is eliminated through metabolism and subsequent urinary and biliary excretion of the glucuronide and the sulfate conjugates of the metabolites .
Little or no free unchanged diclofenac is excreted in the urine .
Special Populations Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of PENNSAID has not been investigated in pediatric patients .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
12 . 4 Platelets The effect of PENNSAID on platelet function was evaluated in 10 healthy human volunteers as a sub - study of a multiple - dose pharmacokinetic study [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Average ( range ) platelet aggregation time following stimulation with adenosine diphosphate , collagen , epinephrine and arachidonic acid was 101 . 3 % ( 73 . 3 to 128 . 1 ) , 99 . 8 % ( 69 . 6 to 112 . 9 ) , 109 . 9 % ( 66 . 2 to 178 . 1 ) and 99 . 0 % ( 15 . 5 to 126 . 6 ) of baseline value , respectively .
These results indicate that there was no effect on platelet aggregation after application of the maximum clinical dose for 7 days [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats administered diclofenac sodium as a dietary constituent for 2 years resulted in no significant increases in tumor incidence at doses up to 2 mg / kg / day corresponding to approximately 0 . 35 - and 0 . 7 - fold ( mouse and rat , respectively ) of the maximum recommended human topical dose ( MRHD ) of PENNSAID ( based on apparent bioavailability and body surface area comparison ) .
In a dermal carcinogenicity study conducted in albino mice , daily topical applications of diclofenac sodium for two years at concentrations up to 0 . 035 % diclofenac sodium ( a 43 - fold lower diclofenac sodium concentration than present in PENNSAID ) did not increase neoplasm incidence .
In a photococarcinogenicity study conducted in hairless mice , topical application of diclofenac sodium at doses up to 0 . 035 % diclofenac sodium ( a 43 - fold lower diclofenac sodium concentration than present in PENNSAID ) resulted in an earlier median time of onset of tumors .
Mutagenesis : Diclofenac was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a battery of genotoxicity tests that included the bacterial reverse mutation assay , in vitro mouse lymphoma point mutation assay , chromosomal aberration studies in Chinese hamster ovarian cells in vitro , and in vivo rat chromosomal aberration assay of bone marrow cells .
Impairment of Fertility : Fertility studies have not been conducted with PENNSAID .
Diclofenac sodium administered to male and female rats at doses up to 4 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 4 - fold of the MRHD of PENNSAID based on apparent bioavailability and body surface area comparison ) did not affect fertility .
Studies have not been conducted to determine the safety of DMSO on fertility .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Ocular Effects No adverse effects were observed using indirect ophthalmoscopy after multiple - daily dermal application to rats for 26 weeks and minipigs for 52 weeks of DMSO at twice the concentration found in PENNSAID .
Published studies of dermal or oral administration of DMSO to rabbits , dogs and pigs described refractive changes of lens curvature and cortical fibers indicative of myopic changes and / or incidences of lens opacity or discoloration when evaluated using slit - lamp biomicroscopy examination , although no ocular abnormalities were observed in rhesus monkeys during daily oral or dermal treatment with DMSO for 9 to 18 months .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Pivotal Studies in Osteoarthritis of the Knee The use of PENNSAID for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee was evaluated in two double - blind controlled trials conducted in the US and Canada , involving patients treated with PENNSAID at a dose of 40 drops four times a day for 12 weeks .
PENNSAID was compared to topical placebo ( 2 . 3 % DMSO with other excipients ) and / or topical vehicle solution ( 45 . 5 % w / w DMSO with other excipients ) , applied directly to the study knee .
In both trials , PENNSAID treatment resulted in statistically significant clinical improvement compared to placebo and / or vehicle , in all three primary efficacy variables ― pain , physical function ( Western Ontario and McMaster Universities LK3 . 1 OA Index ( WOMAC ) pain and physical function dimensions ) and Patient Overall Health Assessment ( POHA ) / Patient Global Assessment ( PGA ) .
Numerical results are summarized in Tables 3 and 4 .
Table 3 : Change in treatment outcomes after 12 weeks of treatment in one study of efficacy of PENNSAID ® 1 placebo formulation included 2 . 3 % DMSO 2 vehicle formulation included 45 . 5 % DMSO Efficacy Variable Study I Mean baseline score and mean change in efficacy variables after 12 weeks of treatment Mean Baseline score PENNSAID ® N = 154 Topical placebo1 N = 155 Topical vehicle2 N = 161 WOMAC pain score ( Likert 3 . 1 , 0 – 20 ) 13 - 6 . 0 - 4 . 7 - 4 . 7 WOMAC physical function ( Likert 3 . 1 , 0 – 68 ) 42 - 15 . 7 - 12 . 3 - 12 . 1 POHA ( 0 – 4 ) 2 . 3 - 1 . 0 - 0 . 4 - 0 . 6 Table 4 : Change in treatment outcomes after 12 weeks of treatment in one study of efficacy of PENNSAID1vehicle formulation included 45 . 5 % DMSO Efficacy Variable Study II Mean baseline score and mean change in efficacy variables after 12 weeks of treatment Mean Baseline score PENNSAID N = 164 Topical vehicle1 N = 162 WOMAC pain score ( Likert 3 . 1 , 0 – 20 ) 13 - 5 . 9 - 4 . 4 WOMAC physical function ( Likert 3 . 1 , 0 – 68 ) 42 - 15 . 3 - 10 . 3 PGA ( 0 – 4 ) 3 . 1 - 1 . 3 - 1 . 0 16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PENNSAID is supplied as a clear , colorless to faintly pink - orange solution containing 16 . 05 mg of diclofenac sodium per mL of solution , in a white high density polyethylene bottle with a white low - density dropper cap .
NDC Number & Size 15 mL bottle ( physician sample ) NDC # 23635 - 310 - 11 150 mL bottle NDC # 23635 - 310 - 15 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Medication Guide ( 17 . 10 ) for specific patient instructions .
17 . 1 Patient / Caregiver Instructions Inform patients of the following information before initiating therapy with an NSAID and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy .
Encourage patients to read the NSAID Medication Guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed prior to using PENNSAID [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 10 ) and Patient Instructions for Use ( 17 . 11 ) ] .
17 . 2 Cardiovascular Effects PENNSAID , like other NSAIDs , may cause serious CV side effects , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Inform patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 3 Gastrointestinal Effects PENNSAID , like other NSAIDs , may cause GI discomfort and , rarely , serious GI side effects , such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , inform patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulceration and bleeding , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Instruct patients of the importance of this follow - up [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
17 . 4 Hepatotoxicity Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness , and “ flu - like ” symptoms ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to stop therapy with PENNSAID and seek immediate medical therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 5 Adverse Skin Reactions PENNSAID , like other NSAIDs , can cause serious systemic skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , SJS , and TEN , which may result in hospitalizations and even death .
Although serious systemic skin reactions may occur without warning , instruct patients to be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching , and to ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Advise patients to stop PENNSAID immediately if they develop any type of generalized rash and contact their physicians as soon as possible .
PENNSAID can cause a localized skin reaction at the application site .
Advise patients to contact their physicians as soon as possible if they develop any type of localized application site rash .
Instruct patients not to apply PENNSAID to open skin wounds , infections , inflammations , or exfoliative dermatitis , as it may affect absorption and reduce tolerability of the drug .
Instruct patients to wait until the area treated with PENNSAID is completely dry before applying sunscreen , insect repellant , lotion , moisturizer , cosmetics , or other topical medication .
Instruct patients to minimize or avoid exposure of treated knee ( s ) to natural or artificial sunlight .
17 . 6 Weight Gain and Edema Instruct patients to promptly report to their physician signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain or edema following treatment with PENNSAID [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
17 . 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions Inform patients of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . , difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
If these occur , instruct patients to seek immediate emergency help [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 8 Effects During Pregnancy Instruct patients who are pregnant or intending to become pregnant not to use PENNSAID [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) and Impairment of Fertility ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 9 Eye Exposure Instruct patients to avoid contact of PENNSAID with the eyes and mucosa .
Advise patients that if eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour .
17 . 10 Medication Guide Medication Guide For Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance increases : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a “ coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . ”
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called “ corticosteroids ” and “ anticoagulants ” • longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant .
NSAID medicines should not be used by pregnant women late in their pregnancy .
• if you are breastfeeding .
Talk to your doctor .
What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Other side effects include : • stomach pain • constipation • diarrhea • gas • heartburn • nausea • vomiting • dizziness Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • slurred speech • weakness in one part or side of your body • swelling of the face or throat Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
NSAID medicines that need a prescription * Vicoprofen contains the same dose of ibuprofen as over - the - counter ( OTC ) NSAID , and is usually used for less than 10 days to treat pain .
The OTC NSAID label warns that long term continuous use may increase the risk of heart attack or stroke .
Generic Name Tradename Celecoxib Celebrex ® Diclofenac Flector , Cataflam ® , Voltaren ® , Arthrotec ™ ( combined with misoprostol ) , PENNSAID ® Diflunisal Dolobid ® Etodolac Lodine ® , Lodine ® XL Fenoprofen Nalfon ® , Nalfon ® 200 Flurbirofen Ansaid ® Ibuprofen Motrin ® , Tab - Profen ® , Vicoprofen ® * ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ™ ( combined with oxycodone ) Indomethacin Indocin ® , Indocin ® SR , Indo - Lemmon ™ , Indomethagan ™ Ketoprofen Oruvail ® Ketorolac Toradol ® Mefenamic Acid Ponstel ® Meloxicam Mobic ® Nabumetone Relafen ® Naproxen Naprosyn ® , Anaprox ® , Anaprox ® DS , EC - Naproxyn ® , Naprelan ® , Naprapac ® ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaprozin Daypro ® Piroxicam Feldene ® Sulindac Clinoril ® Tolmetin Tolectin ® , Tolectin DS ® , Tolectin ® 600 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
17 . 11 Patient Instructions for Use Patient Instructions for Use PENNSAID [ pen / sed ] ( diclofenac sodium topical solution ) Your doctor has prescribed PENNSAID ® to treat your pain from osteoarthritis in your knee ( s ) and help you manage your daily activities better .
Before you use PENNSAID ® : • Apply PENNSAID ® exactly as your doctor tells you .
Do not apply PENNSAID ® anywhere on your body other than where your doctor tells you .
• Apply PENNSAID ® on clean , dry skin that does not have any cuts , infections or rashes .
• Use PENNSAID ® 4 times each day on your knee ( s ) .
• Do not get PENNSAID ® in your eyes , nose or mouth .
Only use PENNSAID ® on your skin ( topical use ) .
If you get PENNSAID ® in your eyes , rinse your eyes right away with water or saline .
Call your doctor if your eyes are irritated for more than one hour .
Steps for using PENNSAID ® : Step 1 .
Wash your hands with soap and water before and after applying PENNSAID ® .
Step 2 .
Your total dose for each knee is 40 drops of PENNSAID ® .
You will use 10 drops at a time .
Put 10 drops of PENNSAID ® either on your hand or directly on your knee .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 .
Dispense 10 drops of PENNSAID ® at a time Step 3 .
Spread PENNSAID ® evenly on the front , back and sides of your knee .
Repeat this step 4 times so that your knee is completely covered with a total of 40 drops of PENNSAID ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 .
Spread PENNSAID ® evenly on the front , and sides of your knee [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 .
Spread PENNSAID ® evenly on the back of your knee Step 4 .
Repeat steps 2 and 3 for the other knee if needed .
After you use PENNSAID ® : Do not • cover your knee with clothing until your knee is completely dry • put sunscreen , insect repellant , lotion , moisturizer , cosmetics , or other topical medicines on your knee until it is completely dry • take a shower or a bath for at least 30 minutes after you put PENNSAID ® on your knee ( s ) • use heating pads or apply bandages to the skin where you have applied PENNSAID ® • expose your skin to sunlight or artificial light ( tanning booths ) where you have put PENNSAID ® How should I store PENNSAID ® ?
• Store PENNSAID ® between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
Keep PENNSAID ® and all medicines out of the reach of children .
COVIDIEN , COVIDIEN with logo and Covidien logo are U . S . and / or internationally registered trademarks of Covidien AG .
PENNSAID is a trademark of Nuvo Research Inc .
Other brands are trademarks of their respective owners .
Distributed by : Mallinckrodt Brand Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Hazelwood , MO 63042 USA Manufactured by : Nuvo Manufacturing Varennes , Quebec , J3X 1P7 Canada Issued 01 / 2010 E0073 - 01 Mallinckrodt COVIDIEN ™ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PENNSAID LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
