Rx ONLY CAUTION : METHOXSALEN IS A POTENT DRUG .
READ ENTIRE BROCHURE PRIOR TO PRESCRIBING OR DISPENSING THIS MEDICATION .
Methoxsalen with ultraviolet ( UV ) radiation should be used only by physicians who have special competence in the diagnosis and treatment of psoriasis and who have special training and experience in photochemotherapy .
The use of Psoralen and ultraviolet radiation therapy should be under constant supervision of such a physician .
For the treatment of patients with psoriasis , photochemotherapy should be restricted to patients with severe , recalcitrant , disabling psoriasis which is not adequately responsive to other forms of therapy , and only when the diagnosis is certain .
Because of the possibilities of ocular damage , aging of the skin , and skin cancer ( including melanoma ) , the patient should be fully informed by the physician of the risks inherent in this therapy .
CAUTION : Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] .
This new dosage form of methoxsalen exhibits significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms .
Patient should be treated in accordance with the dosimetry specifically recommended for this product .
The minimum phototoxic dose ( MPD ) and phototoxic peak time after drug administration prior to onset of photochemotherapy with this dosage form should be determined .
I . DESCRIPTION Methoxsalen Soft Gelatin Capsules USP contains 10 mg methoxsalen .
Methoxsalen occurs as white to pale yellow crystals and can be obtained naturally from seeds of Ammi majus and roots of Heracleum Candicans or through synthesis .
Methoxsalen is practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in boiling alcohol , in acetone , in acetic acid , in propylene glycol , and in benzene , sparingly soluble in boiling water and in ether .
The chemical name of methoxsalen is 9 - methoxy - 7 H - furo [ 3 , 2 - g ] [ 1 ] benzopyran - 7 - one ; its empirical formula is C12H8O4 and the molecular weight is 216 . 19 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methoxsalen Capsules are available as soft gelatin capsules containing the following inactive ingredients : Citric acid anhydrous , D & C yellow 10 , FD & C blue 1 , Gelatin , Glycine , Glycerin , Isopropyl alcohol , Medium chain triglyceride , Polyethylene glycol 400 , Polysorbate 80 , Purified water , Titanium dioxide and Opacode black .
The opacode black contains Propylene glycol , Shellac glaze ( Modified ) IN SD - 45 , N - Butyl alcohol , Black iron oxide , Isopropyl alcohol and Ammonium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] II .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The combination treatment regimen of psoralen ( P ) and ultraviolet radiation of 320 - 400 nm wavelength commonly referred to as UVA is known by the acronym , PUVA .
Skin reactivity to UVA ( 320 – 400 nm ) radiation is markedly enhanced by the ingestion of methoxsalen .
In a well controlled bioavailability study , Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] reached peak drug levels in the blood of test subjects between 0 . 5 and 4 hours ( Mean = 1 . 8 hours ) as compared to between 1 . 5 and 6 hours ( Mean = 3 . 0 hours ) for regular hard gelatin capsule when administered with 8 ounces of milk .
Peak drug levels were 2 to 3 - fold greater when the overall extent of drug absorption was approximately 2 - fold greater for Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] as compared to regular hard gelatin capsules .
Detectable methoxsalen levels were observed up to 12 hours post dose .
The drug half - life is approximately 2 hours .
Photosensitivity studies demonstrate a shorter time of peak photosensitivity of 1 . 5 to 2 . 1 hours vs . 3 . 9 to 4 . 25 hours for regular hard gelatin capsules .
In addition , the mean minimal erythema dose ( MED ) , J / cm2 , for the Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] is substantially less than that required for regular hard gelatin capsule ( Levins et al . , 1984 and private communication1 ) .
Methoxsalen is reversibly bound to serum albumin and is also preferentially taken up by epidermal cells ( Artuc et al . , 19792 ) .
At a dose which is 6 times larger than that used in humans , it induces mixed function oxidases in the liver of mice ( Mandula et al . , 19783 ) .
In both mice and man , methoxsalen is rapidly metabolized .
Approximately 95 % of the drug is excreted as a series of metabolites in the urine within 24 hours ( Pathak et al . , 19774 ) .
The exact mechanism of action of methoxsalen with the epidermal melanocytes and keratinocytes is not known .
The best known biochemical reaction of methoxsalen is with DNA .
Methoxsalen , upon photoactivation , conjugates and forms covalent bonds with DNA which leads to the formation of both monofunctional ( addition to a single strand of DNA ) and bifunctional ( crosslinking of psoralen to both strands of DNA ) adducts ( Dall ' Acqua et al . , 19715 ; Cole , 19706 ; Musajo et al . , 19747 ; Dall ' Acqua et al . , 19798 ) .
Reactions with proteins have also been described ( Yoshikawa , et al . , 19799 ) .
Methoxsalen acts as a photosensitizer .
Administration of the drug and subsequent exposure to UVA can lead to cell injury .
Orally administered methoxsalen reaches the skin via the blood and UVA penetrates well into the skin .
If sufficient cell injury occurs in the skin , an inflammatory reaction occurs .
The most obvious manifestation of this reaction is delayed erythema , which may not begin for several hours and peaks at 48 - 72 hours .
The inflammation is followed , over several days to weeks , by repair which is manifested by increased melanization of the epidermis and thickening of the stratum corneum .
The mechanisms of therapy are not known .
In the treatment of psoriasis , the mechanism is most often assumed to be DNA photodamage and resulting decrease in cell proliferation but other vascular , leukocyte , or cell regulatory mechanisms may also be playing some role .
Psoriasis is a hyperproliferative disorder and other agents known to be therapeutic for psoriasis are known to inhibit DNA synthesis .
III .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Photochemotherapy ( Methoxsalen with long wave UVA radiation ) is indicated for the symptomatic control of severe , recalcitrant , disabling psoriasis not adequately responsive to other forms of therapy and when the diagnosis has been supported by biopsy .
Methoxsalen is intended to be administered only in conjunction with a schedule of controlled doses of long wave ultraviolet radiation .
IV .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A . Patients exhibiting idiosyncratic reactions to psoralen compounds .
B . Patients possessing a specific history of light sensitive disease states should not initiate methoxsalen therapy except under special circumstances .
Diseases associated with photosensitivity include lupus erythematosus , porphyria cutanea tarda , erythropoietic protoporphyria , variegate porphyria , xeroderma pigmentosum , and albinism .
C . Patients with melanoma or with a history of melanoma .
D . Patients with invasive squamous cell carcinomas .
E . Patients with aphakia , because of the significantly increased risk of retinal damage due to the absence of lenses .
V . WARNINGS - GENERAL A . SKIN BURNING : Serious burns from either UVA or sunlight ( even through window glass ) can result if the recommended dosage of the drug and / or exposure schedules are exceeded .
B . CARCINOGENICITY : ANIMAL STUDIES : Topical or intraperitoneal methoxsalen has been reported to be a potent photocarcinogen in albino mice and hairless mice ( Hakim et al . , 196010 ) .
However , methoxsalen given by the oral route to Swiss albino mice suggests this agent exerts a protective effect against ultraviolet carcinogenesis ; mice given 8 - methoxypsoralen in their diet showed 38 % ear tumors 180 days after the start of ultraviolet therapy compared to 62 % for controls ( O ' Neal et al . , 195711 ) .
HUMAN STUDIES : A 5 . 7 year prospective study of 1380 psoriasis patients treated with oral methoxsalen and ultraviolet A photochemotherapy ( PUVA ) demonstrated that the risk of cutaneous squamous - cell carcinoma developing at least 22 months following the first PUVA exposure was approximately 12 . 8 times higher in the high dose patients than in the low dose patients ( Stern et al . , 197912 , Stern et al . , 198013 , and Stern et al . , 198414 ) .
The substantial dose - dependent increase was observed in patients with neither a prior history of skin cancer nor significant exposure to cutaneous carcinogens .
Reduction in PUVA dosage significantly reduces the risk .
No substantial dose - related increase was noted for basal cell carcinoma according to Stern et al . , 198414 .
Increases appear greatest in patients who have pre - PUVA exposure to 1 ) prolonged tar and UVB treatment , 2 ) ionizing radiation , or 3 ) arsenic .
Roenigk et al . , 198015 , studied 690 patients for up to 4 years and found no increase in the risk of non - melanoma skin cancer , although patients in this cohort had significantly less exposure to PUVA than in the Stern et al . study .
Recent analysis of new data in the Stern et al cohort ( Stern et al . , 199716 ) has shown that these patients have an elevated relative risk of contracting melanoma .
The relative risk for melanoma in these patients was 2 . 3 ( 95 % confidence interval 1 . 1 to 4 . 1 ) .
The risk is particularly higher in those patients who have received more than 250 PUVA treatments and in those whose treatment has spanned greater than 15 years earlier .
Some patients developing melanoma did so even after having ceased PUVA therapy over 5 years earlier .
These observations indicate the need for monitoring of PUVA patients for skin tumors throughout their lives .
In a study in Indian patients treated for 4 years for vitiligo , 12 % developed keratoses , but not cancer , in the depigmented , vitiliginous areas ( Mosher , 198017 ) .
Clinically , the keratoses were keratotic papules , actinic keratosis - like macules , nonscaling dome - shaped papules , and lichenoid porokeratotic - like papules .
C . CATARACTOGENICITY : ANIMAL STUDIES : Exposure to large doses of UVA causes cataracts in animals , and this effect is enhanced by the administration of methoxsalen ( Cloud et al . , 196018 ; Cloud et al . , 196119 Freeman et al . , 196920 ) .
HUMAN STUDIES : It has been found that the concentration of methoxsalen in the lens is proportional to the serum level .
If the lens is exposed to UVA during the time methoxsalen is present in the lens , photochemical action may lead to irreversible binding of methoxsalen to proteins and the DNA components of the lens ( Lerman et al . , 198021 ) .
However , if the lens is shielded from UVA , the methoxsalen will diffuse out of the lens in a 24 - hour period ( Lerman et al . , 198021 ) .
Patients should be told emphatically to wear UVA absorbing , wrap - around sunglasses for the 24 - hour period following ingestion of methoxsalen whether exposed to direct or indirect sunlight in the open or through a window glass .
Among patients using proper eye protection , there is no evidence for a significantly increased risk of cataracts in association with PUVA therapy ( Stern et al . , 197912 ) .
Thirty - five of 1380 patients have developed cataracts in the 5 years since their first PUVA treatment .
This incidence is comparable to that expected in a population of this size and age distribution .
No relationship between PUVA dose and cataract risk in this group has been noted .
D . ACTINIC DEGENERATION : Exposure to sunlight and / or ultraviolet radiation may result in " premature aging " of the skin .
E . BASAL CELL CARCINOMAS : Patients exhibiting multiple basal cell carcinomas or having a history of basal cell carcinomas should be diligently observed and treated .
F . RADIATION THERAPY : Patients having a history of previous x - ray therapy or grenz ray therapy should be diligently observed for signs of carcinoma .
G . ARSENIC THERAPY : Patients having a history of previous arsenic therapy should be diligently observed for signs of carcinoma .
H . HEPATIC DISEASES : Patients with hepatic insufficiency should be treated with caution since hepatic biotransformation is necessary for drug urinary excretion .
I . CARDIAC DISEASES : Patients with cardiac diseases or others who may be unable to tolerate prolonged standing or exposure to heat stress should not be treated in a vertical UVA chamber .
J . GERIATRIC PATIENTS : Caution should be used in elderly patients , especially those with a pre - existing history of cataracts , cardiovascular conditions , kidney and / or liver dysfunction , or skin cancer .
K . TOTAL DOSAGE : The total cumulative dose of UVA that can be given over long periods of time with safety has not as yet been established .
L . CONCOMITANT THERAPY : Special care should be exercised in treating patients who are receiving concomitant therapy ( either topically or systemically ) with known photosensitizing agents such as anthralin , coal tar or coal tar derivatives , griseofulvin , phenothiazines , nalidixic acid , fluoroquinolone antibiotics , halogenated salicylanilides ( bacteriostatic soaps ) , sulfonamides , tetracyclines , thiazides and certain organic staining dyes such as methylene blue , toluidine blue , rose bengal , and methyl orange .
VI .
PRECAUTIONS A . GENERAL - APPLICABLE TO PSORIASIS TREATMENT : BEFORE METHOXSALEN INGESTION Patients must not sunbathe during the 24 hours prior to methoxsalen ingestion and UV exposure .
The presence of a sunburn may prevent an accurate evaluation of the patient ' s response to photochemotherapy .
AFTER METHOXSALEN INGESTION UVA - absorbing wrap - around sunglasses should be worn during daylight for 24 hours after methoxsalen ingestion .
The protective eyewear must be designed to prevent entry of stray radiation to the eyes , including that which may enter from the sides of the eyewear .
The protective eyewear is used to prevent the irreversible binding of methoxsalen to the proteins and DNA components of the lens .
Cataracts form when enough of the binding occurs .
Visual discrimination should be permitted by the eyewear of patient well - being and comfort .
Patients must avoid sun exposure , even through window glass or cloud cover , for at least 8 hours after methoxsalen ingestion .
If sun exposure cannot be avoided , the patient should wear protective devices such as a hat and gloves , and / or apply sunscreens which contain ingredients that filter out UVA radiation ( e . g . , sunscreens containing benzophenone and / or PABA esters which exhibit a sun protective factor equal to or greater than 15 ) .
These chemical sunscreens should be applied to all areas that might be exposed to the sun ( including lips ) .
Sunscreens should not be applied to areas affected by psoriasis until after the patient has been treated in the UVA chamber .
DURING PUVA THERAPY Total UVA - absorbing / blocking goggles mechanically designed to give maximal ocular protection must be worn .
Failure to do so may increase the risk of cataract formation .
A reliable radiometer can be used to verify elimination of UVA transmission through the goggles .
Abdominal skin , breasts , genitalia , and other sensitive areas should be protected for approximately 1 / 3 of the initial exposure time until tanning occurs .
Unless affected by disease , male genitalia should be shielded .
AFTER COMBINED METHOXSALEN / UVA THERAPY UVA - absorbing wrap - around sunglasses should be worn during daylight for 24 hours after combined methoxsalen / UVA therapy .
Patients should not sunbathe for 48 hours after therapy .
Erythema and / or burning due to photochemotherapy and sunburn due to sun exposure are additive .
B . INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS : See accompanying Patient Package Insert .
C . LABORATORY TESTS : Patients should have an ophthalmologic examination prior to start of therapy , and thence yearly .
Patients should have routine laboratory tests prior to the start of therapy and at regular periods thereafter if patients are on extended treatments .
D . DRUG INTERACTIONS : See WARNINGS – GENERAL .
E . CARCINOGENESIS : See WARNINGS – GENERAL .
F . PREGNANCY : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with methoxsalen .
It is also not known whether methoxsalen can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Methoxsalen should be given to a woman with reproductive capacity only if clearly needed .
G . NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , either methoxsalen ingestion or nursing should be discontinued .
H . PEDIATRIC USE : Safety in children has not been established .
Potential hazards of long - term therapy include the possibilities of carcinogenicity and cataractogenicity as described in the WARNINGS - GENERAL section as well as the probability of actinic degeneration which is also described in the WARNINGS - GENERAL Section .
I . GERIATRIC USE : Clinical studies with Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly subjects responded differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
VII .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : A . METHOXSALEN : The most commonly reported side effect of methoxsalen alone is nausea , which occurs with approximately 10 % of all patients .
This effect may be minimized or avoided by instructing the patient to take methoxsalen in milk or food , or to divide the dose into two portions , taken approximately one - half hour apart .
Other effects include nervousness , insomnia , and depression .
B . COMBINED METHOXSALEN / UVA THERAPY : PRURITUS : This adverse reaction occurs with approximately 10 % of all patients .
In most cases , pruritus can be alleviated with frequent application of bland emollients or other topical agents ; severe pruritus may require systemic treatment .
If pruritus is unresponsive to these measures , shield pruritic areas from further UVA exposure until the condition resolves .
If intractable pruritus is generalized , UVA treatment should be discontinued until the pruritus disappears .
ERYTHEMA : Mild , transient erythema at 24 - 48 hours after PUVA therapy is an expected reaction and indicates that a therapeutic interaction between methoxsalen and UVA occurred .
Any area showing moderate erythema ( greater than Grade 2 - See Table 1 for grades of erythema ) should be shielded during subsequent UVA exposures until the erythema has resolved .
Erythema greater than Grade 2 which appears within 24 hours after UVA treatment may signal a potentially severe burn .
Erythema may become progressively worse over the next 24 hours , since the peak erythemal reaction characteristically occurs 48 hours or later after methoxsalen ingestion .
The patient should be protected from further UVA exposures and sunlight , and should be monitored closely .
IMPORTANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PUVA ERYTHEMA AND SUNBURN : PUVA - induced inflammation differs from sunburn or UVB phototherapy in several ways .
The % transmission of UVB varies between 0 % to 34 % through skin whereas UVA varies between 1 % to 80 % transmission ; thus , UVA is transmitted to a larger % through the skin .
( Diffey , 198222 ) .
The DNA lesions induced by PUVA are very different from UV - induced thymine dimers and may lead to a DNA crosslink .
This DNA lesion may be more problematic to the cell because crosslinks are more lethal and psoralen - DNA photoproducts may be " new " or unfamiliar substrates for DNA repair enzymes .
DNA synthesis is also suppressed longer after PUVA .
The time course of delayed erythema is different with PUVA and may not involve the usual mediators seen in sunburn .
PUVA - induced redness may be just beginning at 24 hours , when UVB erythema has already passed its peak .
The erythema dose - response curve is also steeper for PUVA .
Compared to equally erythemogenic doses of UVB , the histologic alterations induced by PUVA show more dermal vessel damage and longer duration of epidermal and dermal abnormalities .
OTHER ADVERSE REACTIONS : Those reported include edema , dizziness , headache , malaise , depression , hypopigmentation , vesiculation and bullae formation , non - specific rash , herpes simplex , miliaria , urticaria , folliculitis , gastrointestinal disturbances , cutaneous tenderness , leg cramps , hypotension , and extension of psoriasis .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTION , contact Strides Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 244 - 9825 or go to www . strides . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
VIII .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of methoxsalen overdosage , induce emesis and keep the patient in a darkened room for at least 24 hours .
Emesis is most beneficial within the first 2 to 3 hours after ingestion of methoxsalen , since maximum blood levels are reached by this time .
IX .
DRUG DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION CAUTION : Methoxsalen Capsules , USP represents a new dose form of methoxsalen .
This new dosage form of methoxsalen exhibits significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms .
Each patient should be evaluated by determining the minimum phototoxic dose ( MPD ) and phototoxic peak time after drug administration prior to onset of photochemotherapy with this dosage form .
Human bioavailability studies have indicated the following drug dosage and administration directions are to be used as a guideline only .
PSORIASIS THERAPY 1 .
DRUG DOSAGE - INITIAL THERAPY : Methoxsalen capsules should be taken 1 - 1 / 2 to 2 hours before UVA exposure with some low - fat food or milk according to the following table : Patient ' s Weight Dose ( kg ) ( lbs ) ( mg ) < 30 < 66 10 30 - 50 66 - 110 20 51 - 65 112 - 143 30 66 - 80 146 - 176 40 81 - 90 179 - 198 50 91 - 115 201 - 254 60 > 115 > 254 70 Geriatric patients should generally be started at the low end of the dose recommended according to body weight and closely monitored during PUVA therapy .
Although clinical experience has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients , the use of methoxsalen in older individuals may be affected by the presence of pre - existing medical conditions .
2 .
INITIAL EXPOSURE : The initial UVA exposure energy level and corresponding time of exposure is determined by the patient ' s skin characteristics for sun burning and tanning as follows : * Patients with natural pigmentation of these types should be classified into a lower skin type category if the sunburning history so indicates .
Skin Type History Recommended J / cm2 I Always burn , never tan ( patients with erythrodermic psoriasis are to be classed as Type I for determination of UVA dosage . )
0 . 5 J / cm2 II Always burn , but sometimes tan 1 . 0 J / cm2 III Sometimes burn , but always tan 1 . 5 J / cm2 IV Never burn , always tan 2 . 0 J / cm2 Skin Type Physician Examination J / cm2 V * Moderately pigmented 2 . 5 J / cm2 VI * Blacks 3 . 0 J / cm2 If the MPD is done , start at 1 / 2 MPD .
Additional drug dosage directions are as follows : Weight Change : In the event that the weight of a patient changes during treatment such that he / she falls into an adjacent weight range / dose category , no change in the dose of methoxsalen is usually required .
If , in the physician ' s opinion , however , a weight change is sufficiently great to modify the drug dose , then an adjustment in the time of exposure to UVA should be made .
Dose / Week : The number of doses per week of methoxsalen capsules will be determined by the patient ' s schedule of UVA exposures .
In no case should treatments be given more often than once every other day because the full extent of phototoxic reactions may not be evident until 48 hours after each exposure .
Dosage Increase : Dosage may be increased by 10 mg .
after the 15 th treatment under the conditions outlined in section XI . B . 4 .
b . X . UVA RADIATION SOURCE SPECIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION A . IRRADIANCE UNIFORMITY The following specifications should be met with the window of the detector held in a vertical plane : Vertical Variation : For readings taken at any point along the vertical center axis of the chamber ( to within 15 cm from the top and bottom ) , the lowest reading should not be less than 70 % of the highest reading .
Horizontal Variation : Throughout any specific horizontal plane , the lowest reading must be at least 80 % of the highest reading , excluding the peripheral 3 cm of the patient treatment space .
B . PATIENT SAFETY FEATURES : The following safety features should be present : ( 1 ) Protection from electrical hazard : All units should be grounded and conform to applicable electrical codes .
The patient or operator should not be able to touch any live electrical parts .
There should be ground fault protection .
( 2 ) Protective shielding of lamps : The patient should not be able to come in contact with the bare lamps .
In the event of lamp breakage , the patient should not be exposed to broken lamp components .
( 3 ) Hand rails and hand holds : Appropriate supports should be available to the patient .
( 4 ) Patient viewing window : A window which blocks UV should be provided for viewing the patient during treatment .
( 5 ) Door and latches : Patients should be able to open the door from the inside with only slight pressure to the door .
( 6 ) Non - skid floor : The floor should be of a non - skid nature .
( 7 ) Thermoregulation : Sufficient air flow should be provided for patient safety and comfort , limiting temperature within the UVA radiator cabinet to approximately less than 100 ° F . ( 8 ) Timer : The irradiator should be equipped with an automatic timer which terminates the exposure at the conclusion of a pre - set time interval .
( 9 ) Patient alarm device : An alarm device within the UVA irradiator chamber should be accessible to the patient for emergency activation .
( 10 ) Danger label : The unit should have a label prominently displayed which reads as follows : DANGER - Ultraviolet radiation - Follow your physicians instructions - Failure to use protective eyewear may result in eye injury .
C . UVA EXPOSURE DOSIMETRY MEASUREMENTS : The maximum radiant exposure or irradiance ( within ± 15 % ) of UVA ( 320 - 400 nm ) delivered to the patient should be determined by using an appropriate radiometer calibrated to be read in J / cm2 or mW / cm2 .
In the absence of a standard measuring technique approved by the National Bureau of Standards , the system should use a detector corrected to a cosine spatial response .
The use and recalibration frequency of such a radiometer for a specific UVA irradiator chamber should be specified by the manufacturer because the UVA dose ( exposure ) is determined by the design of the irradiator , the number of lamps , and the age of the lamp .
If irradiance is measured , the radiometer reading in mW / cm2 is used to calculate the exposure time in minutes to deliver the required UVA in J / cm2 to a patient in the UVA irradiator cabinet .
The equation is : Exposure Time Desired UVA Dose ( J / cm2 ) ( minutes ) = ------------------------------------- 0 . 06 x Irradiance ( mW / cm2 ) Overexposure due to human error should be minimized by using an accurate automatic timing device , which is set by the operator and controlled by energizing and de - energizing the UVA irradiator lamp .
The timing device calibration interval should be specified by the manufacturer .
Safety systems should be included to minimize the possibility of delivering a UVA exposure which exceeds the prescribed dose , in the event the timer or radiometer should malfunction .
D . UVA SPECTRAL OUTPUT DISTRIBUTION : The spectral distributions of the lamps should meet the following specifications : 1 As a percentage of total irradiance between 320 and 400 nanometers .
Wavelength band ( nanometers ) Output1 < 310 … … … … … .
< 1 310 to 320 … … … … … .
1 to 3 320 to 330 … … … … … .
4 to 8 330 to 340 … … … … … .
11 to 17 340 to 350 … … … … … .
18 to 25 350 to 360 … … … … … .
19 to 28 360 to 370 … … … … … .
15 to 23 370 to 380 … … … … … .
8 to 12 380 to 390 … … … … … .
3 to 7 390 to 400 … … … … … .
1 to 3 XI .
PUVA TREATMENT PROTOCOL : INTRODUCTION : The Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] reach their maximum bioavailability in 1 - 1 / 2 to 2 hours after ingestion .
On average , the serum level achieved with Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] is twice that obtained with hard gelatin capsules and reach their peak concentration in less than half the time of the hard gelatin capsules .
As a result the mean MED J / cm2 for the Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] is substantially less than that required for hard gelatin capsules ( Levins et al . , 1984 and private communication1 ) .
Photosensitivity studies demonstrate a shorter time of peak photosensitivity of 1 . 5 to 2 . 1 hours vs . 3 . 9 to 4 . 25 hours for regular methoxsalen capsules .
A . INITIAL EXPOSURE : The initial UVA exposures should be conducted according to the guidelines presented previously under IX .
Psoriasis therapy , Drug dosage - initial Therapy and initial Exposure .
B . CLEARING PHASE : Specific recommendations for patient treatment are as follows : SKIN TYPES I , II , & III .
Patients with skin types I , II , and III may be treated 2 or 3 times per week .
UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up to 1 . 0 J / cm2 at each treatment , according to the patient ' s response .
If erythema occurs , however , do not increase exposure time until erythema resolves .
The severity and extent of the patient ' s erythema may be used to determine whether the next exposure should be shortened , omitted , or maintained at the previous dosage .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
SKIN TYPES IV , V , & VI .
Patients with skin types IV , V , and VI may be treated 2 or 3 times per week .
UVA exposure may be held constant or increased by up to 1 . 5 J / cm2 at each treatment unless erythema occurs .
If erythema occurs , follow instructions outlined above in the procedures for patients with skin types I , II , and III .
ERYTHRODERMIC PSORIASIS .
Patients with erythrodermic psoriasis should be treated with special attention because pre - existing erythema may obscure observations of possible treatment - related phototoxic erythema .
These patients may be treated 2 or 3 times per week , as a Type I patient .
MISCELLANEOUS SITUATIONS : If there is no response after a total of 10 treatments , the exposure of UVA energy may be increased by an additional 0 . 5 – 1 . 0 J / cm2 above the prior incremental increases for each treatment .
( Example : a patient whose exposure dosage is being increased by 1 . 0 J / cm2 may now have all subsequent doses increased by 1 . 5 – 2 . 0 J / cm2 . )
If there is no response , or only minimal response , after 15 treatments , the dosage of methoxsalen may be increased by 10 mg ( a one - time increase in dosage ) .
This increased dosage may be continued for the remainder of the course of treatment but should not be exceeded .
If a patient misses a treatment , the UVA exposure time of the next treatment should not be increased .
If more than one treatment is missed , reduce the exposure by 0 . 5 J / cm2 for each treatment missed .
If the lower extremities are not responding as well as the rest of the body and do not show erythema , cover all other body areas and give 25 % of the present exposure dose as an additional exposure to the lower extremities .
This additional exposure to the lower extremities should be terminated if erythema develops on these areas .
Non - responsive psoriasis : If a patient ' s generalized psoriasis is not responding , or if the condition appears to be worsening during treatment , the possibility of a generalized phototoxic reaction should be considered .
This may be confirmed by the improvement of the condition following temporary discontinuance of this therapy for two weeks .
If no improvement occurs during the interruption of treatment , this patient may be considered a treatment failure .
C . ALTERNATIVE EXPOSURE SCHEDULE : As an alternative to increasing the UVA exposure at each treatment , the following schedule may be followed ; this schedule may reduce the total number of J / cm2 received by the patient over the entire course of therapy .
Incremental increases in UVA exposure for all patients may range from 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 J / cm2 , according to the patient ' s response to therapy .
Once Grade 2 clearing ( see Table 2 ) has been reached and the patient is progressing adequately , UVA dosage is held constant .
This dosage is maintained until Grade 4 clearing is reached .
If the rate of clearing significantly decreases , exposure dosage may be increased at each treatment ( 0 . 1 - 1 . 5 J / cm2 ) until Grade 3 clearing and a satisfactory progress rate is attained .
The UVA exposure will be held constant again until Grade 4 clearing is attained .
These increases may be used also if the rate of clearing significantly decreases between Grade 3 and Grade 4 response .
However , the possibility of a phototoxic reaction should be considered ; see Non - responsive Psoriasis , above .
In summary , this schedule raises slightly the increments ( J / cm2 ) of UVA dosage , but limits these increases to those periods when the patient is not responding adequately .
Otherwise , the UVA exposure is held at the lowest effective dose .
D . MAINTENANCE PHASE : The goal of maintenance treatment is to keep the patient as symptom - free as possible with the least amount of UVA exposure .
SCHEDULE OF EXPOSURES : When patients have achieved 95 % clearing , or Grade 4 response ( Table 2 ) , they may be placed on the following maintenance schedules ( M1 – M4 ) , in sequence .
It is recommended that each maintenance schedule be adhered to for at least 2 treatments ( unless erythema or psoriatic flare occurs , in which case see ( 2 a ) and ( 2 b ) below ) .
Maintenance Schedules M1 - once / week M2 - once / 2 weeks M3 - once / 3 weeks M4 - p . r . n . ( i . e . , for flares ) LENGTH OF EXPOSURE : The UVA exposure for the first maintenance treatment of any schedule ( except M4 as noted below ) is the same as that of the patient ' s last treatment under the previous schedule .
For skin types I – IV , however , it is recommended that the maximum UVA dosage during maintenance treatments not exceed the following : Skin Types J / cm2 / treatment I 12 II 14 III 18 IV 22 If the patient develops erythema or new lesions of psoriasis , proceed as follows : a . Erythema : During maintenance therapy , the patient ' s tan and threshold dose for erythema may gradually decrease .
If maintenance treatments produce significant erythema , the exposure to UVA should be decreased by 25 % until further treatments no longer produce erythema .
b . Psoriasis : If the patient develops new areas of psoriasis during maintenance therapy ( but still is classified as having a Grade 4 response ) , the exposure to UVA may be increased by 0 . 5 - 1 . 5 J / cm2 at each treatment ; this is appropriate for all types of patients .
These increases are continued until the psoriasis is brought under control and the patient is again clear .
The exposure being administered when this clearing is reached should be used for further maintenance treatment .
FLARES DURING MAINTENANCE : If the patient flares during maintenance treatment ( i . e . , develops psoriasis on more than 5 % of the originally involved areas of the body ) , this maintenance treatment schedule may be changed to the preceding maintenance or clearing schedule .
The patient may be kept on his schedule until again 95 % clear .
If the original maintenance treatment schedule is unable to control the psoriasis , the schedule may be changed to a more frequent regimen .
If a flare occurs less than 6 weeks after the last treatment , 25 % of the maximum exposure received during the clearing phase , with the clearing schedule received during the clearing phase , may be used and then proceed with the clearing schedule previously followed for this patient .
( At 95 % clearing , follow regular maintenance until the optimum maintenance schedule is determined for the patient . )
If more than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last treatment was given , treat patients as if they were beginning therapy insofar as exposure dosages are concerned , since their threshold for erythema may have decreased .
Table 1 .
Grades of Erythema Grade Erythema 0 No erythema 1 Minimally perceptible erythema - faint pink 2 Marked erythema but with no edema 3 Fiery erythema with edema 4 Fiery erythema with edema and blistering Table 2 .
Response To Therapy Grade Criteria Percent Improvement ( compared to original extent of disease ) - 1 Psoriasis worse … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 0 0 No change … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
0 1 Minimal improvement - slightly less scale and / or erythema … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .
5 - 20 2 Definite improvement - partial flattening of all plaques - less scaling and less erythema … … … … … ..
20 - 50 3 Considerable improvement - nearly complete flattening of all plaques but borders of plaques still palpable … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 50 - 95 4 Clearing ; complete flattening of plaques including borders ; plaques may be outlined by pigmentation … .
95 XII .
HOW SUPPLIED Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg is green color , oval shaped soft gelatin capsule imprinted with ' M10 ' containing no drug crystals and clear colorless to pale yellow liquid , each containing 10 mg of methoxsalen ( 8 - methoxypsoralen ) .
It is packed in amber colored glass bottles as 50 ' s count ( NDC 64380 - 752 - 16 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Manufactured by : Strides Pharma Science Ltd .
Bengaluru - 562106 , India Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 BIBLIOGRAPHY • Levins , P . C . , Gange , R . W . , Momtaz - T , K . , Parrish , J . A . , and Fitzpatrick , T . B . : A New Liquid Formulation of 8 - Methoxypsoralen : Bioactivity and Effect of Diet : JID , 82 , No . 2 , pp . 185 - 187 ( 1984 ) and private communication .
• Artuc , M . , Stuettgen , G . , Schalla , W . , Schaefer , H . , and Gazith , J . : Reversible binding of 5 - and 8 - methoxypsoralen to human serum proteins ( albumin ) and to epidermis in vitro : Brit .
J . Dermat .
101 , pp . 669 - 677 ( 1979 ) .
• Mandula , B . B . , Pathak , M . A . , Nakayama , T . , and Davidson , S . J . : Induction of mixed - function oxidases in mouse liver by psoralens . , Ibid , 99 , pp . 687 - 692 ( 1978 ) .
• Pathak , M . A . , Fitzpatrick , T . B . , Parrish , J . A . : PSORIASIS , Proceedings of the Second International Symposium .
Edited by E . M . Farber , A . J . Cox , Yorke Medical Books , pp . 262 - 265 ( 1977 ) .
• Dall ' Acqua , F . , Marciani , S . , Ciavatta , L . , Rodighiero , G . : Formation of interstrand cross - linkings in the photoreactions between furocoumarins and DNA ; Z Naturforsch ( B ) , 26 , pp . 561 - 569 ( 1971 ) .
• Cole , R . S . : Light - induced cross - linkings of DNA in the presence of a furocoumarin ( psoralen ) , Biochem .
Biophys .
Acta , 217 , pp . 30 - 39 ( 1970 ) .
• Musajo , L . , Rodighiero , G . , Caporale , G . , Dall ' Acqua , F . , Marciani , S . , Bordin , F . , Baccichetti , F . , Bevilacqua , R . : Photoreactions between Skin - Photosensitizing Furocoumarins and Nucleic Acids , Sunlight and Man ; Normal and Abnormal Photobiologic Responses .
Edited by M . A . Pathak , L . C . Harber , M . Seiji et al .
University of Tokyo Press , pp . 369 - 387 ( 1974 ) .
• Dall ' Acqua , F . , Vedaldi , D . , Bordin , F . , and Rodighiero , G . : New studies in the interaction between 8 - methoxypsoralen and DNA in vitro ; JID , 73 , pp . 191 - 197 ( 1979 ) .
• Yoshikawa , K . , Mori , N . , Sakakibara , S . , Mizuno , N . , Song , P . : Photo Conjugation of 8 - methoxypsoralen with Proteins ; Photochem .
& Photobiol .
29 , pp . 1127 - 1133 ( 1979 ) .
• Hakim , R . D . , Griffin , A . C . : Knox , J . M . : Erythema and tumor formation in methoxsalen treated mice exposed to fluorescent light ; Arch .
Dermatol .
82 , pp . 572 - 577 ( 1960 ) .
• O ' Neal , M . A . , Griffin , A . C . : The Effect of Oxypsoralen upon Ultraviolet Carcinogenesis in Albino Mice , Cancer Res . , 17 , pp . 911 - 916 ( 1957 ) .
• Stern , R . S . , Unpublished personal communication .
• Stern , R . S . , Parrish , J . A . , Zierler , S . : Skin Carcinoma in Patients with Psoriasis Treated with Topical Tar and Artificial Ultraviolet Radiation .
Lancet , 1 , pp . 732 - 735 ( 1980 ) .
• Stern , R . S . , Laird , N . , Melski , J . , Parrish , J . A . , Fitzpatrick , T . B . , Bleich , H . L . : Cutaneous Squamous - Cell Carcinoma in Patients Treated with PUVA : NEJM , 310 , No . 18 , pp . 1156 - 1161 ( 1984 ) .
• Roenigk , Jr . , H . H . , and 12 Cooperating Investigators : Skin Cancer in the PUVA - 48 Cooperative Study of Psoriasis .
Program for Forty - First Annual Meeting for The Society of Investigative Dermatology , Inc . , Sheraton Washington Hotel , Washington , D . C . , May 12 , 13 , and 14 , 1980 .
Abstract JID , 74 No . 4 , pp . 250 ( April 1980 ) .
• Stern et al . , Malignant melanoma in patients treated for psoriasis with methoxsalen ( psoralen ) and ultraviolet A radiation ( PUVA ) .
The PUVA Follow - Up Study .
New England Journal of Medicine , 336 : 1041 - 1045 , ( April 10 , 1997 ) .
• Mosher , D . B . , Pathak , M . A . , Harris , T . J . , Fitzpatrick , T . B . : Development of Cutaneous Lesions in Vitiligo During Long - Term PUVA Therapy .
Program for Forty - First Annual Meeting for The Society for Investigative Dermatology , Inc . , Sheraton Washington Hotel , Washington , D . C . , May 12 , 13 , and 14 , 1980 .
Abstracts JID , 74 , No . 4 , p . 259 ( April , 1980 ) .
• Cloud , T . M . , Hakim , R . , Griffin , A . C . : Photosensitization of the eye with methoxsalen .
I . Acute effects ; Arch .
Ophthalmol .
64 , pp . 346 - 352 ( 1960 ) .
• Cloud , T . M . , Hakim , R . , Griffin , A . C . : Photosensitization of the eye with methoxsalen .
II .
Chronic effects , Ibid , 66 , pp . 689 - 694 ( 1961 ) .
• Freeman , R . G . , Troll , D . : Photosensitization of the eye by 8 - methoxypsoralen , JID , 53 , pp . 449 - 453 ( 1969 ) .
• Lerman , S . , Megaw , J . , Willis , I . : Potential ocular complications from PUVA therapy and their prevention ; JID 74 , pp . 197 - 199 ( 1980 ) .
• Diffey , > L . , Medical Physics Handbook 11 , Ultraviolet Radiation In Medicine , Adam Hilger , Ltd . , Bristol , p . 86 ( 1982 ) Revised : 01 / 2019 PATIENT INFORMATION ON THE USE OF METHOXSALEN CAPSULES , USP 10 MG [ SOFT GELATIN CAPSULES ] IN THE TREATMENT OF PSORIASIS This brochure is intended to provide you with information about the treatment of psoriasis .
The entire brochure should be read so that you are aware of the requirements on your part to ensure the effectiveness and safety of the therapy .
Any additional questions that you may have can be answered by your doctor or pharmacist .
In addition , the pharmacist will have a copy of a very technical brochure entitled the " Physician ' s Package Insert " that you may wish to read .
A .
What Is Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] ?
Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] is a drug which has been shown to be effective in the treatment of psoriasis when combined with exposure to a very specific kind of light .
The use of the drug must be combined with exposure to the special light to produce effective therapy .
Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] represents a new dose form of methoxsalen .
This new dosage form of methoxsalen exhibits significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms .
B .
What Is The Special Light ?
Light is classified into many different parts .
One part is known as ultraviolet light , which is a normal component of sunlight .
Artificial or man - made light sources are now available that produce the special part of light ( ultraviolet " A " ) necessary for the most effective therapy .
C .
What Is " PUVA " ?
" PUVA " is the name of the treatment for psoriasis and stands for the use of Psoralen drug ( Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] ) in combination with UltraViolet A light .
D .
What Is Psoriasis ?
Psoriasis is a skin condition associated with red and scaly patches .
The cause of psoriasis is not known .
PUVA ( Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] with ultraviolet A light ) is used for the treatment of severe psoriasis that has not been helped by other methods of therapy .
E .
What Should The Patient Do Before PUVA Therapy ?
Certain other medicines can make you more sensitive to the combination drug and light treatment .
In addition , certain other medical conditions can be aggravated by this treatment .
Before starting treatment , be sure to tell your doctor if you have experienced any of the following : • had a severe reaction to Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] in the past • had recent x - ray treatment or planning any • have or ever have had skin cancer • have or ever have had any eye problems such as cataracts or loss of the lens of the eyes • have or ever have had liver problems • have or ever have had heart or blood pressure problems • have any medical condition that requires you to stay out of the sun such as lupus erythematosus • are taking any drugs ( either prescription or nonprescription ) .
Some drugs can increase your sensitivity to ultraviolet light either from the sun or man - made sources .
Examples of such drugs include major tranquilizers , sulfa drugs for the treatment of infection or diabetes , tetracycline , antibiotics , griseofulvin products , thiazide - containing diuretics ( blood pressure or water elimination drugs ) , and certain antibacterial or deodorant soaps F . How Should The Patient Take Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft GelatinCapsules ] ?
• The number of capsules recommended by your doctor should be taken with some food or low fat milk two hours before ultraviolet light treatment .
• Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] is a potent drug .
Never take more than is prescribed for you since it may result in burning and / or blistering of your skin after exposure to ultraviolet light .
G .
What Precautions Should Be Taken During And After PUVA Therapy ?
• Eye Protection — Make sure that you wear special wrap - around sunglasses that totally block or absorb ultraviolet light .
Put them on immediately after taking Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin ] and continue wearing them for 24 hours if any light is present ( even if indirect such as reflection or through window glass ) .
Ordinary sunglasses are not adequate .
• Skin & Lip Protection - Do not allow exposure of your skin and lips to sunlight for 8 hours after treatment .
In addition , do not expose your skin to either sunlight or sun lamps ( regardless of safety claims ) within 24 hours of a scheduled treatment .
It is advisable to wear protective clothing ( hat , gloves ) to cover as much of your body as possible after treatment as well as using a sun screen product having a protection factor of at least 15 ( only use after treatment ) .
H . How Long Will The Treatments Last ?
May take from six to eight weeks before lesions disappear .
Maintenance treatments are usually needed to keep the disease under control .
I .
What Are The Problems Associated With Pregnancy Or Breast Feeding ?
• Birth control methods should be employed since the effects of PUVA therapy on the unborn child are not known .
If you become pregnant , inform your doctor so that he can determine whether it is necessary for you to temporarily stop therapy .
• Since it is not known whether Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] passes into mother ' s milk , it is safer not to breast feed while taking this drug .
J .
What Are The Risks Of PUVA Therapy ?
• Premature skin aging may result from prolonged PUVA therapy , especially with those individuals who tan poorly .
This problem is similar to excessive exposure to sunlight .
• There is an increased risk of developing both melanoma and non - melanoma skin cancer .
This risk is greater for individuals who fall into the following categories : a ) fair skin that burns rather than tans b ) have had prior treatment with x - rays , grenz rays , or arsenic c ) have had coal tar and UltraViolet B ( UVB ) treatment .
Even though your doctor will be examining you , you should routinely and completely examine yourself for small growths on your skin or skin sores that will not heal .
Immediately report such observations to your doctor .
3 .
Since studies have shown that animals with unprotected eyes have developed cataracts after PUVA therapy , you should have your eyes examined by an ophthalmologist before starting PUVA therapy , after the first year of therapy and every two years thereafter .
K .
What Are The Possible Side Effects ?
• The most common side effects of PUVA therapy are nausea , itching , and redness of the skin .
The use of low fat milk or food when ingesting the drug may prevent the nausea .
• Tenderness or blistering of the skin may occur , but these symptoms can be helped by the use of skin products recommended by your doctor or pharmacist .
• Less frequent side effects include depression , dizziness , headache , swelling , rash or leg cramps .
Important : Contact your doctor if any side effect continues to bother you after 24 - 48 hours .
Call your doctor for medical advice about adverse effects .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Strides Pharma Inc . at 1 - 877 - 244 - 9825 or go to www . strides . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
L .
What Else Should The Patient Know ?
• Remember to take Methoxsalen Capsules , USP 10 mg [ Soft Gelatin Capsules ] as directed by your doctor .
If you forget to take the drug before your scheduled treatment , be sure to call your doctor to determine what he wishes you to do .
• Remember that the drug has been prescribed specifically for you and your diagnosed condition .
Do not use the drug for any other conditions nor give the drug to others even if they have similar symptoms .
• If you think that you or anyone else has accidentally taken an overdose , stay out of the sunlight and immediately contact your poison control center , doctor , pharmacist , or nearest hospital emergency room .
• ALWAYS KEEP THIS DRUG AND ALL OTHER DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
• Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Strides Pharma Science Ltd .
Bengaluru - 562106 , India Distributed by : Strides Pharma Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 Revised : 01 / 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 64380 - 752 - 16 Rx Only ( Methoxsalen Capsules , USP ) 10 mg CAUTION : This new dosage form of methoxsalen exhibits significantly greater bioavailability and earlier photosensitization onset time than previous methoxsalen dosage forms .
Each patient should be evaluated by determining the minimum phototoxic dose ( MPD ) and phototoxic peak time after drug administration prior to onset of photoche - motheraphy with this dosage form .
50 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
