Active ingredient Zinc Oxide ........ 40 . 0 % Purpose Skin Protectant Uses • helps treat and prevent diaper rash • protects chafed skin due to diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • change wet and soiled diapers promptly • cleanse the diaper area • allow to dry • apply cream liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change , especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Other Information • store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients cod liver oil , talc , petrolatum , lanolin , water , methylparaben , fragrance , BHA Package / Label Principal Display Panel Cottontails baby care maximum strength original diaper rash paste Take care of your little one , from the top of their head to their tiny little toes , with Cottontails ® .
40 % zinc oxide Helps to heal , soothe & prevent diaper rash Compare to Desitin ® Maximum Strength Original Paste ingredients NET WT .
4 OZ .
( 113 g ) Designed to be gentle on your little one , our skin care products will keep their skin smooth , soft and ready for the next exciting day .
Maximum Strength Original Diaper Rash Paste provides overnight relief for your baby ' s delicate skin .
This rich , dermatologist - tested and hypoallergenic formula contains the maximum level of zinc oxide to instantly form a protective barrier to help heal and soothe irritation caused by diaper rash .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson ® Consumer Products Company , owner of the registered trademark Desitin ® DISTRIBUTED BY FOODHOLD U . S . A . , LLC LANDOVER , MD 20785 1 - 877 - 846 - 9949 © 2013 Ahold Licensing , Sarl MADE IN ISRAEL Quality guaranteed or your money back .
0D927 D4 C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
