DESCRIPTION : Each Tablet contains : Atropine Sulfate , USP .......................... 0 . 0194 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP .................
0 . 1037 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP ..... 0 . 0065 mg Phenobarbital , USP .................................. 16 . 2 mg Inactive ingredients : Anhydrous Lactose , Calcium Stearate , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Corn Starch , and Microcrystalline Cellulose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific , fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the following indications as “ possibly ” effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Glaucoma , obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic magacolon ; myasthenia gravis ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
WARNINGS : In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids ( fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs .
Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver , they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS : Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension .
Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis .
Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets .
It is not known whether belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers .
It is not know whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets are administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions may include xerostomia , urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; musculoskeletal pain ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; and decreased sweating .
Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation , drowsiness , and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The dosage of belladonna alkaloids with phenobarbital tablets should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Adults : One or two tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms .
OVERDOSAGE : The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , CNS stimulation .
Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics and activated charcoal .
If indicated , parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride , should be added .
HOW SUPPLIED : Belladonna Alkaloids with Phenobarbital Tablets are supplied as ; White , round , scored , compressed tablets imprinted “ West - ward 140 ” .
Bottles of 60 tablets .
Manufactured by : West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Packaged by : Legacy Pharmaceutical Packaging Earth City , MO 63045 Distributed by : Wal - Mart Bentonville , AR 72716 Store at 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68645 - 230 - 59 Belladonna Alkaloids with Phenobarbital Tablets Rx Only 60 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 Tablets Rx Only USUAL ADULT DOSAGE : See accompanying product literature for complete information .
Store at 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Each Tablet contains : Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP ............... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP ....................... 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine HBr , USP .................... 0 . 0065 mg Phenobarbital , USP ............................... 16 . 2 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
