Active Ingredient ( in each drop ) Purposes Menthol 10 mg ................... Antitussive , Cough Suppressant , Oral Anesthetic Uses Temporarily relieves : • Cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation occurring with the common cold or inhaled irritants • Occasional minor irritation or sore throat Keep out of reach of children .
Olbas Pastilles Maximum Strength Herbal Cough Drops Powerful Vapors Extra Strong and Penetrating 27 Pastilles Clears the Head Soothes the Throat Provides instant , cool soothing relief for sore throats and fights coughs .
Powerful , cooling vapors help your nasal passages feel clearer , too !
An effective formula made from soothing herbs and chlorophyll , which gives Olbas Pastilles their luscious green color - and helps freshen your breath , too !
Warnings Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomitine , consult a doctor promptly ; these may be serious .
Ask a doctor before use if you have : • persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema • cough that occurs with excessive phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if : • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional beofre use .
Directions • adults and children 3 years and over : allow 1 pastille to dissolve slowly in the mouth .
Repeat every hour as needed , or as directed by a doctor .
• children under 3 years : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients : chlorophyll , clove oil , eucalyptus oil , glucose , juniper berry oil , modified starch , sucrose , wintergreen oil .
MFG in England by : G . R . Lane Health Products Ltd .
Gloucester Imported and Dist by : Penn Herb Co , Ltd . , Phila PA 19154 www . Olbas . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
