1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XERAVA is a tetracycline class antibacterial indicated for the treatment of complicated intra ‑ abdominal infections in patients 18 years of age and older .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use XERAVA is not indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) .
( 1 . 1 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of XERAVA and other antibacterial drugs , XERAVA should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Complicated Intra - abdominal Infections XERAVA is indicated for the treatment of complicated intra ‑ abdominal infections ( cIAI ) caused by susceptible microorganisms : Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Citrobacter freundii , Enterobacter cloacae , Klebsiella oxytoca , Enterococcus faecalis , Enterococcus faecium , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus anginosus group , Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides species , and Parabacteroides distasonis in patients 18 years or older [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Limitations of Use XERAVA is not indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 2 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of XERAVA and other antibacterial drugs , XERAVA should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer XERAVA for injection 1 mg / kg by intravenous infusion over approximately 60 minutes every 12 hours for a total duration of 4 to 14 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Severe Hepatic Impairment ( Child Pugh C ) : 1 mg / kg XERAVA every 12 hours on Day 1 , then 1 mg / kg every 24 hours starting on Day 2 for a total duration of 4 to 14 days .
( 2 . 2 ) • Concomitant Use of a Strong Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes ( CYP ) 3 A Inducer : 1 . 5 mg / kg XERAVA every 12 hours for a total duration of 4 to 14 days .
( 2 . 3 ) • See full prescribing information for the preparation of XERAVA ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Adult Dosage The recommended dose regimen of XERAVA is 1 mg / kg every 12 hours .
Administer intravenous infusions of XERAVA over approximately 60 minutes every 12 hours .
The recommended duration of treatment with XERAVA for cIAI is 4 to 14 days .
The duration of therapy should be guided by the severity and location of infection and the patient ’ s clinical response .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh C ) , administer XERAVA 1 mg / kg every 12 hours on Day 1 followed by XERAVA 1 mg / kg every 24 hours starting on Day 2 for a total duration of 4 to 14 days .
No dosage adjustment is warranted in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A and Child Pugh B ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Concomitant Use of a Strong Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes ( CYP ) 3 A Inducer With concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer , administer XERAVA 1 . 5 mg / kg every 12 hours for a total duration of 4 to 14 days .
No dosage adjustment is warranted in patients with concomitant use of a weak or moderate CYP3A inducer [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Drug Compatibilities XERAVA is compatible with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The compatibility of XERAVA with other drugs and infusion solutions has not been established .
XERAVA should not be mixed with other drugs or added to solutions containing other drugs .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration XERAVA is for intravenous infusion only .
Each vial is for a single dose only .
Preparation XERAVA is supplied as a sterile yellow to orange dry powder in a single - dose vial that must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to intravenous infusion as outlined below .
XERAVA does not contain preservatives .
Aseptic technique must be used for reconstitution and dilution as follows : • Calculate the dose of XERAVA based on the patient weight ; 1 mg / kg actual body weight .
Prepare the required dose for intravenous infusion , by reconstituting the appropriate number of vials needed .
Reconstitute each vial of XERAVA with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP or with 5 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , which will deliver the following : • XERAVA 50 mg vial will deliver 50 mg ( 10 mg / mL ) of eravacycline ( free base equivalents ) .
• XERAVA 100 mg vial will deliver 100 mg ( 20 mg / mL ) of eravacycline ( free base equivalents ) • Swirl the vial gently until the powder has dissolved entirely .
Avoid shaking or rapid movement as it may cause foaming .
The reconstituted XERAVA solution should be a clear , pale yellow to orange solution .
Do not use the solution if you notice any particles or the solution is cloudy .
Reconstituted solution is not for direct injection .
The stability of the solution after reconstitution in the vial has been demonstrated for 1 hour at room temperature ( not to exceed 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) .
If the reconstituted solution in the vial is not diluted in the infusion bag within 1 hour , the reconstituted vial content must be discarded .
• The reconstituted XERAVA solution is further diluted for intravenous infusion to a target concentration of 0 . 3 mg / mL , in a 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP infusion bag before intravenous infusion .
To dilute the reconstituted solution , withdraw the full or partial reconstituted vial content from each vial and add it into the infusion bag to generate an infusion solution with a target concentration of 0 . 3 mg / mL ( within a range of 0 . 2 to 0 . 6 mg / mL ) .
Do not shake the bag .
• The diluted solutions must be infused within 24 hours if stored at room temperature ( not to exceed 25 ° C / 77 ° F ) or within 10 days if stored refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Reconstituted XERAVA solutions and diluted XERAVA infusion solutions should not be frozen .
• Visually inspect the diluted XERAVA solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration ( the XERAVA infusion solution for administration is clear and ranges from light yellow to orange ) .
Discard unused portions of the reconstituted and diluted solution .
Administration of the Intravenous Infusion The diluted XERAVA solution is administered as an intravenous infusion over approximately 60 minutes .
XERAVA may be administered intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y - site .
If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several drugs , the line should be flushed before and after infusion of XERAVA with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS XERAVA for injection is a yellow to orange , sterile , preservative - free , lyophilized powder in single - dose vials for reconstitution and further dilution .
XERAVA is available in two strengths : • 50 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 63 . 5 mg eravacycline dihydrochloride ) • 100 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 127 mg eravacycline dihydrochloride ) For injection : 50 mg and 100 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 63 . 5 mg and 127 mg eravacycline dihydrochloride , respectively ) as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS XERAVA is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to eravacycline , tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs , or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to eravacycline , tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs , or any of the excipients in XERAVA ( 4 , 5 , 6 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Life - threatening hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported with tetracycline antibacterial drugs , including XERAVA .
Avoid use in patients with known hypersensitivity to tetracyclines .
( 5 . 1 ) • Tooth Discoloration and Enamel Hypoplasia : The use of XERAVA during tooth development ( last half of pregnancy , infancy and childhood to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) and enamel hypoplasia .
( 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Inhibition of Bone Growth : The use of XERAVA during the second and third trimester of pregnancy , infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years may cause reversible inhibition of bone growth ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) .
• Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea : Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Life - threatening hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported with XERAVA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
XERAVA is structurally similar to other tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs and should be avoided in patients with known hypersensitivity to tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs .
Discontinue XERAVA if an allergic reaction occurs .
5 . 2 Tooth Discoloration and Enamel Hypoplasia The use of XERAVA during tooth development ( last half of pregnancy , infancy and childhood to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - grey - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the tetracycline class drugs , but it has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported with tetracycline class drugs .
Advise the patient of the potential risk to the fetus if XERAVA is used during the second or third trimester of pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 3 Inhibition of Bone Growth The use of XERAVA during the second and third trimester of pregnancy , infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years may cause reversible inhibition of bone growth .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every 6 hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
Advise the patient of the potential risk to the fetus if XERAVA is used during the second or third trimester of pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial drug treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 6 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth XERAVA use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If such infections occur , discontinue XERAVA and institute appropriate therapy .
5 . 5 Tetracycline Class Adverse Reactions XERAVA is structurally similar to tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs and may have similar adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions including photosensitivity , pseudotumor cerebri , and anti ‑ anabolic action which has led to increased BUN , azotemia , acidosis , hyperphosphatemia , pancreatitis , and abnormal liver function tests , have been reported for other tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs , and may occur with XERAVA .
Discontinue XERAVA if any of these adverse reactions is suspected .
5 . 7 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing XERAVA in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section : • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Tooth Discoloration [ Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Inhibition of Bone Growth [ Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea [ Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Tetracycline Class Adverse Reactions [ Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % ) are infusion site reactions , nausea , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 833 - 7 - XERAVA ( 1 - 833 - 793 - 7282 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
XERAVA was evaluated in 3 active - controlled clinical trials ( Trial 1 , Trial 2 , and Trial 3 ) in adults with cIAI .
These trials included two Phase 3 trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) and one Phase 2 trial ( Trial 3 , NCT01265784 ) .
The Phase 3 trials included 520 patients treated with XERAVA and 517 patients treated with comparator antibacterial drugs ( ertapenem or meropenem ) .
The median age of patients treated with XERAVA was 56 years , ranging between 18 and 93 years old ; 30 % were age 65 years and older .
Patients treated with XERAVA were predominantly male ( 57 % ) and Caucasian ( 98 % ) .
The XERAVA - treated population included 31 % obese patients ( BMI ≥ 30 kg / m 2 ) and 8 % with baseline moderate to severe renal impairment ( calculated creatinine clearance 15 to less than 60 mL / min ) .
Among the trials , 66 ( 13 % ) of patients had baseline moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh B ) ; patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh C ) were excluded from the trials .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Treatment discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 2 % ( 11 / 520 ) of patients receiving XERAVA and 2 % ( 11 / 517 ) of patients receiving the comparator .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of XERAVA were related to gastrointestinal disorders .
Most Common Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions occurring at 3 % or greater in patients receiving XERAVA were infusion site reactions , nausea , and vomiting .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients receiving XERAVA and with incidences greater than the comparator in the Phase 3 cIAI clinical trials .
A similar adverse reaction profile was observed in the Phase 2 cIAI clinical trial ( Trial 3 ) .
Table 1 .
Selected Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 1 % of Patients Receiving XERAVA in the Phase 3 cIAI Trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) Adverse Reactions XERAVA a N = 520 n ( % ) Comparators b N = 517 n ( % ) Abbreviations : IV = intravenous a XERAVA dose equals 1 mg / kg every 12 hours IV .
b Comparators include ertapenem 1 g every 24 hours IV and meropenem 1 g every 8 hours IV .
c Infusion site reactions include : catheter / vessel puncture site pain , infusion site extravasation , infusion site hypoaesthesia , infusion / injection site phlebitis , infusion site thrombosis , injection site / vessel puncture site erythema , phlebitis , phlebitis superficial , thrombophlebitis , and vessel puncture site swelling .
Infusion site reactions c 40 ( 7 . 7 ) 10 ( 1 . 9 ) Nausea 34 ( 6 . 5 ) 3 ( 0 . 6 ) Vomiting 19 ( 3 . 7 ) 13 ( 2 . 5 ) Diarrhea 12 ( 2 . 3 ) 8 ( 1 . 5 ) Hypotension 7 ( 1 . 3 ) 2 ( 0 . 4 ) Wound dehiscence 7 ( 1 . 3 ) 1 ( 0 . 2 ) Other Adverse Reactions of XERAVA The following selected adverse reactions were reported in XERAVA - treated patients at a rate of less than 1 % in the Phase 3 trials : Cardiac disorders : palpitations Gastrointestinal System : acute pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions : chest pain Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity Laboratory Investigations : increased amylase , increased lipase , increased alanine aminotransferase , prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time , decreased renal clearance of creatinine , increased gamma - glutamyltransferase , decreased white blood cell count , neutropenia Metabolism and nutrition disorders : hypocalcemia Nervous System : dizziness , dysgeusia Psychiatric disorders : anxiety , insomnia , depression Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal System : pleural effusion , dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash , hyperhidrosis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers decreases the exposure of eravacycline .
Increase XERAVA dose with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer ( 2 . 3 , 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Strong CYP3A Inducers on XERAVA Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers decreases the exposure of eravacycline , which may reduce the efficacy of XERAVA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Increase XERAVA dose in patients with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Anticoagulant Drugs Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with XERAVA .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary XERAVA , like other tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs , may cause discoloration of deciduous teeth and reversible inhibition of bone growth when administered during the second and third trimester of pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) , Data , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The limited available data with XERAVA use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform drug ‑ associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriages .
Animal studies indicate that eravacycline crosses the placenta and is found in fetal plasma ; doses greater than approximately 3 - and 2 . 8 - times the clinical exposure , based on AUC in rats and rabbits , respectively , administered during the period of organogenesis , were associated with decreased ossification , decreased fetal body weight , and / or increased post - implantation loss [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits reported no treatment - related effects at approximately 3 and 2 . 8 times the clinical exposure ( based on AUC ) .
Dosing was during the period of organogenesis , i . e . , gestation days 7 - 17 in rats and gestation days 7 - 19 in rabbits .
Higher doses , approximately 8 . 6 and 6 . 3 times the clinical exposure ( based on AUC ) in rats and rabbits , respectively , were associated with fetal effects including increased post - implantation loss , reduced fetal body weights , and delays in skeletal ossification in both species , and abortion in the rabbit .
A peri - natal and post - natal rat toxicity study demonstrated that eravacycline crosses the placenta and is found in fetal plasma following intravenous administration to the dams .
This study did not demonstrate anatomical malformations , but there were early decreases in pup weight that were later comparable to controls and a non - significant trend toward increased stillbirths or dead pups during lactation .
F1 males from dams treated with 10 mg / kg / day eravacycline that continued to fertility testing had decreased testis and epididymis weights at approximately post - natal day 111 that may have been at least partially related to lower body weights in this group .
Tetracyclines cross the placenta , are found in fetal tissues , and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus ( often related to retardation of skeletal development ) .
Evidence of embryotoxicity also has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether XERAVA is excreted in human breast milk .
Eravacycline ( and its metabolites ) is excreted in the milk of lactating rats ( see Data ) .
Tetracyclines are excreted in human milk ; however , the extent of absorption of tetracyclines , including eravacycline , by the breastfed infant is not known .
There are no data on the effects of XERAVA on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Because there are other antibacterial drug options available to treat cIAI in lactating women and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including tooth discoloration and inhibition of bone growth , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with XERAVA and for 4 days ( based on half - life ) after the last dose .
Data Animal Data Eravacycline ( and its metabolites ) was excreted in the milk of lactating rats on post - natal day 15 following intravenous administration of 3 , 5 , and 10 mg / kg / day eravacycline .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Based on animal studies , XERAVA can lead to impaired spermiation and sperm maturation , resulting in abnormal sperm morphology and poor motility .
The effect is reversible in rats .
The long - term effects of XERAVA on male fertility have not been studied [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of XERAVA in pediatric patients have not been established .
Due to the adverse effects of the tetracycline - class of drugs , including XERAVA on tooth development and bone growth , use of XERAVA in pediatric patients less than 8 years of age is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients with cIAI who received XERAVA in Phase 3 clinical trials ( n = 520 ) , 158 subjects were ≥ 65 years of age , while 59 subjects were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of eravacycline were observed with respect to age in a population pharmacokinetic analysis of eravacycline [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is warranted for XERAVA in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh A and Child Pugh B ) .
Adjust XERAVA dosage in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child Pugh C ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary for XERAVA in patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No reports of overdose were reported in clinical trials .
In the case of suspected overdose , XERAVA should be discontinued and the patient monitored for adverse reactions .
Hemodialysis is not expected to remove significant quantities of XERAVA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION XERAVA contains eravacycline , a synthetic tetracycline - class antibacterial agent for intravenous administration .
Chemically , eravacycline is a C7 - , C9 - substituted sancycline derivative .
The chemical name of eravacycline dihydrochloride is [ ( 4 S , 4 a S , 5 a R , 12 a S ) - 4 - ( dimethylamino ) - 7 - fluoro - 3 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - tetrahydroxy - 1 , 11 - dioxo - 9 - [ 2 ‑ ( pyrrolidin - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide ] dihydrochloride .
The molecular formula for eravacycline dihydrochloride is C 27 H 31 FN 4 O 8 • 2 HCl , and its molecular weight is 631 . 5 .
The following represents the chemical structure of eravacycline dihydrochloride : [ MULTIMEDIA ] XERAVA is a sterile , preservative - free , yellow to orange , lyophilized powder in a glass single - dose vial for intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution .
XERAVA is supplied in two ( 2 ) strengths as follows : • Each 50 mg single - dose vial contains 50 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 63 . 5 mg of eravacycline dihydrochloride ) and the excipient , mannitol ( 150 mg ) .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid are used as needed for pH adjustment to 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
• Each 100 mg single - dose vial contains 100 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 127 mg of eravacycline dihydrochloride ) and the excipient , mannitol ( 150 mg ) .
Sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid are used as needed for pH adjustment to 5 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Eravacycline is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The AUC divided by the MIC of eravacycline has been shown to be the best predictor of activity .
Based on the flat exposure - response relationship observed in clinical studies , eravacycline exposure achieved with the recommended dosage regimen appears to be on the plateau of the exposure - response curve .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of XERAVA on the QTc interval was evaluated in a Phase 1 randomized , placebo and positive controlled , double - blind , single - dose , crossover thorough QTc study in 60 healthy adult subjects .
At the 1 . 5 mg / kg single dose ( 1 . 5 times the maximum approved recommended dose ) , XERAVA did not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following single - dose intravenous administration , eravacycline AUC and C max increase approximately dose - proportionally over doses from 1 mg / kg to 3 mg / kg ( 3 times the approved dose ) .
The mean exposure of eravacycline after single and multiple intravenous infusions ( approximately 60 minutes ) of 1 mg / kg administered to healthy adults every 12 hours is presented in Table 2 .
There is approximately 45 % accumulation following intravenous dosing of 1 mg / kg every 12 hours .
Table 2 Mean ( % CV ) Plasma Exposure of Eravacycline After Single and Multiple Intravenous Dose in Healthy AdultsAbbreviations : C max = maximum observed plasma concentration , CV = coefficient of variation ; AUC 0 - 12 = area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time 0 to 12 hours .
a AUC of day 1 equals AUC 0 - 12 after the first dose of eravacycline .
b AUC of day 10 equals steady state AUC 0 - 12 .
Exposure [ Arithmetic Mean ( % CV ) ] C max ( ng / mL ) AUC 0 - 12 ( ng ∙ h / mL ) Day 1 2125 ( 15 ) 4305 ( 14 ) a Day 10 1825 ( 16 ) 6309 ( 15 ) b Distribution Protein binding of eravacycline to human plasma proteins increases with increasing plasma concentrations , with 79 % to 90 % ( bound ) at plasma concentrations ranging from 100 to 10 , 000 ng / mL .
The volume of distribution at steady - state is approximately 321 L . Elimination The mean elimination half - life is 20 hours .
Metabolism Eravacycline is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 - and FMO - mediated oxidation .
Excretion Following a single intravenous dose of radiolabeled eravacycline 60 mg , approximately 34 % of the dose is excreted in urine and 47 % in feces as unchanged eravacycline ( 20 % in urine and 17 % in feces ) and metabolites .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of eravacycline were observed based on age ( 18 - 86 years ) , sex , and race .
Patients with Renal Impairment The geometric least square mean C max for eravacycline was increased by 8 . 8 % for subjects with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) versus healthy subjects with 90 % CI - 19 . 4 , 45 . 2 .
The geometric least square mean AUC 0 - inf for eravacycline was decreased by 4 . 0 % for subjects with ESRD versus healthy subjects with 90 % CI - 14 . 0 , 12 . 3 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Eravacycline C max was 13 . 9 % , 16 . 3 % , and 19 . 7 % higher in subjects with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A ) , moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) , and severe ( Child ‑ Pugh Class C ) hepatic impairment versus healthy subjects , respectively .
Eravacycline AUC 0 - inf was 22 . 9 % , 37 . 9 % , and 110 . 3 % higher in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe hepatic impairment versus healthy subjects , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Concomitant use of rifampin ( strong CYP3A4 / 3A5 inducer ) decreased eravacycline AUC by 35 % and increased eravacycline clearance by 54 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Concomitant use of itraconazole ( strong CYP3A inhibitor ) increased eravacycline C max by 5 % and AUC by 32 % , and decreased eravacycline clearance by 32 % .
In Vitro Studies Eravacycline is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 / 5 .
Eravacycline is not an inducer of CYP1A2 , 2B6 , or 3A4 .
Eravacycline is not a substrate for P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) , breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) , organic anion transporter peptide ( OATP ) 1B1 , OATP1B3 , organic ion transporter ( OAT ) 1 , OAT3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , multidrug and toxin extrusion ( protein ) ( MATE ) 1 , or MATE2 - K transporters .
Eravacycline is not an inhibitor of BCRP , BSEP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT1 , OCT2 , MATE1 , or MATE2 - K transporters .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Eravacycline is a fluorocycline antibacterial within the tetracycline class of antibacterial drugs .
Eravacycline disrupts bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30 S ribosomal subunit thus preventing the incorporation of amino acid residues into elongating peptide chains .
In general , eravacycline is bacteriostatic against gram - positive bacteria ( e . g . , Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis ) ; however , in vitro bactericidal activity has been demonstrated against certain strains of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae .
Resistance Eravacycline resistance in some bacteria is associated with upregulated , non - specific intrinsic multidrug - resistant ( MDR ) efflux , and target - site modifications such as to the 16 s rRNA or certain 30 S ribosomal proteins ( e . g . , S10 ) .
The C7 and C9 substitutions in eravacycline are not present in any naturally occurring or semisynthetic tetracyclines and the substitution pattern imparts microbiological activities including in vitro activity against gram - positive and gram - negative strains expressing certain tetracycline - specific resistance mechanism ( s ) [ i . e . , efflux mediated by tet ( A ) , tet ( B ) , and tet ( K ) ; ribosomal protection as encoded by tet ( M ) and tet ( Q ) ] .
Activity of eravacycline was demonstrated in vitro against Enterobacteriaceae in the presence of certain beta - lactamases , including extended spectrum β - lactamases , and AmpC .
However , some beta - lactamase - producing isolates may confer resistance to eravacycline via other resistance mechanisms .
The overall frequency of spontaneous mutants in the gram - positive organisms tested was in the range of 10 - 9 to 10 - 10 at 4 times the eravacycline Minimum Inhibitory Concentration ( MIC ) .
Multistep selection of gram - negative strains resulted in a 16 - to 32 - times increase in eravacycline MIC for one isolate of Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae , respectively .
The frequency of spontaneous mutations in K . pneumoniae was 10 - 7 to 10 ‑ 8 at 4 times the eravacycline MIC .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In vitro studies have not demonstrated antagonism between XERAVA and other commonly used antibacterial drugs for the indicated pathogens .
Antimicrobial Activity XERAVA has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : Aerobic bacteria Gram - positive bacteria Enterococcus faecalis Enterococcus faecium Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus anginosus group Gram - negative bacteria Citrobacter freundii Enterobacter cloacae Escherichia coli Klebsiella oxytoca Klebsiella pneumoniae Anaerobic bacteria Gram - positive bacteria Clostridium perfringens Gram - negative bacteria Bacteroides caccae Bacteroides fragilis Bacteroides ovatus Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron Bacteroides uniformis Bacteroides vulgatus Parabacteroides distasonis The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for eravacycline against isolates of similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of eravacycline in treating clinical infections caused by these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Aerobic bacteria Gram - positive bacteria Streptococcus salivarius group Gram - negative bacteria Citrobacter koseri Enterobacter aerogenes Susceptibility Test Methods For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria , and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with eravacycline have not been conducted .
However , there has been evidence of oncogenic activity in rats in studies with the related antibacterial drugs , oxytetracycline ( adrenal and pituitary tumors ) and minocycline ( thyroid tumors ) .
Eravacycline was not genotoxic in a standard battery of assays , including an in vitro mammalian cell mutation assay , an in vitro clastogenicity assay , and an in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
There are no human data on the effect of eravacycline on fertility .
Eravacycline did not affect mating or fertility in male rats following intravenous administration at a dose approximating a clinical dose of 0 . 65 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 5 times the clinical exposure , based on AUC determined in a separate study ) , however , eravacycline administration at higher doses was associated with adverse reactions on male fertility and spermatogenesis that were at least partially reversible after a 70 - day recovery period ( 1 spermatogenic cycle ) .
Decreased sperm counts , abnormal sperm morphology , and reduced sperm motility were observed with testicular effects ( impaired spermiation and sperm maturation ) .
There were no adverse reactions on mating or fertility in female rats administered intravenous eravacycline at a dose approximating a clinical dose of 3 . 2 mg / kg / day ( approximately 18 times the clinical exposure based on AUC determined in a separate study in unmated females ) .
Decreased sperm counts and eravacycline ‑ related lesions noted in the testes and epididymides were seen in general toxicology studies in rats and were reversible .
These findings were anticipated effects for a tetracycline - class compound .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In repeated dose toxicity studies in rats , dogs and monkeys , lymphoid depletion / atrophy of lymph nodes , spleen and thymus , decreased erythrocytes , reticulocytes , leukocytes , and platelets ( dog and monkey ) , in association with bone marrow hypocellularity , and adverse gastrointestinal effects ( dog and monkey ) were observed with eravacycline .
These findings were reversible or partially reversible during recovery periods of 3 to 7 weeks .
Bone discoloration , which was not fully reversible over recovery periods of up to 7 weeks , was observed in rats and monkeys after 13 weeks of dosing and in the juvenile rat study after dosing over post - natal days 21 - 70 .
Intravenous administration of eravacycline has been associated with a histamine response in rat and dog studies .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 2 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ( cUTI ) in Adults Two randomized , double - blind , active - controlled , clinical trials ( Trial 4 , NCT01978938 , and Trial 5 , NCT03032510 ) evaluated the efficacy and safety of once - daily intravenous eravacycline for the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ( cUTI ) .
Trial 4 included an optional switch from IV to oral therapy with eravacycline .
The trials did not demonstrate the efficacy of XERAVA for the combined endpoints of clinical cure and microbiological success in the microbiological intent - to - treat ( micro - ITT ) population at the test - of - cure visit [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
14 . 1 Complicated Intra - abdominal Infections in Adults A total of 1 , 041 adults hospitalized with cIAI were enrolled in two Phase 3 , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled , multinational , multicenter trials ( Trial 1 , NCT01844856 , and Trial 2 , NCT02784704 ) .
These studies compared XERAVA ( 1 mg / kg intravenous every 12 hours ) with either ertapenem ( 1 g every 24 hours ) or meropenem ( 1 g every 8 hours ) as the active comparator for 4 to 14 days of therapy .
Complicated intra - abdominal infections included appendicitis , cholecystitis , diverticulitis , gastric / duodenal perforation , intra - abdominal abscess , perforation of intestine , and peritonitis .
The microbiologic intent - to - treat ( micro - ITT ) population , which included all patients who had at least one baseline intra - abdominal pathogen , consisted of 846 patients in the two trials .
Populations in Trial 1 and Trial 2 were similar .
The median age was 56 years and 56 % were male .
The majority of patients ( 95 % ) were from Europe ; 5 % were from the United States .
The most common primary cIAI diagnosis was intra - abdominal abscess ( es ) , occurring in 60 % of patients .
Bacteremia at baseline was present in 8 % of patients .
Clinical cure was defined as complete resolution or significant improvement of signs or symptoms of the index infection at the Test of Cure ( TOC ) visit which occurred 25 to 31 days after randomization .
Selected clinical responses were reviewed by a Surgical Adjudication Committee .
Table 3 presents the clinical cure rates in the micro - ITT population .
Clinical cure rates at the TOC visit for selected pathogens are presented in Table 4 .
Table 3 Clinical Cure Rates at TOC in the Phase 3 cIAI Trials , Micro - ITT Population Trial 1 Trial 2 XERAVA a N = 220 n ( % ) Ertapenem b N = 226 n ( % ) XERAVA a N = 195 n ( % ) Meropenem c N = 205 n ( % ) Abbreviations : CI = confidence interval ; IV = intravenous ; micro - ITT = all randomized subjects who had baseline bacterial pathogens that caused cIAI and against at least one of which the investigational drug has in vitro antibacterial activity ; N = number of subjects in the micro - ITT population ; n = number within a specific category with a clinical cure based on the Surgical Adjudication Committee assessment ( if available ) ; TOC = Test of Cure .
a XERAVA dose equals 1 mg / kg every 12 hours IV .
b Ertapenem dose equals1 g every 24 hours IV c Meropenem dose equals 1 g every 8 hours IV .
d Treatment Difference = Difference in clinical cure rates ( eravacycline minus ertapenem or meropenem ) .
Confidence intervals are calculated using the unadjusted Miettinen - Nurminen method Clinical cure 191 ( 86 . 8 ) 198 ( 87 . 6 ) 177 ( 90 . 8 ) 187 ( 91 . 2 ) Difference ( 95 % CI ) d - 0 . 80 ( - 7 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) - 0 . 5 ( - 6 . 3 , 5 . 3 ) Table 4 Clinical Cure Rates at TOC by Selected Baseline Pathogens in Pooled Phase 3 cIAI Trials , Micro - ITT PopulationPathogen XERAVA a N = 415 n / N1 ( % ) Comparators b N = 431 n / N1 ( % ) Abbreviations : IV = intravenous ; N = Number of subjects in the micro - ITT Population ; N1 = Number of subjects with a specific pathogen ; n = Number of subjects with a clinical cure at the TOC visit .
Percentages are calculated as 100 × ( n / N1 ) ; TOC = Test of Cure a XERAVA dose equals 1 mg / kg every 12 hours IV .
b Comparators include Ertapenem 1 g every 24 hours IV and Meropenem 1 g every 8 hours IV .
c Includes Streptococcus anginosus , Streptococcus constellatus , and Streptococcus intermedius d Includes Bacteroides caccae , Bacteroides fragilis , Bacteroides ovatus , Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron , Bacteroides uniformis , Bacteroides vulgatus , Clostridium perfringens , and Parabacteroides distasonis .
Enterobacteriaceae 271 / 314 ( 86 . 3 ) 289 / 325 ( 88 . 9 ) Citrobacter freundii 19 / 22 ( 86 . 4 ) 8 / 10 ( 80 . 0 ) Enterobacter cloacae complex 17 / 21 ( 81 . 0 ) 23 / 24 ( 95 . 8 ) Escherichia coli 220 / 253 ( 87 . 0 ) 237 / 266 ( 89 . 1 ) Klebsiella oxytoca 14 / 15 ( 93 . 3 ) 16 / 19 ( 84 . 2 ) Klebsiella pneumoniae 37 / 39 ( 94 . 9 ) 42 / 50 ( 84 . 0 ) Enterococcus faecalis 45 / 54 ( 83 . 3 ) 47 / 54 ( 87 . 0 ) Enterococcus faecium 38 / 45 ( 84 . 4 ) 48 / 53 ( 90 . 6 ) Staphylococcus aureus 24 / 24 ( 100 . 0 ) 12 / 14 ( 85 . 7 ) Streptococcus anginosus group c 79 / 92 ( 85 . 9 ) 50 / 59 ( 84 . 7 ) Anaerobes d 186 / 215 ( 86 . 5 ) 194 / 214 ( 90 . 7 ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied XERAVA ( eravacycline ) for injection is a yellow to orange , sterile , preservative - free powder for reconstitution in single - dose 10 - mL clear glass vials with a rubber stopper and an aluminum overseal .
XERAVA is supplied in the following configurations : • XERAVA 50 mg vial contains 50 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 63 . 5 mg of eravacycline dihydrochloride ) .
Each vial is packaged in a single - dose vial carton ( NDC 71773 - 050 - 05 ) and supplied in a 12 - vial carton containing 12 single - dose vial cartons -- NDC 71773 - 050 - 12 .
• XERAVA 100 mg vial contains 100 mg of eravacycline ( equivalent to 127 mg of eravacycline dihydrochloride ) .
Each vial is packaged in a single - dose vial carton ( NDC 71773 - 100 - 05 ) and supplied in shrink wrap packaging , containing 12 single - dose vial cartons -- NDC 71773 - 100 - 12 .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Prior to reconstitution , XERAVA should be stored at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) [ see Dosage and Administration 2 . 4 ] .
Keep vial in carton until use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Serious Allergic Reactions Advise patients that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions , could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment .
Ask patient about any previous hypersensitivity reactions to antibacterial drugs including tetracycline or other allergens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Tooth Discoloration and Inhibition of Bone Growth Advise patients that XERAVA , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may cause permanent tooth discoloration of deciduous teeth and reversible inhibition of bone growth when administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy .
Advise patients that they should tell their healthcare provider right away if they become pregnant [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with XERAVA and for 4 days after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Diarrhea Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs , including XERAVA , which usually ends when the antibacterial drug is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial drug , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) which may be a sign of a more serious intestinal infection , even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial drug .
If this occurs , instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Tetracycline Class Adverse Reactions Inform patients that XERAVA is similar to tetracycline - class antibacterial drugs and may have similar adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Overgrowth of Non - susceptible Microorganisms Inform patients that antibacterial drugs including XERAVA may promote the overgrowth of non - susceptible microorganisms , including fungi [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Antibacterial Resistance Inform patients that antibacterial drugs including XERAVA should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( for example , the common cold ) .
When XERAVA is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by XERAVA or other antibacterial drugs in the future [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Distributed by : Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 XERAVA ® is a registered trademark of Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
© 2021 , Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 71773 - 050 - 05 Rx only XERAVA ® ( eravacycline ) for injection 50 mg per vial MUST BE RECONSTITUTED THEN DILUTED .
For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See Prescribing Information for complete directions for use .
1 Single - Dose Vial Not labeled for individual sale TETRAPHASE PHARMACEUTICALS Before reconstitution , refrigerate at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light ; keep vial in carton until use .
Transfer the reconstituted solution from the vial into the IV bag within 1 hour .
Use the diluted solution in the IV bag within 24 hours when stored at room temperature or within 10 days when stored refrigerated .
Discard unused portion .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter after reconstitution .
Each vial provides 50 mg eravacycline equivalent to 63 . 5 mg eravacycline dihydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients : mannitol , sodium hydroxide , and hydrochloric acid .
Sterile powder , preservative - free .
Distributed by : Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 USA Lot : Exp : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 71773 - 100 - 05 Rx only XERAVA ® ( eravacycline ) for injection 100 mg per vial MUST BE RECONSTITUTED THEN DILUTED .
For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See Prescribing Information for complete directions for use .
1 Single - Dose Vial Not labeled for individual sale TETRAPHASE PHARMACEUTICALS Each vial provides 100 mg eravacycline equivalent to 127 mg eravacycline dihydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients : mannitol , sodium hydroxide , and hydrochloric acid .
Sterile powder , preservative - free .
Before reconstitution , refrigerate at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light ; keep vial in carton until use .
Transfer the reconstituted solution into the IV bag within 1 hour .
Use the diluted solution in the IV bag within 24 hours when stored at room temperature or within 10 days when stored refrigerated .
Discard unused portion .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter after reconstitution .
Distributed by : Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 USA LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ]
