Active Ingredient Povidone - Iodine USP 10 % w / w ( equivalent to 1 . 0 % titratable iodine ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Antiseptic for preparation of skin • Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection • A broad spectrum antiseptic for topical application for preparation of skin prior to surgery Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes or mouth • on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine • over large areas of the body Stop use and ask doctor if irritation and redness develop or if condition persists for more than 72 hours .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • Deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For nasal application : Step 1 : Use tissue to clean inside of both nostrils , including inside tips of nostrils .
Discard tissue .
Using total of four swabsticks , perform Steps 2 - 6 two times for right nostril and two times for left nostril .
Step 2 : Hold applicator tube between thumb and forefinger at blue band with tube in vertical position with tip / handle up .
With the other hand , place thumb and forefinger at base of handle ( “ thumb - to - thumb ” ) .
Step 3 : Bend and snap open along break line .
Step 4 : Bend and snap in opposite direction to disconnect swabstick .
Step 5 : Remove swabstick from tube .
Discard tube .
Step 6 : Insert swabstick comfortably into one nostril .
For a total of 15 seconds , rotate swabstick around circumference of nostril and then rotate in the anterior nares for a minimum of 6 complete revolutions with slight pressure , covering all surfaces .
Discard swabstick .
Note : Do not blow nose .
If solution drips , gently wipe with a tissue .
Other information • For hospital and professional use • Store at room temperature ( 15 - 29 oC ; 59 - 84 oF ) • Avoid excessive heat Inactive Ingredients Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide Questions ?
call 1 - 800 - 999 - 6423 ( M - F 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . EST ) Principal Display Panel Profend Nasal Decolonization Kit Povidone - Iodine USP , 10 % w / w Antiseptic Non - sterile solution Swabstick [ MULTIMEDIA ] box [ MULTIMEDIA ] carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
