HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION These highlights do not include all the information needed to use ONDANSETRON TABLETS safely and effectively .
See full prescribing information for ONDANSETRON TABLETS .
ONDANSETRON tablets , for oral use Initial U . S . Approval : 1991 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of : nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen ( 1 ) postoperative nausea and / or vomiting ( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics ( 2 ) Patients with severe hepatic impairment : do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 4 mg , 8 mg , 16 mg and 24 mg ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS 3 .
Patients known to have hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation .
( 4 ) 4 .
Concomitant use of apomorphine ( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 .
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and bronchospasm : Discontinue ondansetron if suspected .
Monitor and treat promptly per standard of care until signs and symptoms resolve ( 5 . 1 ) 6 .
QT interval prolongation and Torsade de Pointes : Avoid in patients with congenital long QT syndrome ; monitor with electrocardiograms ( ECGs ) if concomitant electrolyte abnormalities , cardiac failure or arrhythmias , or use of other QT prolonging drugs .
( 5 . 2 ) 7 .
Serotonin syndrome : Reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs .
If such symptoms occur , discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment .
If concomitant use of ondansetron with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome .
( 5 . 3 ) 8 .
Masking of progressive ileus and / or gastric distention following abdominal surgery or chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting : Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
( 5 . 4 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in adults for the : 4 .
prevention of chemotherapy - induced ( greater than or equal to 5 % ) are : headache , malaise / fatigue , constipation , diarrhea ( 6 . 1 ) 5 .
prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) are : headache , constipation , and diarrhea ( 6 . 1 ) 6 .
prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting ( greater than or equal to 9 % ) are : headache and hypoxia ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 4 / 2021 TABLE OF CONTENTS FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage 2 . 2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions 5 . 2 QT Prolongation 5 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome 5 . 4 Masking of Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distension 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs 7 . 2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P - 450 Enzymes 7 . 3 Tramadol 7 . 4 Chemotherapy 7 . 5 Alfentanil and Atracurium 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Lactation 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment 8 . 7 Renal Impairment 9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 10 OVERDOSAGE 11 DESCRIPTION 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 1 3 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting 14 . 2 Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting 14 . 3 Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with : highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 .
initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2 , respectively .
Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets may be used interchangeably .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ondansetron tablets USP , 4 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) are white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 153 ” on other side .
Ondansetron tablets USP , 8 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) are yellow , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 154 ” on other side .
Ondansetron tablets USP , 16 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 16 mg of ondansetron ) are white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 155 ” on other side .
Ondansetron tablets USP , 24 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 24 mg of ondansetron ) are pink , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 156 ” on other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients : 1 .
known to have hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] 2 .
receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and bronchospasm , have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue use of ondansetron ; treat promptly per standard of care and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 QT Prolongation Electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes including QT interval prolongation have been seen in patients receiving ondansetron .
In addition , postmarketing cases of Torsade de Pointes have been reported in patients using ondansetron .
Avoid ondansetron in patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
ECG monitoring is recommended in patients with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia ) , congestive heart failure , bradyarrhythmias , or patients taking other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists alone .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of ondansetron alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of ondansetron and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if ondansetron is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 4 Masking of Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distension The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron , the active ingredient of ondansetron .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron was unclear in many cases .
Prevention of Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 4 % of 300 adults receiving a single 24 mg dose of ondansetron orally in 2 trials for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy ( cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 ) were : headache ( 11 % ) and diarrhea ( 4 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported in 4 trials in adults for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy ( primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens ) are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Most Common Adverse Reactions in Adultsa for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy [ Primarily Cyclophosphamide - based Regimens ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients treated with ondansetron and at a rate that exceeded placebo .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Central Nervous System : Extrapyramidal reactions ( less than 1 % of patients ) .
Hepatic : Aspartate transaminase ( AST ) and / or alanine transaminase ( ALT ) values exceeded twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of 723 patients receiving ondansetron and cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes is unclear .
Liver failure and death has been reported in cancer patients receiving concurrent medications , including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Integumentary : Rash ( approximately 1 % of patients ) .
Other ( less than 2 % ) : Anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron is unclear .
Prevention of Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) reported in patients receiving ondansetron and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron and concurrent chemotherapy and were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions reported in adults in trial ( s ) , of prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting are shown in Table 4 .
In these trial ( s ) patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications in both treatment groups .
Table 4 : Most Common Adverse Reactions in Adultsa for the Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients treated with ondansetron and at a rate that exceeded placebo .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ondansetron .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular Arrhythmias ( including ventricular and supraventricular tachycardia , premature ventricular contractions , and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , electrocardiographic alterations ( including second - degree heart block , QT / QTc interval prolongation , and ST segment depression ) , palpitations , and syncope .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
General General Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylactic reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
Hepatobiliary Liver enzyme abnormalities .
Lower Respiratory Hiccups .
Neurology Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions .
Skin Urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Eye Disorders Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P - 450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Tramadol Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small trials indicate that when used together , ondansetron may increase patient - controlled administration of tramadol .
Monitor patients to ensure adequate pain control when ondansetron is administered with tramadol .
7 . 4 Chemotherapy Carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover trial in 76 pediatric patients , intravenous ondansetron did not increase systemic concentrations of high - dose methotrexate .
7 . 5 Alfentanil and Atracurium Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data do not reliably inform the association of ondansetron and adverse fetal outcomes .
Published epidemiological studies on the association between ondansetron and fetal outcomes have reported inconsistent findings and have important methodological limitations hindering interpretation ( see Data ) .
Reproductive studies in rats and rabbits did not show evidence of harm to the fetus when ondansetron was administered during organogenesis at approximately 6 and 24 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , based on body surface area , respectively [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Methodological limitations of the epidemiology studies preclude a reliable evaluation of the potential risk of adverse fetal outcomes with the use of ondansetron in pregnancy .
Two large retrospective cohort studies of ondansetron use in pregnancy have been published .
In one study with 1 , 349 infants born to women who reported the use of ondansetron or received an ondansetron prescription in the first trimester , no increased risk for major congenital malformations was seen in aggregate analysis .
In this same study , however , a sub - analysis for specific malformations reported an association between ondansetron exposure and cardiovascular defect ( odds ratio ( OR ) 1 . 62 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 04 , 2 . 14 ) ] ) and cardiac septal defect ( OR 2 . 05 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 19 , 3 . 28 ) ] ) .
The second study examined 1970 women who received ondansetron prescription during pregnancy and reported no association between ondansetron exposure and major congenital malformations , miscarriage or stillbirth , and infants of low - birth weight or small for gestational age .
Important methodological limitations with these studies include the uncertainty of whether women who filled a prescription actually took the medication , the concomitant use of other medications or treatments , and other unadjusted confounders that may account for the study findings .
A case - control study evaluating associations between several common non - cardiac malformations and multiple antiemetic drugs reported an association between maternal use of ondansetron and isolated cleft palate ( reported adjusted OR = 2 . 37 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 18 , 4 . 76 ) ] ) .
However , this association could be a chance finding , given the large number of drugs - birth defect comparisons in this study .
It is unknown whether ondansetron exposure in utero in the cases of cleft palate occurred during the time of palate formation ( the palate is formed between the 6 th and 9 th weeks of pregnancy ) or whether mothers of infants with cleft palate used other medications or had other risk factors for cleft palate in the offspring .
In addition , no cases of isolated cleft palate were identified in the aforementioned 2 large retrospective cohort studies .
At this time , there is no clear evidence that ondansetron exposure in early pregnancy can cause cleft palate .
Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received oral doses of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
With the exception of a slight decrease in maternal body weight gain in the rabbits , there were no significant effects of ondansetron on the maternal animals or the development of the offspring .
At doses of 15 mg / kg / day in rats and 30 mg / kg / day in rabbits , the maternal exposure margin was approximately 6 and 24 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , respectively , based on body surface area .
In a pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity study , pregnant rats received oral doses of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day from Day 17 of pregnancy to litter Day 21 .
With the exception of a slight reduction in maternal body weight gain , there were no effects upon the pregnant rats and the pre - and postnatal development of their offspring , including reproductive performance of the mated F1 generation .
At a dose of 15 mg / kg / day in rats , the maternal exposure margin was approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , based on body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether ondansetron is present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of ondansetron on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
However , it has been demonstrated that ondansetron is present in the milk of rats .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ondansetron and any potential adverse effects on the breast fed infant from ondansetron or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of orally administered ondansetron have been established in pediatric patients 4 years and older for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
Use of ondansetron in these age - groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of ondansetron in adults with additional data from 3 open - label , uncontrolled , non - US trials in 182 pediatric patients aged 4 to 18 years with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Additional information on the use of ondansetron in pediatric patients may be found in ondansetron Injection prescribing information .
The safety and effectiveness of orally administered ondansetron have not been established in pediatric patients for : • prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy • prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy • prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 ( 19 % ) were aged 65 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects 65 years of age and older and younger subjects .
A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life were seen in patients older than 75 years compared with younger subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There were an insufficient number of patients older than 75 years of age and older in the clinical trials to permit safety or efficacy conclusions in this age - group .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment is needed in elderly patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced and the apparent volume of distribution is increased , resulting in a significant increase in the half - life of ondansetron .
Therefore , do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with any degree of renal impairment ( mild , moderate , or severe ) .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Animal studies have shown that ondansetron is not discriminated as a benzodiazepine nor does it substitute for benzodiazepines in direct addiction studies .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above , the following adverse reactions have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in one patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the adverse reactions resolved completely .
Pediatric cases consistent with serotonin syndrome have been reported after inadvertent oral overdoses of ondansetron ( exceeding estimated ingestion of 5 mg per kg ) in young children .
Reported symptoms included somnolence , agitation , tachycardia , tachypnea , hypertension , flushing , mydriasis , diaphoresis , myoclonic movements , horizontal nystagmus , hyperreflexia , and seizure .
Patients required supportive care , including intubation in some cases , with complete recovery without sequelae within 1 to 2 days .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in ondansetron tablets is ondansetron hydrochloride as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C18H19N3O • HCl • 2H2O , representing a molecular weight of 365 . 86 .
Ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in purified water and in alcohol , and slightly soluble in isopropyl alcohol , in dichloromethane , very slightly soluble in acetone , in chloroform and in ethyl acetate .
Each 4 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Each 8 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Each 16 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 16 mg of ondansetron .
Each 24 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 24 mg of ondansetron .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose 2910 ( 5 cP ) ( for the 4 mg and 16 mg tablets only ) and hypromellose 2910 ( 6 cP ) ( for the 8 mg and 24 mg tablets only ) , iron oxide red and iron oxide black ( for the 24 mg tablet only ) , iron oxide yellow ( for the 8 mg and 24 mg tablets only ) , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The molecular formula is C18H19N3O • HCl • 2H2O , representing a molecular weight of 365 . 86 .
Ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in purified water and in alcohol , and slightly soluble in isopropyl alcohol , in dichloromethane , very slightly soluble in acetone , in chloroform and in ethyl acetate .
Each 4 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Each 8 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Each 16 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 16 mg of ondansetron .
Each 24 mg ondansetron tablets USP for oral administration contains ondansetron HCl dihydrate USP equivalent to 24 mg of ondansetron .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose 2910 ( 5 cP ) ( for the 4 mg and 16 mg tablets only ) and hypromellose 2910 ( 6 cP ) ( for the 8 mg and 24 mg tablets only ) , iron oxide red and iron oxide black ( for the 24 mg tablet only ) , iron oxide yellow ( for the 8 mg and 24 mg tablets only ) , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Renal Impairment : Renal impairment is not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron as renal clearance represents only 5 % of the overall clearance .
However , the mean plasma clearance of ondansetron was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) .
The reduction in clearance was variable and not consistent with an increase in half - life [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared with 5 . 7 hours in healthy subjects .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies CYP 3A4 Inducers : Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic trial of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , a reduction in AUC , Cmax , and t ½ of ondansetron was observed .
This resulted in a significant increase in the clearance of ondansetron .
However , this increase is not thought to be clinically relevant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Chemotherapeutic Agents : Carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Antacids : Concomitant administration of antacids does not alter the absorption of ondansetron .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment Of Fertility Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 mg / kg per day and 30 mg / kg per day , respectively ( approximately 4 and 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg per day , based on body surface area ) .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg per day ( approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg per day , based on body surface area ) did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Prevention of Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy In 2 randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 in the historical placebo comparator , experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg as a single dose , 8 mg every 8 hours for 2 doses , and 32 mg as a single dose in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 .
The first or single dose was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group , completed the 24 hour trial period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron experienced no nausea during the 24 hour trial period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group ( P = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group .
Dosage regimens of ondansetron 8 mg twice daily and 32 mg once daily are not recommended for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In a second trial , efficacy of a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m2 , was confirmed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy A randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial was conducted in the US in 67 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing doxorubicin .
The first 8 mg dose of ondansetron was administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose , followed by 8 mg of ondansetron twice a day for 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy .
Ondansetron was significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 day trial period .
The results of this trial are summarized in Table 7 : Table 7 : Emetic Episodes - Treatment Response in Patients Receiving Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ( Cyclophosphamide - based Regimen Containing Doxorubicin ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] a Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes .
b Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
In a double - blind , US trial in 336 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin , ondansetron 8 mg administered twice a day , was as effective as ondansetron 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting .
ondansetron 8 mg three times daily is not a recommended regimen for the treatment of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 day trial period .
See Table 8 for the details of the dosage regimens studied and results of this trial .
Table 8 : Emetic Episodes - Treatment Response after Ondansetron Tablets Administered Twice a Day and Three Times a Day [ MULTIMEDIA ] a The first 8 mg dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose , followed by 8 mg administered twice a day for 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy .
b The first 8 mg dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent 8 mg doses at 4 hours and 8 hours after the first dose , followed by 8 mg administered 3 times a day for 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy .
c Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
d Visual analog scale assessment : 0 = no nausea , 100 = nausea as bad as it can be .
Re - treatment In single - arm trials , 148 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy were re - treated with ondansetron 8 mg three times daily during subsequent chemotherapy for a total of 396 re - treatment courses .
No emetic episodes occurred in 314 ( 79 % ) of the re - treatment courses , and only 1 to 2 emetic episodes occurred in 43 ( 11 % ) of the re - treatment courses .
Pediatric Trials Three open - label , single - arm , non - US trials have been performed with 182 pediatric patients aged 4 to 18 years with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens .
The initial dose of ondansetron injection ranged from 0 . 04 to 0 . 87 mg per kg ( total dose of 2 . 16 mg to 12 mg ) followed by the administration of oral doses of ondansetron ranging from 4 to 24 mg daily for 3 days .
In these trials , 58 % of the 170 evaluable patients had a complete response ( no emetic episodes ) on Day 1 .
In 2 trials , the response rates to ondansetron 4 mg three times a day in patients younger than 12 years was similar to ondansetron 8 mg three times daily in patients 12 to 18 years .
Prevention of emesis in these pediatric patients was essentially the same as for adults .
14 . 2 Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Total Body Irradiation In a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial in 20 patients , 8 mg of ondansetron administered 1 . 5 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy for 4 days was significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by total body irradiation .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions ( 120 cGy per fraction ) over 4 days for a total of 1 , 320 cGy .
Patients received 3 fractions for 3 days , then 2 fractions on Day 4 .
Single High - Dose Fraction Radiotherapy In an active - controlled , double - blind trial in 105 patients receiving single high - dose radiotherapy ( 800 to 1 , 000 cGy ) over an anterior or posterior field size of greater than or equal to 80 cm2 to the abdomen , ondansetron was significantly more effective than metoclopramide with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron ( 8 mg ) or metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy .
If radiotherapy was given in the morning , 8 mg of ondansetron or 10 mg of metoclopramide was administered in the late afternoon and repeated again before bedtime .
If radiotherapy was given in the afternoon , patients took 8 mg of ondansetron or 10 mg of metoclopramide only once before bedtime .
Patients continued the doses of oral medication three times daily for 3 days .
Daily Fractionated Radiotherapy In an active - controlled , double - blind trial in 135 patients receiving a 1 - to 4 - week course of fractionated radiotherapy ( 180 cGy doses ) over a field size of greater than or equal to 100 cm2 to the abdomen , ondansetron was significantly more effective than prochlorperazine with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron ( 8 mg ) or prochlorperazine ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before the first daily radiotherapy fraction , with subsequent 8 mg doses approximately every 8 hours on each day of radiotherapy .
14 . 3 Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting In 2 placebo - controlled , double - blind trials ( one conducted in the US and the other outside the US ) in 865 females undergoing inpatient surgical procedures , ondansetron 16 mg as a single dose or placebo was administered one hour before the induction of general balanced anesthesia ( barbiturate , opioid , nitrous oxide , neuromuscular blockade , and supplemental isoflurane or enflurane ) , ondansetron tablets was significantly more effective than placebo in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting .
No trials have been performed in males .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ondansetron Tablets Ondansetron tablets USP , 4 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) are white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 153 ” on other side and are supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1539 - 1 ONDANSETRON TABLETS USP 4 mg * ( 4 PACK ) HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Ondansetron Tablets Ondansetron tablets USP , 4 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) are white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 153 ” on other side and are supplied in bottles of 30 , 100 , 500 , unit - dose packages of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) and unit - dose packages of 3 ( 1 x 3 ) .
Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 6551 - 61 Ondansetron tablets USP , 8 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) are yellow , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossed “ R ” on one side and “ 154 ” on other side and are supplied in bottles of 30 , 100 , 500 , unit - dose packages of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) and unit - dose packages of 3 ( 1 x 3 ) .
Cartons of 100 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 10 ) , NDC 0904 - 6552 - 61 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Dispense in tight container as defined in the USP .
Store blisters in cartons .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION QT Prolongation Inform patients that ondansetron may cause serious cardiac arrhythmias such as QT prolongation .
Instruct patients to tell their healthcare provider right away if they perceive a change in their heart rate , if they feel lightheaded , or if they have a syncopal episode .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that ondansetron may cause hypersensitivity reactions , some as severe as anaphylaxis and bronchospasm .
Instruct patients to immediately report any signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions , including fever , chills , rash , or breathing problems to their healthcare provider .
Masking of Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distension Inform patients following abdominal surgery or those with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting that ondansetron may mask signs and symptoms of bowel obstruction .
Instruct patients to immediately report any signs or symptoms consistent with a potential bowel obstruction to their healthcare provider .
Drug Interactions • Instruct the patient to report the use of all medications , especially apomorphine , to their healthcare provider .
Concomitant use of apomorphine and ondansetron may cause a significant drop in blood pressure and loss of consciousness .
• Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of ondansetron and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms .
Rx Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Limited Bachupally - 500 090 INDIA Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number Revised : 1117 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1539 - 1 ONDANSETRON TABLETS USP 4 mg * ( 4 PACK ) 51662 - 1539 - 1 Ondansetron Tablets USP 4 mg * ( 4 PACK ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
