SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 10 % WASH ( sodium sulfacetamide 10 % ) RX Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Each mL contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide USP in a vehicle consisting of : ammonium lauryl sulfate , butylated hydroxytoluene , ceteareth - 25 , cetyl alcohol , cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , glycerin , guar gum , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , triacetin .
Chemically , it is Acetamide N - [ 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - , monosodium salt , monohydrate , with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium sulfacetamide is an odorless , white , crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , while practically insoluble in benzene , in chloroform and in ether .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic competition with para - aminobenzoic acid absorption of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown .
Organisms which show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses : seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca ( dandruff ) .
It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any of the ingredients of the product .
Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug - induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
Keep out of the reach of children .
For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
General : Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration , and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
If Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions , discontinue use of the preparation .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded , or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , potentially any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could occur and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
Patients should discontinue Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash if the condition becomes worse , or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever or sores in the mouth develop .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is incompatible with silver preparations .
Pharmacology Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash has a bacteriostatic effect against Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Chromosomal nondisjunction in the yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , following application of sodium sulfacetamide has been reported .
The significance of this finding to the topical use of sodium sulfacetamide in the human is unknown .
Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash .
It also is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is administered to a nursing woman .
Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome was reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The oral LD50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16 . 5 g / kg .
In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started Immediately .
Manifestations : Overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting .
Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria , crystalluria , and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract .
For treatment , contact your local Poison Control Center .
Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash : Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly / pat dry and repeat after 10 to 20 seconds .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for eight to ten days .
If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently .
Regular shampooing following Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is not necessary , but the hair should be shampooed at least once a week .
As the condition subsides , the interval between applications may be lengthened .
Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence .
Should the condition recur after stopping therapy , the application of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash should be reinitiated as at the beginning of treatment .
Secondary Cutaneous Bacterial Infections - Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed , massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication .
Repeat application as described for eight to ten days .
If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less often .
Sodium Sulfacetamide Wash 10 % is available in a 6 fl .
oz ( 170 mL ) bottle , NDC 69437 - 410 - 06 , and in a 12 oz ( 354 . 8 mL ) bottle , NDC 69437 - 410 - 12 .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Note : Store upright .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The wash may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Occasionally , a slight yellowish discoloration may occur when an excessive amount of the wash is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical information provided herein .
Manufactured in the U . S . A . for : Canton Laboratories , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30004 Rev . 09 / 21 INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses : seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca ( dandruff ) .
It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE : Wash affected areas twice daily ( morning and evening ) or as directed by your physician .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
See label booklet for complete product information .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRAVAGINAL OR OPHTHALMIC USE .
( KEEP AWAY FROM EYES ) KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion contact a poison control center immediately .
Keep container tightly closed .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Each mL contains 100 mg of sodium sulfacetamide USP in a vehicle consisting of : ammonium lauryl sulfate , butylated hydroxytoluene , ceteareth - 25 , cetyl alcohol , cocamidopropyl betaine , disodium EDTA , glycerin , guar gum , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , triacetin .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room .
Protect from freezing .
See bottle for lot number and expiration date .
Important Note : This bottle is not filled to the top but does contain 12 fl oz of product as identified on the front panel of the bottle .
NDC 69437 - 410 - 12 Rx Only For External Use Only Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % Wash 12 FL OZ ( 354 . 8 mL ) Manufactured in the U . S . A . for Canton Laboratories , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30004 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
