1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance .
The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 3 months in duration [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep maintenance .
( 1 , 14 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets should be individualized .
• • Initial dose : 6 mg , once daily for adults ( 2 . 1 ) and 3 mg , once daily for the elderly .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • • Take within 30 minutes of bedtime .
Total daily dose should not exceed 6 mg .
( 2 . 3 ) • • Should not be taken within 3 hours of a meal .
( 2 . 3 , 12 . 3 ) 2 . 1 .
Dosing in Adults The recommended dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets for adults is 6 mg once daily .
A 3 mg once daily dose may be appropriate for some patients , if clinically indicated .
2 . 2 .
Dosing in the Elderly The recommended starting dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets in elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years old ) is 3 mg once daily .
The daily dose can be increased to 6 mg , if clinically indicated .
2 . 3 .
Administration Doxepin hydrochloride tablets should be taken within 30 minutes of bedtime .
To minimize the potential for next day effects , doxepin hydrochloride tablets should not be taken within 3 hours of a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The total doxepin hydrochloride tablets dose should not exceed 6 mg per day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets are available containing 3 . 39 mg or 6 . 78 mg of doxepin hydrochloride , equivalent to 3 mg or 6 mg of doxepin , respectively .
• • The 3 mg tablets are blue , oval shaped , unscored tablets debossed with 3 on one side of the tablet and SP on the other side .
• • The 6 mg tablets are green , oval shaped , unscored tablets debossed with 6 on one side of the tablet and SP on the other side .
• • 3 mg and 6 mg tablets : Tablets not scored .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to doxepin hydrochloride , inactive ingredients , or other dibenzoxepines .
( 4 . 1 ) • • Co - administration with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) : Do not administer if patient is taking MAOIs or has used MAOIs within the past two weeks .
( 4 . 2 ) • • Untreated narrow angle glaucoma or severe urinary retention .
( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 .
Hypersensitivity Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to doxepin HCl , any of its inactive ingredients , or other dibenzoxepines .
4 . 2 . Co - administration with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors .
Do not administer doxepin hydrochloride tablets if patient is currently on MAOIs or has used MAOIs within the past two weeks .
The exact length of time may vary depending on the particular MAOI dosage and duration of treatment .
4 . 3 .
Glaucoma and Urinary Retention Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in individuals with untreated narrow angle glaucoma or severe urinary retention .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Need to Evaluate for Co - morbid Diagnoses : Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Abnormal thinking , behavioral changes , complex behaviors : May include “ Sleep - driving ” and hallucinations .
Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Depression : Worsening of depression or suicidal thinking may occur .
Prescribe the least amount feasible to avoid intentional overdose .
( 5 . 3 ) • • CNS - depressant effects : Use can impair alertness and motor coordination .
Avoid engaging in hazardous activities such as operating a motor vehicle or heavy machinery after taking drug .
( 5 . 4 ) Do not use with alcohol .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 3 ) • • Potential additive effects when used in combination with CNS depressants or sedating antihistamines .
Dose reduction may be needed .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 4 ) • • Patients with severe sleep apnea : Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are ordinarily not recommended for use in this population .
( 8 . 7 ) 5 . 1 .
Need to Evaluate for Comorbid Diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Exacerbation of insomnia or the emergence of new cognitive or behavioral abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with hypnotic drugs .
5 . 2 .
Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes Complex behaviors such as “ sleep - driving ” ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a hypnotic , with amnesia for the event ) have been reported with hypnotics .
These events can occur in hypnotic - naive as well as in hypnotic - experienced persons .
Although behaviors such as “ sleep - driving ” may occur with hypnotics alone at therapeutic doses , the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with hypnotics appears to increase the risk of such behaviors , as does the use of hypnotics at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose .
Due to the risk to the patient and the community , discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride tablets should be strongly considered for patients who report a “ sleep - driving ” episode .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a hypnotic .
As with “ sleep - driving ” , patients usually do not remember these events .
Amnesia , anxiety and other neuro - psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably .
5 . 3 .
Suicide Risk and Worsening of Depression In primarily depressed patients , worsening of depression , including suicidal thoughts and actions ( including completed suicides ) , has been reported in association with the use of hypnotics .
Doxepin , the active ingredient in doxepin hydrochloride tablets , is an antidepressant at doses 10 - to 100 - fold higher than in doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Risk from the lower dose of doxepin in doxepin hydrochloride tablets can not be excluded .
It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced , spontaneous in origin , or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder .
Nonetheless , the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation .
5 . 4 .
CNS Depressant Effects After taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets , patients should confine their activities to those necessary to prepare for bed .
Patients should avoid engaging in hazardous activities , such as operating a motor vehicle or heavy machinery , at night after taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets , and should be cautioned about potential impairment in the performance of such activities that may occur the day following ingestion .
When taken with doxepin hydrochloride tablets , the sedative effects of alcoholic beverages , sedating antihistamines , and other CNS depressants may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Patients should not consume alcohol with doxepin hydrochloride tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should be cautioned about potential additive effects of doxepin hydrochloride tablets used in combination with CNS depressants or sedating antihistamines [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of labeling : • • Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Suicide risk and worsening of depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • CNS Depressant effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • The most common treatment - emergent adverse reactions , reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with doxepin hydrochloride tablets , and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo , were somnolence / sedation , nausea , and upper respiratory tract infection .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 .
Clinical Trials Experience The pre - marketing development program for doxepin hydrochloride tablets included doxepin HCl exposures in 1017 subjects ( 580 insomnia patients and 437 healthy subjects ) from 12 studies conducted in the United States .
863 of these subjects ( 580 insomnia patients and 283 healthy subjects ) participated in six randomized , placebo - controlled efficacy studies with doxepin hydrochloride tablets doses of 1 mg , 3 mg , and 6 mg for up to 3 - months in duration .
Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
However , data from the doxepin hydrochloride tablets studies provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contributions of drug and non - drug factors to adverse reaction incidence rates in the populations studied .
Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment The percentage of subjects discontinuing Phase 1 , 2 , and 3 trials for an adverse reaction was 0 . 6 % in the placebo group compared to 0 . 4 % , 1 . 0 % , and 0 . 7 % in the doxepin hydrochloride tablets 1 mg , 3 mg , and 6 mg groups , respectively .
No reaction that resulted in discontinuation occurred at a rate greater than 0 . 5 % .
Adverse Reactions Observed at an Incidence of ≥ 2 % in Controlled Trials Table 1 shows the incidence of treatment - emergent adverse reactions from three long - term ( 28 to 85 days ) placebo - controlled studies of doxepin hydrochloride tablets in adult ( N = 221 ) and elderly ( N = 494 ) subjects with chronic insomnia .
Reactions reported by Investigators were classified using a modified MedDRA dictionary of preferred terms for purposes of establishing incidence .
The table includes only reactions that occurred in 2 % or more of subjects who received doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg or 6 mg in which the incidence in subjects treated with doxepin hydrochloride tablets was greater than the incidence in placebo - treated subjects .
Table 1 Incidence ( % ) of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions in Long - term Placebo - Controlled Clinical TrialsSystem Organ Class Preferred Term [ 1 ] Placebo ( N = 278 ) Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets 3 mg ( N = 157 ) Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets 6 mg ( N = 203 ) Nervous System Disorders • Somnolence / Sedation 4 6 9 Infections and Infestations • Upper Respiratory Tract Infection / Nasopharyngitis 2 4 2 • Gastroenteritis 0 2 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders • Nausea 1 2 2 Vascular Disorders • Hypertension 0 3 < 1 [ 1 ] Includes reactions that occurred at a rate of ≥ 2 % in any doxepin hydrochloride tablets - treated group and at a higher rate than placebo .
The most common treatment - emergent adverse reaction in the placebo and each of the doxepin hydrochloride tablets dose groups was somnolence / sedation .
6 . 2 .
Studies Pertinent to Safety Concerns for Sleep - promoting Drugs Residual Pharmacological Effect in Insomnia Trials Five randomized , placebo - controlled studies in adults and the elderly assessed next - day psychomotor function within 1 hour of awakening utilizing the digit - symbol substitution test ( DSST ) , symbol copying test ( SCT ) , and visual analog scale ( VAS ) for sleepiness , following night time administration of doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
In a one - night , double - blind study conducted in 565 healthy adult subjects experiencing transient insomnia , doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg showed modest negative changes in SCT and VAS .
In a 35 - day , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study of doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 and 6 mg in 221 adults with chronic insomnia , small decreases in the DSST and SCT occurred in the 6 mg group .
In a 3 - month , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study in 240 elderly subjects with chronic insomnia , doxepin hydrochloride tablets 1 mg and 3 mg was comparable to placebo on DSST , SCT , and VAS .
6 . 3 .
Other Reactions Observed During the Pre - marketing Evaluation of Silenor Doxepin hydrochloride tablets were administered to 1017 subjects in clinical trials in the United States .
Treatment - emergent adverse reactions recorded by clinical investigators were standardized using a modified MedDRA dictionary of preferred terms .
The following is a list of MedDRA terms that reflect treatment - emergent adverse reactions reported by subjects treated with doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Adverse reactions are further categorized by body system and listed in order of decreasing frequency according to the following definitions : Frequent adverse reactions are those that occurred on one or more occasions in at least 1 / 100 subjects ; Infrequent adverse reactions are those that occurred in fewer than 1 / 100 subjects and more than 1 / 1000 subjects .
Rare adverse reactions are those that occurred in fewer than 1 / 1000 subjects .
Adverse reactions that are listed in Table 1 are not included in the following listing of frequent , infrequent , and rare AEs .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Infrequent : anemia ; Rare : thrombocythemia .
Cardiac Disorders : Rare : atrioventricular block , palpitations , tachycardia , ventricular extrasystoles .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : Rare : ear pain , hypoacusis , motion sickness , tinnitus , tympanic membrane perforation .
Eye Disorders : Infrequent : eye redness , vision blurred ; Rare : blepharospasm , diplopia , eye pain , lacrimation decreased .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Infrequent : abdominal pain , dry mouth , gastroesophageal reflux disease , vomiting ; Rare : dyspepsia , constipation , gingival recession , haematochezia , lip blister .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Infrequent : asthenia , chest pain , fatigue ; Rare : chills , gait abnormal , edema peripheral .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Rare : hyperbilirubinemia .
Immune System Disorders : Rare : hypersensitivity .
Infections and Infestations : Infrequent : bronchitis , fungal infection , laryngitis , sinusitis , tooth infection , urinary tract infection , viral infection ; Rare : cellulitis staphylococcal , eye infection , folliculitis , gastroenteritis viral , herpes zoster , infective tenosynovitis , influenza , lower respiratory tract infection , onychomycosis , pharyngitis , pneumonia .
Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications : Infrequent : back injury , fall , joint sprain ; Rare : bone fracture , skin laceration .
Investigations : Infrequent : blood glucose increased ; Rare : alanine aminotransferase increased , blood pressure decreased , blood pressure increased , electrocardiogram ST - T segment abnormal , electrocardiogram QRS complex abnormal , heart rate decreased , neutrophil count decreased , QRS axis abnormal , transaminases increased .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Infrequent : anorexia , decreased appetite , hyperkalemia , hypermagnesemia , increased appetite ; Rare : hypokalemia .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Infrequent : arthralgia , back pain , myalgia , neck pain , pain in extremity ; Rare : joint range of motion decreased , muscle cramp , sensation of heaviness .
Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified ( Including Cysts and Polyps ) : Rare : lung adenocarcinoma stage I , malignant melanoma .
Nervous System Disorders : Frequent : dizziness ; Infrequent : dysgeusia , lethargy , parasthesia , syncope ; Rare : ageusia , ataxia , cerebrovascular accident , disturbance in attention , migraine , sleep paralysis , syncope vasovagal , tremor .
Psychiatric Disorders : Infrequent : abnormal dreams , adjustment disorder , anxiety , depression ; Rare : confusional state , elevated mood , insomnia , libido decreased , nightmare .
Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : Rare : breast cyst , dysmenorrhea .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Rare : dysuria , enuresis , hemoglobinuria , nocturia .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : Infrequent : nasal congestion , pharyngolaryngeal pain , sinus congestion , wheezing ; Rare : cough , crackles lung , nasopharyngeal disorder , rhinorrhea , dyspnea .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Infrequent : skin irritation ; Rare : cold sweat , dermatitis , erythema , hyperhidrosis , pruritis , rash , rosacea .
Surgical and Medical Procedures : Rare : arthrodesis .
Vascular Disorders : Infrequent : pallor ; Rare : blood pressure inadequately controlled , hematoma , hot flush .
In addition , the reactions below have been reported for other tricyclics and may be idiosyncratic ( not related to dose ) .
Allergic : photosensitization , skin rash .
Hematologic : agranulocytosis , eosinophilia , leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • MAO inhibitors : Doxepin hydrochloride tablets should not be administered in patients on MAOIs within the past two weeks .
( 4 . 2 ) • • Cimetidine : Increases exposure to doxepin .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Alcohol : Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin .
( 7 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • • CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines : Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin .
( 7 . 4 , 5 . 4 ) • • Tolazamide : A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 .
Cytochrome P450 Isozymes Doxepin hydrochloride is primarily metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 , and to a lesser extent , by CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 .
Inhibitors of these isozymes may increase the exposure of doxepin .
Doxepin hydrochloride is not an inhibitor of any CYP isozymes at therapeutically relevant concentrations .
The ability of doxepin hydrochloride to induce CYP isozymes is not known .
7 . 2 .
Cimetidine Doxepin hydrochloride exposure is doubled with concomitant administration of cimetidine , a nonspecific inhibitor of CYP isozymes .
A maximum dose of 3 mg is recommended in adults and elderly when cimetidine is co - administered with doxepin hydrochloride tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 .
Alcohol When taken with doxepin hydrochloride tablets , the sedative effects of alcohol may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 .
CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines When taken with doxepin hydrochloride tablets , the sedative effects of sedating antihistamines and CNS depressants may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 5 .
Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide ( 1 g / day ) 11 days after the addition of oral doxepin ( 75 mg / day ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • • Nursing Mothers : Infant exposure via human milk .
( 8 . 3 ) • • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness have not been evaluated .
( 8 . 4 ) • • Geriatric Use : The recommended starting dose is 3 mg .
Monitor prior to considering dose escalation .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 5 ) • • Use in Patients with Comorbid Illness : Initiate treatment with 3 mg in patients with hepatic impairment or tendency to urinary retention .
( 8 . 6 , 4 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of doxepin hydrochloride tablets in pregnant women .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Administration of doxepin to pregnant animals resulted in adverse effects on offspring development at doses greater than the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 6 mg / day .
When doxepin ( 30 , 100 and 150 mg / kg / day ) was administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , developmental toxicity ( increased incidences of fetal structural abnormalities and decreased fetal body weights ) was noted at ≥ 100 mg / kg / day .
The plasma exposures ( AUC ) at the no - effect dose for embryo - fetal developmental toxicity in rats ( 30 mg / kg / day ) are approximately 6 and 3 times the plasma AUCs for doxepin and nordoxepin ( the primary metabolite in humans ) , respectively , at the MRHD .
When administered orally to pregnant rabbits ( 10 , 30 and 60 mg / kg / day ) during the period of organogenesis , fetal body weights were reduced at the highest dose in the absence of maternal toxicity .
The plasma exposures ( AUC ) at the no - effect dose for developmental effects ( 30 mg / kg / day ) are approximately 6 and 18 times the plasma AUCs for doxepin and nordoxepin , respectively , at the MRHD .
Oral administration of doxepin ( 10 , 30 and 100 mg / kg / day ) to rats throughout the pregnancy and lactation periods resulted in decreased pup survival and transient growth delay at the highest dose .
The plasma exposures ( AUC ) at the no - effect dose for adverse effects on pre - and postnatal development in rats ( 30 mg / kg / day ) are approximately 3 and 2 times the plasma AUCs for doxepin and nordoxepin , respectively , at the MRHD .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effects of doxepin hydrochloride tablets on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Doxepin is excreted in human milk after oral administration .
There has been a report of apnea and drowsiness occurring in a nursing infant whose mother was taking the higher dose of doxepin used to treat depression .
Caution should be exercised when doxepin hydrochloride tablets are administered to nursing women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of doxepin hydrochloride tablets in pediatric patients have not been evaluated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 362 subjects who were ≥ 65 years and 86 subjects who were ≥ 75 years received doxepin hydrochloride tablets in controlled clinical studies .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger adult subjects .
Greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Sleep - promoting drugs may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly .
A starting dose of 3 mg is recommended in this population and evaluation prior to considering dose escalation is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment may display higher doxepin concentrations than healthy individuals .
Initiate doxepin hydrochloride tablets treatment with 3 mg in patients with hepatic impairment and monitor closely for adverse daytime effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Sleep Apnea Doxepin hydrochloride tablets have not been studied in patients with obstructive sleep apnea .
Since hypnotics have the capacity to depress respiratory drive , precautions should be taken if doxepin hydrochloride tablets are prescribed to patients with compromised respiratory function .
In patients with severe sleep apnea , doxepin hydrochloride tablets are ordinarily not recommended for use .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Doxepin is not a controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse Doxepin is not associated with abuse potential in animals or in humans .
Physicians should carefully evaluate patients for history of drug abuse and follow such patients closely , observing them for signs of misuse or abuse of doxepin ( e . g . , incrementation of dose , drug - seeking behavior ) .
9 . 3 Dependence In a brief assessment of adverse events observed during discontinuation of doxepin following chronic administration , no symptoms indicative of a withdrawal syndrome were observed .
Thus , doxepin does not appear to produce physical dependence .
10 OVERDOSAGE Doxepin is routinely administered for indications other than insomnia at doses 10 - to 50 - fold higher than the highest recommended dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
The signs and symptoms associated with doxepin use at doses several - fold higher than the maximum recommended dose ( Excessive dose ) of doxepin hydrochloride tablets for the treatment of insomnia are described [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 1 ) ] , as are signs and symptoms associated with higher multiples of the maximum recommended dose ( Critical overdose ) [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 2 ) ] .
10 . 1 .
Signs and Symptoms of Excessive Doses The following adverse effects have been associated with use of doxepin at doses higher than 6 mg .
Anticholinergic Effects : constipation and urinary retention .
Central Nervous System : disorientation , hallucinations , numbness , paresthesias , extrapyramidal symptoms , seizures , tardive dyskinesia .
Cardiovascular : hypotension .
Gastrointestinal : aphthous stomatitis , indigestion .
Endocrine : raised libido , testicular swelling , gynecomastia in males , enlargement of breasts and galactorrhea in the female , raising or lowering of blood sugar levels , and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion .
Other : tinnitus , weight gain , sweating , flushing , jaundice , alopecia , exacerbation of asthma , and hyperpyrexia ( in association with chlorpromazine ) .
10 . 2 .
Signs and Symptoms of Critical Overdose Manifestations of doxepin critical overdose include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression including coma .
Electrocardiogram changes , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic compound toxicity .
Other signs of overdose may include , but are not limited to : confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia .
10 . 3 .
Recommended Management As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
In addition , the possibility of a multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
If an overdose is suspected , an ECG should be obtained and cardiac monitoring should be initiated immediately .
The patient ’ s airway should be protected , an intravenous line should be established , and gastric decontamination should be initiated .
A minimum of six hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is strongly advised .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is recommended .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of overdose should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by administration of activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
Emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of an overdose .
Serum alkalinization , using intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 for patients with dysrhythmias and / or QRS widening .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mm Hg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in treatment of tricyclic compound poisoning .
Central Nervous System In patients with central nervous system depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or , if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital or phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up Since overdose often is deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of child and adult overdoses are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are available in 3 mg and 6 mg strength tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet contains 3 . 39 mg or 6 . 78 mg doxepin hydrochloride , equivalent to 3 mg and 6 mg of doxepin , respectively .
Chemically , doxepin hydrochloride is an ( E ) and ( Z ) geometric , isomeric mixture of 1 propanamine , 3 - dibenz [ b , e ] oxepin - 11 ( 6 H ) ylidene - N , N - dimethyl - hydrochloride .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Doxepin hydrochloride is a white crystalline powder , with a slight amine - like odor , that is readily soluble in water .
It has a molecular weight of 315 . 84 and molecular formula of C19 H21 NO • HCl .
Each doxepin hydrochloride tablet includes the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate .
The 3 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue No . 1 .
The 6 mg tablet also contains D & C Yellow No . 10 and FD & C Blue No . 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Doxepin binds with high affinity to the histamine H1 receptor ( Ki < 1 nM ) where it functions as an antagonist .
The exact mechanism by which doxepin exerts its sleep maintenance effect is unknown but is believed due to its antagonism of the H1 receptor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Safety In a thorough QTc prolongation clinical study in healthy subjects , doxepin had no effect on QT intervals or other electrocardiographic parameters after multiple daily doses up to 50 mg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The median time to peak concentrations ( Tmax ) of doxepin occurred at 3 . 5 hours postdose after oral administration of a 6 mg dose to fasted healthy subjects .
Peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of doxepin hydrochloride increased in approximately a dose - proportional manner for 3 mg and 6 mg doses .
The AUC was increased by 41 % and Cmax by 15 % when 6 mg doxepin hydrochloride tablets were administered with a high fat meal .
Additionally , compared to the fasted state , Tmax was delayed by approximately 3 hours .
Therefore , for faster onset and to minimize the potential for next day effects , it is recommended that doxepin hydrochloride tablets not be taken within 3 hours of a meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Distribution Doxepin hydrochloride is widely distributed throughout the body tissues .
The mean apparent volume of distribution following a single 6 mg oral dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets to healthy subjects was 11 , 930 liters .
Doxepin hydrochloride is approximately 80 % bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism Following oral administration , doxepin hydrochloride is extensively metabolized by oxidation and demethylation .
The primary metabolite is N - desmethyldoxepin ( nordoxepin ) .
The primary metabolite undergoes further biotransformation to glucuronide conjugates .
In vitro studies have shown that CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 are the major enzymes involved in doxepin metabolism , and that CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 are involved to a lesser extent .
Doxepin appears not to have inhibitory effects on human CYP enzymes at therapeutic concentrations .
The potential of doxepin to induce metabolizing enzymes is not known .
Doxepin is not a Pgp substrate .
Excretion Doxepin is excreted in the urine mainly in the form of glucuronide conjugates .
Less than 3 % of a doxepin dose is excreted in the urine as parent compound or nordoxepin .
The apparent terminal half - life ( t ½ ) of doxepin was 15 . 3 hours and for nordoxepin was 31 hours .
12 . 4 .
Drug Interactions Since doxepin is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 , inhibitors of these CYP isozymes may increase the exposure of doxepin .
Cimetidine The effect of cimetidine , a non - specific inhibitor of CYP1A2 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 , on doxepin hydrochloride plasma concentrations was evaluated in healthy subjects .
When cimetidine 300 mg BID was co - administered with a single dose of doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg , there was approximately a 2 - fold increase in doxepin hydrochloride Cmax and AUC compared to doxepin hydrochloride tablets given alone .
A maximum dose of doxepin in adults and elderly should be 3 mg , when doxepin is co - administered with cimetidine .
Sertraline The effect of sertraline HCl , a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor , on doxepin plasma concentrations was evaluated in a daytime study conducted with 24 healthy subjects .
Following co - administration of doxepin 6 mg with sertraline 50 mg ( at steady - state ) , the doxepin mean AUC and Cmax estimates were approximately 21 % and 32 % higher , respectively , than those obtained following administration of doxepin alone .
Psychomotor function as measured by the digit symbol substitution test and symbol copy test performance was decreased more at 2 - 4 hours post dosing for the combination of sertraline and doxepin as compared to doxepin alone , but subjective measures of alertness were comparable for the two treatments .
12 . 5 .
Special Populations Renal Impairment The effects of renal impairment on doxepin pharmacokinetics have not been studied .
Because only small amounts of doxepin and nordoxepin are eliminated in the urine , renal impairment would not be expected to result in significantly altered doxepin concentrations .
Hepatic Impairment The effects of doxepin hydrochloride tablets in patients with hepatic impairment have not been studied .
Because doxepin is extensively metabolized by hepatic enzymes , patients with hepatic impairment may display higher doxepin concentrations than healthy individuals .
Poor Metabolizers of CYPs Poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 may have higher doxepin plasma levels than normal subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed when doxepin was administered orally to hemizygous Tg . rasH2 mice for 26 weeks at doses of 25 , 50 , 75 and 100 mg / kg / day .
Mutagenesis Doxepin was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation , chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes ) and in vivo ( rat micronucleus ) assays .
Impairment of Fertility When doxepin ( 10 , 30 and 100 mg / kg / day ) was orally administered to male and female rats prior to , during and after mating , adverse effects on fertility ( increased copulatory interval and decreased corpora lutea , implantation , viable embryos and litter size ) and sperm parameters ( increased percentages of abnormal sperm and decreased sperm motility ) were observed .
The plasma exposures ( AUC ) for doxepin and nordoxepin at the no - effect dose for adverse effects on reproductive performance and fertility in rats ( 10 mg / kg / day ) are less than those in humans at the maximum recommended human dose of 6 mg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 .
Controlled Clinical Trials The efficacy of doxepin hydrochloride tablets for improving sleep maintenance was supported by six randomized , double - blind studies up to 3 months in duration that included 1 , 423 subjects , 18 to 93 years of age , with chronic ( N = 858 ) or transient ( N = 565 ) insomnia .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets were evaluated at doses of 1 mg , 3 mg , and 6 mg relative to placebo in inpatient ( sleep laboratory ) and outpatient settings .
The primary efficacy measures for assessment of sleep maintenance were the objective and subjective time spent awake after sleep onset ( respectively , objective Wake After Sleep Onset [ WASO ] and subjective WASO ) .
Subjects in studies of chronic insomnia were required to have at least a 3 - month history of insomnia .
Chronic Insomnia Adults A randomized , double - blind , parallel - group study was conducted in adults ( N = 221 ) with chronic insomnia .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg and 6 mg were compared to placebo out to 30 days .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg and 6 mg were superior to placebo on objective WASO .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg were superior to placebo on subjective WASO at night 1 only .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg were superior to placebo on subjective WASO at night 1 , and nominally superior at some later time points out to Day 30 .
Elderly Elderly subjects with chronic insomnia were assessed in two parallel - group studies .
The first randomized , double - blind study assessed doxepin hydrochloride tablets 1 mg and 3 mg relative to placebo for 3 months in inpatient and outpatient settings in elderly subjects ( N = 240 ) with chronic insomnia .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg were superior to placebo on objective WASO .
The second randomized , double - blind study assessed doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg relative to placebo for 4 weeks in an outpatient setting in elderly subjects ( N = 254 ) with chronic insomnia .
On subjective WASO , doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg was superior to placebo .
Transient Insomnia Healthy adult subjects ( N = 565 ) experiencing transient insomnia during the first night in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , single - dose study of doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg relative to placebo .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg were superior to placebo on objective WASO and subjective WASO .
Withdrawal Effects Potential withdrawal effects were assessed in a 35 - day double blind study of adults with chronic insomnia who were randomized to placebo , doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg , or doxepin hydrochloride tablets 6 mg .
There was no indication of a withdrawal syndrome after discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride tablets treatment ( 3 mg or 6 mg ) , as measured by the Tyrer ’ s Symptom Checklist .
Discontinuation - period emergent nausea and vomiting occurred in 5 % of subjects treated with 6 mg doxepin hydrochloride tablets , versus 0 % in 3 mg and placebo subjects .
Rebound Insomnia Effects Rebound insomnia , defined as a worsening in WASO compared with baseline following discontinuation of treatment , was assessed in a double - blind , 35 - day study in adults with chronic insomnia .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets 3 mg and 6 mg showed no evidence of rebound insomnia .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 .
How Supplied Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets are available containing 3 . 39 mg or 6 . 78 mg of doxepin hydrochloride equivalent to 3 mg or 6 mg of doxepin , respectively .
The 3 mg tablets are blue , oval shaped , unscored tablets debossed with 3 on one side of the tablet and SP on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 0378 - 4810 - 93 bottles of 30 tablets The 6 mg tablets are green , oval shaped , unscored tablets debossed with 6 on one side of the tablet and SP on the other side .
NDC 0378 - 4811 - 93 bottles of 30 tablets 16 . 2 .
Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Prescribers or other healthcare professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with hypnotics , should counsel them in appropriate use , and should instruct them to read the accompanying Medication Guide [ see Medication Guide ( 17 . 4 ) ] .
17 . 1 . Sleep - driving and Other Complex Behaviors There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a hypnotic and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If a patient experiences such an episode , it should be reported to his or her doctor immediately , since “ sleep - driving ” can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when a hypnotic is taken with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a hypnotic .
As with “ sleep - driving ” , patients usually do not remember these events .
In addition , patients should be advised to report all concomitant medications to the prescriber .
Patients should be instructed to report events such as “ sleep - driving ” and other complex behaviors immediately to the prescriber .
17 . 2 .
Suicide risk and Worsening of Depression : Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to worsening of depression , including suicidal thoughts and actions .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ’ s prescriber or health professional .
17 . 3 .
Administration Instructions Patients should be counseled to take doxepin hydrochloride tablets within 30 minutes of bedtime and should confine their activities to those necessary to prepare for bed .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets should not be taken with or immediately after a meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients NOT to take doxepin hydrochloride tablets when drinking alcohol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
17 . 4 .
Medication Guide Medication Guide Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets ( dox ′ e pin ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
After taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets , you may get up out of bed while not being fully awake and do an activity that you do not know you are doing .
The next morning , you may not remember that you did anything during the night .
You have a higher chance for doing these activities if you drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy with doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Reported activities include : • • driving a car ( “ sleep - driving ” ) • • making and eating food • • talking on the phone • • having sex • • sleep - walking Call your healthcare provider right away if you find out that you have done any of the above activities after taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Important : 1 .
Take doxepin hydrochloride tablets exactly as prescribed • • Do not take more doxepin hydrochloride tablets than prescribed .
• • Take doxepin hydrochloride tablets 30 minutes before bedtime .
After taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets , you should only do activities needed to get ready for bed .
2 .
Do not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets : • • with alcohol • • if you take other medicines that can make you sleepy .
Talk to your healthcare provider about all of your medicines .
Your healthcare provider will tell you if you can take doxepin hydrochloride tablets with your other medicines • • if you cannot get a full night of sleep before you must be active again What are doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets are a hypnotic ( sleep ) medicine that is used to treat people who have trouble staying asleep .
Who should not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
Do not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets if you : • • take a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) medicine or have taken an MAOI in the last 14 days ( 2 weeks ) .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if your medicine is an MAOI .
• • have an eye problem called narrow angle glaucoma that is not being treated • • have trouble urinating • • are allergic to any of the ingredients in doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Talk to your healthcare provider before taking this medicine if you have any of these conditions .
It is not known if doxepin hydrochloride tablets are safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
Before you take doxepin hydrochloride tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • • See “ Who should not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets ? ”
• • have a history of depression , mental illness , or suicidal thoughts • • have severe sleep apnea • • have kidney or liver problems • • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • • have a history of glaucoma or urinary retention • • have any other medical conditions • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if doxepin hydrochloride tablets will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• • are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Doxepin hydrochloride can pass into your milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
You should not breast - feed while taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how doxepin hydrochloride tablets work .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
See “ Who should not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets ? ”
• • cimetidine ( Tagamet ) or other medicines that can affect certain liver enzymes • • certain allergy medicines ( antihistamines ) or other medicines that can make you sleepy or affect your breathing • • the diabetes medicine tolazamide Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
• • Take doxepin hydrochloride tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take them .
• • Your doctor will tell you how many doxepin hydrochloride tablets to take and when to take them .
• • Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• • Take doxepin hydrochloride tablets within 30 minutes of bedtime .
After taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets , you should confine your activities to those necessary to prepare for bed .
• • Do not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets within 3 hours of a meal .
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets may not work as well , or may make you sleepy the next day if taken with or right after a meal .
• • Do not take doxepin hydrochloride tablets unless you are able to get a full night of sleep before you must be active again .
• • Call your doctor if your sleep problems get worse or do not get better within 7 to 10 days .
This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problem .
• • If you take too many doxepin hydrochloride tablets , call your doctor or get medical help right away .
What should I avoid while taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
• • You should not drink alcohol while taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Alcohol can increase your chances of getting serious side effects with doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
• • You should not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities after doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
You may still feel drowsy the next day after taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
Do not drive or do other dangerous activities after taking doxepin hydrochloride tablets until you feel fully awake .
What are the possible side effects of doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
Doxepin hydrochloride tablets can cause serious side effects including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about doxepin hydrochloride tablets ? ”
The most common side effect of doxepin hydrochloride tablets is drowsiness or tiredness .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
• • Store doxepin hydrochloride tablets between 68 ° and 77 ° F ( 20º to 25ºC ) .
• • Keep doxepin hydrochloride tablets in a tightly closed container , and away from light .
Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
• • Keep doxepin hydrochloride tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about doxepin hydrochloride tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use doxepin hydrochloride tablets for a condition for which they were not prescribed .
Do not share doxepin hydrochloride tablets with other people , even if you think they have the same symptoms that you have .
They may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about doxepin hydrochloride tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about doxepin hydrochloride tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) .
What are the ingredients in doxepin hydrochloride tablets ?
Active Ingredient : doxepin hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline cellulose , colloidal silicon dioxide , and magnesium stearate .
The 3 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue No . 1 .
The 6 mg tablet also contains FD & C Yellow No . 10 and FD & C Blue No . 1 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Revised : 10 / 2019 SP : SILEG : R1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 mg NDC 0378 - 4810 - 93 Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets 3 mg PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 30 Tablets Each tablet contains 3 . 39 mg doxepin hydrochloride , equivalent to 3 mg of doxepin .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Mylan . com RSP4810H1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 6 mg NDC 0378 - 4811 - 93 Doxepin Hydrochloride Tablets 6 mg PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only 30 Tablets Each tablet contains 6 . 78 mg doxepin hydrochloride , equivalent to 6 mg of doxepin .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Keep container tightly closed .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Mylan . com RSP4811H1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
