The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol .
• Sodium hydroxide • Water .
• other Inactive ingredients Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only - on hands .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • on open skin wounds or near eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if irritation or redness develops .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping .
• For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing .
• not recommended for infants Dosage and Administration Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping .
For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing .
not recommended for infants Other information • store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • do not store above 105 F • Avoid freezing • may discolor some fabrics • may be harmful to some wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients aloe inner leaf , green tea extract , glycerin , Carbomer , lavender oil , lemon oil , oregano oil , peppermint oil , rosemary oil , thyme oil , water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 mL NDC : 80335 - 105 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
