This is a hand sanitizer Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose Antiseptic Use Helps reduce bacteria that potentially may cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not avaiable .
Warnings For external use only .
- hands .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • do not use on open skin wounds or near eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water When using this product keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , fllush eyes thoroughly with water .
( See Stop use section : Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash lasts for longer than 72 hours ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a local Poison Control Center right away .
Discontinue use if irritation or rash occurs .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping • For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing • Not recommended for infants Other information • Do not store above 105 F • May discolor some fabrics • Harmful to wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients aloe vera inner leaf , green tea extract , carbomer 980 , lemon oil , lavender oil , peppermint oil , oregano oil , rosemary oil , thyme oil , sodium hydroxide , water Indications and Usage helps reduce bacteria that potentially cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing Not recommended for infants Indications and Usage To decrease bacteria on skin that could cause diease .
Recommended for repeated use .
Dosage and Administration Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping For children under 6 , use only under adult supervision Not recommended for infants Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
