The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Water .
• Other inactive ingredients .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose Antiseptic , Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
- on hands .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • on open skin wounds or near eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water When using this product keep out of eyes , and open wounds .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use if irritation or redness occurs .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a local Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use if irritation or redness occurs .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing not recommended for infants Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product , rub hands , and allow to dry without wiping For children under 6 years of age , use only under adult supervision to avoid swallowing not recommended for infants Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • do no store above above 105 F • avoid freezing • may discolor some fabrics • may be harmful to some wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients aloe vera inner leaf , green tea extract , lemongrass oil blend , rosemary oil , carbomer , glycerin , sodium hydroxide , water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 mL NDC : 80335 - 113 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
