Indications and Usage Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder .
The efficacy of bupropion in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in two 4 - week controlled trials of depressed inpatients and in one 6 - week controlled trial of depressed outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the Major Depression category of the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ( DSM ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
A major depressive episode ( DSM - IV ) implies the presence of 1 ) depressed mood or 2 ) loss of interest or pleasure ; in addition , at least 5 of the following symptoms have been present during the same 2 - week period and represent a change from previous functioning : depressed mood , markedly diminished interest or pleasure in usual activities , significant change in weight and / or appetite , insomnia or hypersomnia , psychomotor agitation or retardation , increased fatigue , feelings of guilt or worthlessness , slowed thinking or impaired concentration , a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation .
The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 44 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo - controlled trial ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Nevertheless , the physician who elects to use bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long - term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
Contraindications Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are contraindicated in patients with a seizure disorder .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are contraindicated in patients treated with ZYBAN # ( bupropion hydrochloride ) Sustained - release Tablets , bupropion hydrochloride tablets , the immediate - release formulation , bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( XL ) , the extended - release formulation , or any other medications that contain bupropion because the incidence of seizure is dose dependent .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa because of a higher incidence of seizures noted in patients treated for bulimia with the immediate - release formulation of bupropion .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol or sedatives ( including benzodiazepines ) .
The concurrent administration of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) and a monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor is contraindicated .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAO inhibitor and initiation of treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are contraindicated in patients who have shown an allergic response to bupropion or the other ingredients that make up bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
Warnings Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk in Treating Psychiatric Disorders : Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders , and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 to 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4 , 400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ’ s presenting symptoms .
Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for bupropion should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Neuropsychiatric Symptoms and Suicide Risk in Smoking Cessation Treatment : Bupropion hydrochloride tablets , bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , and bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( XL ) are not approved for smoking cessation treatment , but bupropion under the name ZYBAN # is approved for this use .
Serious neuropsychiatric symptoms have been reported in patients taking bupropion for smoking cessation ( see BOXED WARNING , ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
These have included changes in mood ( including depression and mania ) , psychosis , hallucinations , paranoia , delusions , homicidal ideation , hostility , agitation , aggression , anxiety , and panic , as well as suicidal ideation , suicide attempt , and completed suicide .
Some reported cases may have been complicated by the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal in patients who stopped smoking .
Depressed mood may be a symptom of nicotine withdrawal .
Depression , rarely including suicidal ideation , has been reported in smokers undergoing a smoking cessation attempt without medication .
However , some of these symptoms have occurred in patients taking bupropion who continued to smoke .
When symptoms were reported , most were during bupropion treatment , but some were following discontinuation of bupropion therapy .
These events have occurred in patients with and without pre - existing psychiatric disease ; some have experienced worsening of their psychiatric illnesses .
All patients being treated with bupropion as part of smoking cessation treatment should be observed for neuropsychiatric symptoms or worsening of pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Patients with serious psychiatric illness such as schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , and major depressive disorder did not participate in the pre - marketing studies of ZYBAN # .
Advise patients and caregivers that the patient using bupropion for smoking cessation should stop taking bupropion and contact a healthcare provider immediately if agitation , depressed mood , or changes in behavior or thinking that are not typical for the patient are observed , or if the patient develops suicidal ideation or suicidal behavior .
In many postmarketing cases , resolution of symptoms after discontinuation of ZYBAN # was reported , although in some cases the symptoms persisted , therefore , ongoing monitoring and supportive care should be provided until symptoms resolve .
The risks of using bupropion for smoking cessation should be weighed against the benefits of its use .
ZYBAN # has been demonstrated to increase the likelihood of abstinence from smoking for as long as six months compared to treatment with placebo .
The health benefits of quitting smoking are immediate and substantial .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder : A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that bupropion is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Bupropion - Containing Products Patients should be made aware that bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) contains the same active ingredient found in ZYBAN ® # , used as an aid to smoking cessation treatment , and that bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) should not be used in combination with ZYBAN ® # , or any other medications that contain bupropion hydrochloride , ( such as bupropion hydrochloride tablets , the immediate - release formulation or bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( XL ) , the extended - release formulation ) .
Seizures : Bupropion is associated with a dose - related risk of seizures .
The risk of seizures is also related to patient factors , clinical situations , and concomitant medications , which must be considered in selection of patients for therapy with bupropion .
Bupropion should be discontinued and not restarted in patients who experience a seizure while on treatment .
Dose : At doses of bupropion up to a dose of 300 mg / day , the incidence of seizure is approximately 0 . 1 % ( 1 / 1 , 000 ) and increases to approximately 0 . 4 % ( 4 / 1 , 000 ) at the maximum recommended dose of 400 mg / day .
Data for the immediate - release formulation of bupropion revealed a seizure incidence of approximately 0 . 4 % ( i . e . , 13 of 3 , 200 patients followed prospectively ) in patients treated at doses in a range of 300 to 450 mg / day .
The 450 mg / day upper limit of this dose range is close to the currently recommended maximum dose of 400 mg / day for bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
This seizure incidence ( 0 . 4 % ) may exceed that of other marketed antidepressants and bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) up to 300 mg / day by as much as 4 - fold .
This relative risk is only an approximate estimate because no direct comparative studies have been conducted .
Additional data accumulated for the immediate - release formulation of bupropion suggested that the estimated seizure incidence increases almost tenfold between 450 and 600 mg / day , which is twice the usual adult dose and one and one - half the maximum recommended daily dose ( 400 mg ) of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
This disproportionate increase in seizure incidence with dose incrementation calls for caution in dosing .
Data for bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) revealed a seizure incidence of approximately 0 . 1 % ( i . e . , 3 of 3 , 100 patients followed prospectively ) in patients treated at doses in a range of 100 to 300 mg / day .
It is not possible to know if the lower seizure incidence observed in this study involving the sustained - release formulation of bupropion resulted from the different formulation or the lower dose used .
However , as noted above , the immediate - release and sustained - release formulations are bioequivalent with regard to both rate and extent of absorption during steady state ( the most pertinent condition to estimating seizure incidence ) , since most observed seizures occur under steady - state conditions .
Patient factors : Predisposing factors that may increase the risk of seizure with bupropion use include history of head trauma or prior seizure , central nervous system ( CNS ) tumor , the presence of severe hepatic cirrhosis , and concomitant medications that lower seizure threshold .
Clinical situations : Circumstances associated with an increased seizure risk include , among others , excessive use of alcohol or sedatives ( including benzodiazepines ) ; addiction to opiates , cocaine , or stimulants ; use of over - the - counter stimulants and anorectics ; and diabetes treated with oral hypoglycemics or insulin .
Concomitant medications : Many medications ( e . g . , antipsychotics , antidepressants , theophylline , systemic steroids ) are known to lower seizure threshold .
Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Seizure : Retrospective analysis of clinical experience gained during the development of bupropion suggests that the risk of seizure may be minimized if the total daily dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) does not exceed 400 mg , the daily dose is administered twice daily , and the rate of incrementation of dose is gradual .
No single dose should exceed 200 mg to avoid high peak concentrations of bupropion and / or its metabolites .
Bupropion should be administered with extreme caution to patients with a history of seizure , cranial trauma , or other predisposition ( s ) toward seizure , or patients treated with other agents ( e . g . , antipsychotics , other antidepressants , theophylline , systemic steroids , etc . ) that lower seizure threshold .
Hepatic Impairment : Bupropion should be used with extreme caution in patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis .
In these patients a reduced frequency and / or dose is required , as peak bupropion , as well as AUC , levels are substantially increased and accumulation is likely to occur in such patients to a greater extent than usual .
The dose should not exceed 100 mg every day or 150 mg every other day in these patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Potential for Hepatotoxicity : In rats receiving large doses of bupropion chronically , there was an increase in incidence of hepatic hyperplastic nodules and hepatocellular hypertrophy .
In dogs receiving large doses of bupropion chronically , various histologic changes were seen in the liver , and laboratory tests suggesting mild hepatocellular injury were noted .
Precautions PLEASE VISIT THE FDA SITE FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF PRECAUTIONS AND STATISTICS : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 29848192 - 7de3 - 4c0d - a822 - 1268dcf128b0 Agitation and Insomnia Psychosis , Confusion , and Other Neuropsychiatric Phenomena Depressed patients treated with an immediate - release formulation of bupropion or with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) have been reported to show a variety of neuropsychiatric signs and symptoms , including delusions , hallucinations , psychosis , concentration disturbance , paranoia , and confusion .
In some cases , these symptoms abated upon dose reduction and / or withdrawal of treatment .
Activation of Psychosis and / or Mania : Antidepressants can precipitate manic episodes in bipolar disorder patients during the depressed phase of their illness and may activate latent psychosis in other susceptible patients .
Bupropion is expected to pose similar Altered Appetite and Weight Allergic Reactions : Anaphylactoid / anaphylactic reactions characterized by symptoms such as pruritus , urticaria , angioedema , and dyspnea requiring medical treatment have been reported in clinical trials with bupropion .
In addition , there have been rare spontaneous postmarketing reports of erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and anaphylactic shock associated with bupropion .
A patient should stop taking bupropion and consult a doctor if experiencing allergic or anaphylactoid / anaphylactic reactions ( e . g . , skin rash , pruritus , hives , chest pain , edema , and shortness of breath ) during treatment .
Arthralgia , myalgia , and fever with rash and other symptoms suggestive of delayed hypersensitivity have been reported in association with bupropion .
These symptoms may resemble serum sickness .
Cardiovascular Effects : In clinical practice , hypertension , in some cases severe , requiring acute treatment , has been reported in patients receiving bupropion alone and in combination with nicotine replacement therapy .
These events have been observed in both patients with and without evidence of preexisting hypertension .
Data from a comparative study of the sustained - release formulation of bupropion ( ZYBAN ® # Sustained - Release Tablets ) , nicotine transdermal system ( NTS ) , the combination of sustained - release bupropion plus NTS , and placebo as an aid to smoking cessation suggest a higher incidence of treatment - emergent hypertension in patients treated with the combination of sustained - release bupropion and NTS .
In this study , 6 . 1 % of patients treated with the combination of sustained - release bupropion and NTS had treatment - emergent hypertension compared to 2 . 5 % , 1 . 6 % , and 3 . 1 % of patients treated with sustained - release bupropion , NTS , and placebo , respectively .
The majority of these patients had evidence of preexisting hypertension .
Three patients ( 1 . 2 % ) treated with the combination of ZYBAN # and NTS and 1 patient ( 0 . 4 % ) treated with NTS had study medication discontinued due to hypertension compared to none of the patients treated with ZYBAN # or placebo .
Monitoring of blood pressure is recommended in patients who receive the combination of bupropion and nicotine replacement .
There is no clinical experience establishing the safety of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease .
Therefore , care should be exercised if it is used in these groups .
Bupropion was well tolerated in depressed patients who had previously developed orthostatic hypotension while receiving tricyclic antidepressants , and was also generally well tolerated in a group of 36 depressed inpatients with stable congestive heart failure ( CHF ) .
However , bupropion was associated with a rise in supine blood pressure in the study of patients with CHF , resulting in discontinuation of treatment in 2 patients for exacerbation of baseline hypertension .
Hepatic Impairment : Bupropion should be used with extreme caution in patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis .
In these patients , a reduced frequency and / or dose is required .
Bupropion should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment ( including mild - to - moderate hepatic cirrhosis ) and reduced frequency and / or dose should be considered in patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic cirrhosis .
All patients with hepatic impairment should be closely monitored for possible adverse effects that could indicate high drug and metabolite levels ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Renal Impairment : There is limited information on the pharmacokinetics of bupropion in patients with renal impairment .
An inter - study comparison between normal subjects and patients with end - stage renal failure demonstrated that the parent drug Cmax and AUC values were comparable in the 2 groups , whereas the hydroxybupropion and threohydrobupropion metabolites had a 2 . 3 - and 2 . 8 - fold increase , respectively , in AUC for patients with end - stage renal failure .
A second study , comparing normal subjects and patients with moderate - to - severe renal impairment ( GFR 30 . 9 ± 10 . 8 mL / min ) showed that exposure to a single 150 mg dose of sustained - release bupropion was approximately 2 - fold higher in patients with impaired renal function while levels of the hydroxybupropion and threo / erythrohydrobupropion ( combined ) metabolites were similar in the 2 groups .
Bupropion is extensively metabolized in the liver to active metabolites , which are further metabolized and subsequently excreted by the kidneys .
Bupropion should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment and a reduced frequency and / or dose should be considered as bupropion and the metabolites of bupropion may accumulate in such patients to a greater extent than usual .
The patient should be closely monitored for possible adverse effects that could indicate high drug or metabolite levels .
Adverse Reactions PLEASE VISIT THE FDA SITE FOR A COMPLETE LIST OF ADVERSE REACTIONS DURING TRIALS : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 29848192 - 7de3 - 4c0d - a822 - 1268dcf128b0 Incidence of Commonly Observed Adverse Events in Controlled Clinical Trials : Adverse events from Table 5 occurring in at least 5 % of patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) and at a rate at least twice the placebo rate are listed below for the 300 and 400 mg / day dose groups .
Bupropion 300 mg / day : Anorexia , dry mouth , rash , sweating , tinnitus , and tremor .
Bupropion 400 mg / day : Abdominal pain , agitation , anxiety , dizziness , dry mouth , insomnia , myalgia , nausea , palpitation , pharyngitis , sweating , tinnitus , and urinary frequency .
Other Events Observed During the Clinical Development and Postmarketing Experience of Bupropion : In addition to the adverse events noted above , the following events have been reported in clinical trials and postmarketing experience with the sustained - release formulation of bupropion in depressed patients and in nondepressed smokers , as well as in clinical trials and postmarketing clinical experience with the immediate - release formulation of bupropion .
Adverse events for which frequencies are provided below occurred in clinical trials with the sustained - release formulation of bupropion .
The frequencies represent the proportion of patients who experienced a treatment - emergent adverse event on at least one occasion in placebo - controlled studies for depression ( n = 987 ) or smoking cessation ( n = 1 , 013 ) , or patients who experienced an adverse event requiring discontinuation of treatment in an open - label surveillance study with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ( n = 3 , 100 ) .
All treatment - emergent adverse events are included except those listed in Tables 2 through 5 , those events listed in other safety - related sections , those adverse events subsumed under COSTART terms that are either overly general or excessively specific so as to be uninformative , those events not reasonably associated with the use of the drug , and those events that were not serious and occurred in fewer than 2 patients .
Events of major clinical importance are described in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections of the labeling .
Events are further categorized by body system and listed in order of decreasing frequency according to the following definitions of frequency : Frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients .
Infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients , while rare events are those occurring in less than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Adverse events for which frequencies are not provided occurred in clinical trials or postmarketing experience with bupropion .
Only those adverse events not previously listed for sustained - release bupropion are included .
The extent to which these events may be associated with bupropion is unknown .
Body ( General ) : Infrequent were chills , facial edema , musculoskeletal chest pain , and photosensitivity .
Rare was malaise .
Also observed were arthralgia , myalgia , and fever with rash and other symptoms suggestive of delayed hypersensitivity .
These symptoms may resemble serum sickness ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Cardiovascular : Infrequent were postural hypotension , stroke , tachycardia , and vasodilation .
Rare was syncope .
Also observed were complete atrioventricular block , extrasystoles , hypotension , hypertension ( in some cases severe , see PRECAUTIONS ) , myocardial infarction , phlebitis , and pulmonary embolism .
Digestive : Infrequent were abnormal liver function , bruxism , gastric reflux , gingivitis , glossitis , increased salivation , jaundice , mouth ulcers , stomatitis , and thirst .
Rare was edema of tongue .
Also observed were colitis , esophagitis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gum hemorrhage , hepatitis , intestinal perforation , liver damage , pancreatitis , and stomach ulcer .
Endocrine : Also observed were hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia , and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone .
Hemic and Lymphatic : Infrequent was ecchymosis .
Also observed were anemia , leukocytosis , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , pancytopenia , and thrombocytopenia .
Altered PT and / or INR , infrequently associated with hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications , were observed when bupropion was coadministered with warfarin .
Metabolic and Nutritional : Infrequent were edema and peripheral edema .
Also observed was glycosuria .
Musculoskeletal : Infrequent were leg cramps .
Also observed were muscle rigidity / fever / rhabdomyolysis and muscle weakness .
Nervous System : Infrequent were abnormal coordination , decreased libido , depersonalization , dysphoria , emotional lability , hostility , hyperkinesia , hypertonia , hypesthesia , suicidal ideation , and vertigo .
Rare were amnesia , ataxia , derealization , and hypomania .
Also observed were abnormal electroencephalogram ( EEG ) , akinesia , aggression , aphasia , coma , completed suicide , delirium , delusions , dysarthria , dyskinesia , dystonia , euphoria , extrapyramidal syndrome , hallucinations , hypokinesia , increased libido , manic reaction , neuralgia , neuropathy , paranoid ideation , restlessness , suicide attempt , and unmasking tardive dyskinesia .
Respiratory : Rare was bronchospasm .
Also observed was pneumonia .
Skin : Rare was maculopapular rash .
Also observed were alopecia , angioedema , exfoliative dermatitis , and hirsutism .
Special Senses : Infrequent were accommodation abnormality and dry eye .
Also observed were deafness , diplopia , increased intraocular pressure , and mydriasis .
Urogenital : Infrequent were impotence , polyuria , and prostate disorder .
Also observed were abnormal ejaculation , cystitis , dyspareunia , dysuria , gynecomastia , menopause , painful erection , salpingitis , urinary incontinence , urinary retention , and vaginitis .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Controlled Substance Class : Bupropion is not a controlled substance .
Humans : Controlled clinical studies of bupropion ( immediate - release formulation ) conducted in normal volunteers , in subjects with a history of multiple drug abuse , and in depressed patients showed some increase in motor activity and agitation / excitement .
In a population of individuals experienced with drugs of abuse , a single dose of 400 mg of bupropion produced mild amphetamine - like activity as compared to placebo on the Morphine - Benzedrine Subscale of the Addiction Research Center Inventories ( ARCI ) , and a score intermediate between placebo and amphetamine on the Liking Scale of the ARCI .
These scales measure general feelings of euphoria and drug desirability .
Findings in clinical trials , however , are not known to reliably predict the abuse potential of drugs .
Nonetheless , evidence from single - dose studies does suggest that the recommended daily dosage of bupropion when administered in divided doses is not likely to be especially reinforcing to amphetamine or stimulant abusers .
However , higher doses that could not be tested because of the risk of seizure might be modestly attractive to those who abuse stimulant drugs .
Animals : Studies in rodents and primates have shown that bupropion exhibits some pharmacologic actions common to psychostimulants .
In rodents , it has been shown to increase locomotor activity , elicit a mild stereotyped behavioral response , and increase rates of responding in several schedule - controlled behavior paradigms .
In primate models to assess the positive reinforcing effects of psychoactive drugs , bupropion was self - administered intravenously .
In rats , bupropion produced amphetamine - like and cocaine - like discriminative stimulus effects in drug discrimination paradigms used to characterize the subjective effects of psychoactive drugs .
Overdosage Human Overdose Experience : Overdoses of up to 30 g or more of bupropion have been reported .
Seizure was reported in approximately one - third of all cases .
Other serious reactions reported with overdoses of bupropion alone included hallucinations , loss of consciousness , sinus tachycardia , and ECG changes such as conduction disturbances ( including QRS prolongation ) or arrhythmias .
Fever , muscle rigidity , rhabdomyolysis , hypotension , stupor , coma , and respiratory failure have been reported mainly when bupropion was part of multiple drug overdoses .
Although most patients recovered without sequelae , deaths associated with overdoses of bupropion alone have been reported in patients ingesting large doses of the drug .
Multiple uncontrolled seizures , bradycardia , cardiac failure , and cardiac arrest prior to death were reported in these patients .
Overdosage Management : Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
EEG monitoring is also recommended for the first 48 hours post - ingestion .
General supportive and symptomatic measures are also recommended .
Induction of emesis is not recommended .
Activated charcoal should be administered .
There is no experience with the use of forced diuresis , dialysis , hemoperfusion , or exchange transfusion in the management of bupropion overdoses .
No specific antidotes for bupropion are known .
Due to the dose - related risk of seizures with bupropion , hospitalization following suspected overdose should be considered .
Based on studies in animals , it is recommended that seizures be treated with intravenous benzodiazepine administration and other supportive measures , as appropriate .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug involvement .
The physician should consider contacting a poison control center for additional information on the treatment of any overdose .
Telephone numbers for certified poison control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
Dosage and Administration General Dosing Considerations : It is particularly important to administer bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) in a manner most likely to minimize the risk of seizure ( see WARNINGS ) .
Gradual escalation in dosage is also important if agitation , motor restlessness , and insomnia , often seen during the initial days of treatment , are to be minimized .
If necessary , these effects may be managed by temporary reduction of dose or the short - term administration of an intermediate to long - acting sedative hypnotic .
A sedative hypnotic usually is not required beyond the first week of treatment .
Insomnia may also be minimized by avoiding bedtime doses .
If distressing , untoward effects supervene , dose escalation should be stopped .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) should be swallowed whole and not crushed , divided , or chewed .
Initial Treatment : The usual adult target dose for bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) is 300 mg / day , given as 150 mg twice daily .
Dosing with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) should begin at 150 mg / day given as a single daily dose in the morning .
If the 150 mg initial dose is adequately tolerated , an increase to the 300 mg / day target dose , given as 150 mg twice daily , may be made as early as day 4 of dosing .
There should be an interval of at least 8 hours between successive doses .
Increasing the Dosage Above 300 mg / day : As with other antidepressants , the full antidepressant effect of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) may not be evident until 4 weeks of treatment or longer .
An increase in dosage to the maximum of 400 mg / day , given as 200 mg twice daily , may be considered for patients in whom no clinical improvement is noted after several weeks of treatment at 300 mg / day .
Maintenance Treatment : It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode .
In a study in which patients with major depressive disorder , recurrent type , who had responded during 8 weeks of acute treatment with bupropion were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of bupropion ( 150 mg twice daily ) during 44 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase , longer - term efficacy was demonstrated ( see CLINICAL TRIALS under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Based on these limited data , it is unknown whether or not the dose of bupropion needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response .
Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Impaired Hepatic Function : Bupropion should be used with extreme caution in patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis .
The dose should not exceed 100 mg every day or 150 mg every other day in these patients .
Bupropion should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment ( including mild - to - moderate hepatic cirrhosis ) and a reduced frequency and / or dose should be considered in patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic cirrhosis ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Impaired Renal Function : Bupropion should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment and a reduced frequency and / or dose should be considered ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ) .
MEDICATION GUIDE Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP ( SR ) Read this Medication Guide carefully before you start using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
IMPORTANT : Be sure to read the three sections of this Medication Guide .
The first section is about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines ; the second section is about the risk of changes in thinking and behavior , depression and suicidal thoughts or actions with medicines used to quit smoking ; and the third section is entitled “ What Other Important Information Should I Know About Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( SR ) ? ”
Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and Other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions This section of the Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ’ s , healthcare provider about : all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness ( also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse irritability • new or worse depression • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • new or worse anxiety • acting on dangerous impulses • feeling very agitated or restless • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • panic attacks • other unusual changes in behavior or mood What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ’ s healthcare provider for more information .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) have not been studied in children under the age of 18 and is not approved for use in children and teenagers .
Quitting Smoking , Quit - Smoking Medications , Changes in Thinking and Behavior , Depression , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions This section of the Medication Guide is only about the risk of changes in thinking and behavior , depression and suicidal thoughts or actions with drugs used to quit smoking .
Although bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) is not a treatment for quitting smoking , it contains the same active ingredient ( bupropion hydrochloride ) as ZYBAN ® * which is used to help patients quit smoking .
Some people have had changes in behavior , hostility , agitation , depression , suicidal thoughts or actions while taking bupropion to help them quit smoking .
These symptoms can develop during treatment with bupropion or after stopping treatment with bupropion .
If you , your family member , or your caregiver notice agitation , hostility , depression , or changes in thinking or behavior that are not typical for you , or you have any of the following symptoms , stop taking bupropion and call your healthcare provider right away : • thoughts about suicide or dying • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • attempts to commit suicide • abnormal thoughts or sensations • new or worse depression • seeing or hearing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) • new or worse anxiety • feeling people are against you ( paranoia ) • panic attacks • feeling confused • feeling very agitated or restless • other unusual changes in behavior or mood • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses When you try to quit smoking , with or without bupropion , you may have symptoms that may be due to nicotine withdrawal , including urge to smoke , depressed mood , trouble sleeping , irritability , frustration , anger , feeling anxious , difficulty concentrating , restlessness , decreased heart rate , and increased appetite or weight gain .
Some people have even experienced suicidal thoughts when trying to quit smoking without medication .
Sometimes quitting smoking can lead to worsening of mental health problems that you already have , such as depression .
Before taking bupropion , tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had depression or other mental illnesses .
You should also tell your doctor about any symptoms you had during other times you tried to quit smoking , with or without bupropion .
What Other Important Information Should I Know About Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( SR ) ?
Seizures : There is a chance of having a seizure ( convulsion , fit ) with bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , especially in people : with certain medical problems .
who take certain medicines .
The chance of having seizures increases with higher doses of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
For more information , see the sections “ Who should not take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ? ”
and “ What should I tell my doctor before using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ? ”
Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions and all the medicines you take .
Do not take any other medicines while you are using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) unless your doctor has said it is okay to take them .
If you have a seizure while taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , stop taking the tablets and call your doctor right away .
Do not take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) again if you have a seizure .
High blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Some people get high blood pressure , that can be severe , while taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
The chance of high blood pressure may be higher if you also use nicotine replacement therapy ( such as a nicotine patch ) to help you stop smoking .
Severe allergic reactions .
Some people have severe allergic reaction to bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
Stop taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) and call your doctor right away if you get a rash , itching , hives , fever , swollen lymph glands , painful sores in the mouth or around the eyes , swelling of the lips or tongue , chest pain , or have trouble breathing .
These could be signs of a serious allergic reaction .
Unusual thoughts or behaviors .
Some patients have unusual thoughts or behaviors while taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , including delusions ( believe you are someone else ) , hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not there ) , paranoia ( feeling that people are against you ) , or feeling confused .
If this happens to you , call your doctor .
What is bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) ?
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with a certain type of depression called major depressive disorder .
Who should not take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Do not take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) if you have or had a seizure disorder or epilepsy .
are taking ZYBAN ® * ( used to help people stop smoking ) or any other medicines that contain bupropion hydrochloride , such as WELLBUTRIN ® * Tablets or WELLBUTRIN XL ® * Extended - Release Tablets .
Bupropion is the same active ingredient that is in bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
drink a lot of alcohol and abruptly stop drinking , or use medicines called sedatives ( these make you sleepy ) or benzodiazepines and you stop using them all of a sudden .
have taken within the last 14 days medicine for depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , such as NARDIL ® * ( phenelzine sulfate ) , PARNATE ® * ( tranylcypromine sulfate ) , or MARPLAN ® * ( isocarboxazid ) .
have or had an eating disorder such as anorexia nervosa or bulimia .
are allergic to the active ingredient in bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , bupropion , or to any of the inactive ingredients .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
What should I tell my doctor before using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Tell your doctor if you have ever had depression , suicidal thoughts or actions , or other mental health problems .
See “ Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and Other Serious Mental Illnesses , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions . ”
a . Tell your doctor about your other medical conditions including if you : are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) can harm your unborn baby .
are breastfeeding .
Bupropion passes through your milk .
It is not known if bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) can harm your baby .
have liver problems , especially cirrhosis of the liver .
have kidney problems .
have an eating disorder such as anorexia nervosa or bulimia .
have had a head injury .
have had a seizure ( convulsion , fit ) .
have a tumor in your nervous system ( brain or spine ) .
have had a heart attack , heart problems , or high blood pressure .
are a diabetic taking insulin or other medicines to control your blood sugar .
drink a lot of alcohol .
abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
• Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Many medicines increase your chances of having seizures or other serious side effects if you take them while you are using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
How should I take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Do not chew , cut , or crush bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
You must swallow the tablets whole .
Tell your doctor if you cannot swallow medicine tablets .
Take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) at the same time each day .
Take your doses of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) at least 8 hours apart .
You may take bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) with or without food .
If you miss a dose , do not take an extra tablet to make up for the dose you forgot .
Wait and take your next tablet at the regular time .
This is very important .
Too much bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) can increase your chance of having a seizure .
If you take too much bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) , or overdose , call your local emergency room or poison control center right away .
Do not take any other medicines while using bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) unless your doctor has told you it is okay .
It may take several weeks for you to feel that bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) is working .
Once you feel better , it is important to keep taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) exactly as directed by your doctor .
Call your doctor if you do not feel bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) is working for you .
Do not change your dose or stop taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) without talking with your doctor first .
What should I avoid while taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Do not drink a lot of alcohol while taking bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
If you usually drink a lot of alcohol , talk with your doctor before suddenly stopping .
If you suddenly stop drinking alcohol , you may increase your chance of having seizures .
Do not drive a car or use heavy machinery until you know how bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablet ( SR ) affects you .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) can impair your ability to perform these tasks .
What are possible side effects of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) can cause serious side effects .
Read this entire Medication Guide for more information about these serious side effects .
The most common side effects of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) are loss of appetite , dry mouth , skin rash , sweating , ringing in the ears , shakiness , stomach pain , agitation , anxiety , dizziness , trouble sleeping , muscle pain , nausea , fast heartbeat , sore throat , and urinating more often .
If you have nausea , take your medicine with food .
If you have trouble sleeping , do not take your medicine too close to bedtime .
These are not all the side effects of bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Store bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) at room temperature .
Store out of direct sunlight .
Keep bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) in its tightly closed bottle .
Bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) may have an odor .
General information about bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
Keep bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) out of the reach of children .
This Medication Guide summarizes important information about bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) .
For more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in bupropion hydrochloride extended - release tablets ( SR ) ?
Active ingredient : bupropion hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients : hydroxypropyl cellulose , saccharin , anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , stearic acid , polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide and polyethylene glycol 3350 .
* The following are registered trademarks of their respective manufacturers : NARDIL ® / Warner Lambert Company ; PARNATE ® / Glaxosmithkline MARPLAN ® / Oxford Pharmaceutical Services , Inc ; ZYBAN ® / Glaxosmithkline ; WELLBUTRIN ® / Glaxosmithkline ; WELLBUTRIN XL ® / Smithkline beecham .
LABEL DISPLAY NDC : 51655 - 003 - 52 MFG : 47335 - 737 - 13 Bupropion HCL ER 150 MG 30 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each extended - release tablet contains 150 mg bupropion HCL Dosage : See prescriber ' s instructions Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children Mfg : by : Sun Pharmaceutical Ind . , Ltd Gujarat , India Dstibuted by : Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories , Detroit , MI 48202 Lot # Exp : Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 51655 - 003 - 26 MFG : 47335 - 737 - 13 Bupropion HCL ER 150 MG 90 Tablets Rx Only Lot # : Exp .
Date : Each extended - release tablet contains 150 mg bupropion HCL Dosage : See prescriber ' s instructions Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children Mfg : by : Sun Pharmaceutical Ind . , Ltd Gujarat , India Dstibuted by : Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories , Detroit , MI 48202 Lot # Exp : Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
