1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • 125 mL Syringe : Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is indicated for use in flushing compatible contrast agents through Liebel - Flarsheim intravenous administration sets into indwelling intravascular access devices only when delivered by the following Liebel - Flarsheim power injectors : Angiomat ® , Illumena ® , Illumena ® Néo , CT9000 ® , CT9000 ® ADV , Optistat ® , Optivantage ® and Optistar Elite .
• For use in flushing compatible contrast agents through Liebel - Flarsheim intravenous administration sets into indwelling intravascular access devices ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The 125 mL syringe are for single patient use only .
• Determine the volume of the saline flush for each patient individually based , in part , on the imaging procedure , the location of the vascular access device , the length of tubing between the Liebel - Flarsheim contrast agent power injector and the vascular access device and the recommendations made on the package insert for the contrast agent .
Typical Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % flush volumes following contrast agent administration in adults are 10 to 25 mL per injection at rates not to exceed 10 mL / sec .
• Use of some Liebel - Flarsheim contrast agent power injectors allows for additional infusion of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % to maintain the patency of vascular access .
Typical infusion rates used for this purpose are in the range of 0 . 5 to 1 mL per minute .
• Individualize infusion rates and flush volumes for each patient based on their body weight , fluid status and concomitant medical conditions .
• Consult the Liebel - Flarsheim contrast agent power injector manual for proper use .
• For single patient use only .
( 2 ) • Determine the volume of flush based on the imaging procedure , location of the vascular access device , length of tubing between power injector and vascular access device , and the contrast agent package insert .
( 2 ) • Individualize the volume of flush based on body weight , fluid status and concomitant medical conditions .
( 2 ) • Typical flush volumes for adults are 10 to 25 mL per injection at rates not to exceed 10 mL / sec .
( 2 ) • May be used for additional infusion to maintain the patency of vascular access at a typical infusion rate of 0 . 5 to 1 mL per minute .
( 2 ) • Do not use if packaging is damaged , wet , or not intact , if syringe or its tip cap shows signs of damage , leakage or displacement .
Do not use if solution is hazy , cloudy , discolored , or contains particulate matter .
( 2 ) • Use aseptic technique .
( 2 ) • Expel residual air from the syringe and tubing prior to connection with the patient ’ s vascular access .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Drug Handling • Inspect the syringe for signs of break in sterility .
• Do not use if the syringe or its tip cap shows signs of damage , leakage or displacement .
• Do not use if the solution is hazy , cloudy , discolored or contains particulate matter .
• Use aseptic technique .
• Expel residual air in both the syringe and tubing prior to connection with the patient ’ s vascular access .
• Instructions for assembly and inspection of the Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % syringes prior to use are printed on this sheet .
2 . 2 125 mL Syringe Assembly and Inspection NOTE : Exterior of syringe is not sterile .
Contents of syringe and area under tip cap and piston ribs are sterile and should be treated accordingly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove syringe from carton and inspect the area around the tip cap and outside of piston for signs of leakage .
Do not use if leakage is observed .
Load syringe into power injector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To remove tip cap from syringe , push in and twist off , then discard .
The area under the cap is sterile .
Caution should now be used when handling .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Next remove cap from luer locknut dust cover by twisting to break tamper evident seal .
Discard cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Attach luer locknut to syringe by holding dust cover and screwing to the stop .
Remove and discard dust cover when ready to attach sterile connector tubing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sodium Chloride Injection USP ( 0 . 9 % ) • a clear , colorless , odorless solution • supplied in 125 mL prefilled syringes • contents are sterile • Supplied as a clear , colorless , odorless , sterile solution of Sodium Chloride 0 . 9 % for intravenous administration ( 3 ) • Supplied in 125 mL prefilled syringes ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Remove all air from the syringe and associated tubing prior to injection .
( 5 . 1 ) • May cause fluid overload in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states with edema , sodium retention , or hypernatremia .
( 5 . 3 ) • Establish intravascular catheter patency prior to administration .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Air Embolism Remove all air from the syringe and associated tubing prior to injection to avoid air embolus with the associated risk of stroke , organ ischemia and / or infarction , and death .
5 . 2 Infectious Complications Use of a damaged syringe or failure to maintain aseptic technique may result in infection , sepsis and death [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Fluid Overload Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % may cause fluid overload in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states with edema , sodium retention , or hypernatremia .
Consider each patient ’ s age , body weight , fluid status , concomitant medical conditions and planned radiological procedure to determine if use of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is appropriate .
5 . 4 Extravasation Extravasation of the Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % may cause mechanical compression of neurovascular structures .
Extravasation of contrast agent may result in tissue injury by osmolar and direct cytotoxicity ( see package inserts of specific contrast agents ) .
Establish intravascular catheter patency prior to the administration of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Reported adverse reactions include : • air embolization with stroke , chest pain , and dyspnea • arrhythmia • hypotension • myocardial infarction • sepsis • febrile response • local tenderness • infection at the site of injection • venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from injection site • extravasation • fluid overload • hypervolemia • Adverse reactions due to solution or administration technique may include : air embolism with stroke , chest pain , and dyspnea , arrhythmia , hypotension , myocardial infarction , sepsis , febrile response , local tenderness , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from injection site , extravasation , fluid overload and hypervolemia .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Liebel - Flarsheim Company LLC at 1 - 855 - 266 - 5037 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : It is not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % can cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) • Pediatrics : Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatrics : Dosing for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is not known to cause major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 .
% All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Appropriate administration of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is not known to cause harm to a breastfed infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % administered by power injection in pediatric patients have not been established .
Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % to pediatric patients by power injection is not recommended .
When performing manual injection of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % to pediatric patients , take into account the patient ’ s weight , fluid status , and concomitant medical conditions to determine if use of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is appropriate .
The safety of manual injection of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % in pediatric patients is supported by reported clinical experience with intravenous infusion and flush of sodium chloride injection in pediatric patients .
To minimize the risk of fluid overload , use the smallest dose of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % necessary for manually flushing contrast agent through the vascular access line .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No clinical studies of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % were conducted .
Other reported clinical experience with sodium chloride injection has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Use of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % may pose a threat of overdose marked by electrolyte disturbance and / or fluid overload , particularly in pediatric patients and patients with compromised renal or cardiac function .
In the event of overdosage , discontinue the infusion , reevaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective action .
11 DESCRIPTION Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is a formulation of sodium chloride in Water for Intravascular Injection .
No preservative , antimicrobial agent or buffer is added .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is provided as a sterile , nonpyrogenic , clear , colorless , odorless solution .
Molecular formula = NaCl MW = 58 . 44 Each mL of Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % contains 9 mg of sodium chloride .
The pH is 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
The osmolarity is 308 mOsm / L ( calc . )
.
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is provided in a 125 mL syringe with a 125 mL fill .
The syringes are for single patient use and are disposable and not meant for reuse .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % has an osmotic pressure similar to plasma .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is a clear , colorless , odorless solution containing 9 mg / mL of sodium chloride .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % is supplied in 125 mL prefilled syringes containing 125 mL of solution .
Each syringe is sealed with rubber closures and the contents are sterile .
The 125 mL syringe is supplied with a luer locknut adapter which is cleared for manufacture and distribution as a device under 510 ( K ) number 862653 .
The syringes are contained in shipping cartons with the following configurations : Volume Packaging NDC 125 mL in plastic syringes 20 syringes per carton 0019 - 1188 - 81 125 mL in plastic RFID - Tagged Syringes * 20 syringes per carton 0019 - 1188 - 27 * Radio Frequency Identification ( RFID ) Technology RFID - Tagged Syringe Description This information is for Ultraject ® syringes containing Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % that has been labeled with a Radio Frequency Identification ( RFID ) tag .
When used with an RFID - enabled Optivantage Injector , this tag allows for the exchange of product information such as lot number , expiration , concentration , and identification of the syringe as being unused prior to use and used after product administration .
Patient information is not utilized in any form with this RFID technology .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % product quality is not impacted with the use of this RFID tag .
Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % RFID syringes require no special handling and should be stored at the conditions listed for the drug product .
RFID - Tagged Syringe Directions for Use For the RFID technology to function , the syringe must be used with an Optivantage Injector with RFID technology .
Function of the RFID technology is not dependent on syringe orientation as it is placed in the injector .
Instructions for use of the injector are provided on the injector interface screens and operator ’ s manual .
If the RFID tag is damaged or otherwise non - functional , the injector will notify the user .
Should this occur , the Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % syringe with the non - functional RFID tag may still be used but no data will be transferred to the injector .
Regarding interference with medical devices , the RFID tag and injector system meet the IEC 60601 - 1 - 2 requirements for emission and immunity standards for medical devices .
Follow all manufacturers ’ guidelines and do not operate any part of the Optivantage Injector System and RFID - tagged syringes within 6 inches ( 15 cm ) of a pacemaker and / or defibrillator .
Storage Store Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % syringes and RFID - tagged syringes at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING Manufactured by : Liebel - Flarsheim Company LLC Raleigh , NC 27616 Made in USA GBT 11880919 Issued : 9 / 19 Guerbet PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 125 mL Syringe For Intravascular Use Sterile Solution NDC 0019 - 1188 - 81 125 mL Sodium Chloride Injection USP 0 . 9 % MEDICATION AND FLUID PATHWAY ARE STERILE .
OUTSIDE OF SYRINGE IS NOT STERILE .
SINGLE DOSE UNIT , DISCARD UNUSED PORTION .
EXPEL AIR BEFORE USE .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
Rx only Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Each mL contains 9 mg sodium chloride .
Dosage : See package insert .
Discard if syringe seal is broken or leakage is observed .
Manufactured by : Liebel - Flarsheim Company LLC Raleigh , NC 27616 Made in USA Guerbet 12070916 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
