ACTIVE INGREDIENT Sodium fluoride 0 . 0221 % ( Total Fluoride Content 1 , 000 ppm Approx . )
Dental type silica 17 . 50 % Potassium nirate 5 . 00 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , D - sorbitol solution , Concentrated glycerin , Xylitol , Enzymatically modified stevia , Hydroxyapatite , Taraxacum officinale extract , Turmeric root extract , Green tea extract , Calendula extract , Eucalyptus extract , Salvia officinalis ( sage ) extract , Aloe extract ( 09 ) , L - menthol , Herb mint flavor , Cooling flavor , Menthol pulegium oil , Sodium lauroyl sarcosinate , Sodium cocoyl glutamate , Purified water PURPOSE Anti plaque , Anticaries , Anticavity , Antihypersensitivity WARNINGS ■ When using this product , if irritation occurs discontinue use , Stop use and ask a dentist if ■ For children under 6 years of age , use small amounts of toothpaste .
under the supervision of a guardian to avoid sucking or swallowing .
■ Consult a physician or dentist immediately if a child under 6 years old has swallowed large quantities .
■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ■ Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age .
Uses ■ Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity ■ Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Directions ■ Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • Apply at least 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush • Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
■ Children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other Information ■ Do not store this product in an inappropriate place such as high or low temperatures or under direct sun light Questions https : / / docsmedi . kr Tel : 82 - 031 - 922 - 2240 , Fax : 82 - 43 - 883 - 2844 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
