Active ingredient Lidocaine 4 % Purpose Topical anesthetic Uses For temporary relief minor pain Warnings For external use only Do not use • more than one patch on your body at a time • on cut or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor if you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • if pouch is damaged or opened When using this product • use only as directed • read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • Do not allow contact with the eyes • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not microwave • Dispose of a used patch in a manner that always keeps the product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingest this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • conditions worsen • Redness is present • Irritation develops • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of an injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center 800 - 222 - 1222 right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • clean and dry affected area • carefully remove the backing from the patch starting at a corner • Apply the sticky side of patch to the affected area .
• Use one patch for up to 12 hours • Discard patch after single use Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other information • store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive ingredients aluminum glycinate , glycerin , kaolin , methylparaben , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , PVP , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water Questions or comments ?
Toll free 866 - 326 - 1313 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
