Active Ingredient & Purpose Active Ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone 1 % .................................................................... Antipruritic , External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , psoriasis , seborrheic dermatitis , insect bites , poison oak , or poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , and jewelry , and for external genital and feminine itching , and external analgesic .
Other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Any use of this product other than those listed above should be under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Directions For itching associated with skin irritation , inflammation and rashes : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : do not use - consult a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , Stearyl Alcohol , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Meadow Foam ( Limnanthes Alba ) Seed Oil , Shea Butter ( Butyrospermum Parkil ) Extract , Beeswax , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Germ Extract , Zea Mays ( Corn ) Starch , Silica , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter .
Questions or Comments ?
www . FixMySkin . com Info @ FixMySkin . com ( 402 ) 697 - 1100 Description Formulated by a board - certified dermatologist and his son .
Dr . Joel Schlessinger and his son , Daniel Schlessinger , embarked on a five year quest to find the best balm product in a stick formulation for dry skin and irritation .
After 54 different formulas , they finally came up with this patent pending formula .
It is great for dry skin and helps improve the signs and symptoms of dry skin due to eczema , medications , psoriasis and other dry skin conditions .
It is also available in the LovelySkin line without hydrocortisone ( www . LovelySkin . com / Balm ) .
Visit www . FixMySkin . com / Story for the whole story on how this product was developed .
Purpose Antipruritic , External Analgesic FixMySkin Healing Balm Unflavored 0 . 15 oz / 4 . 43 ml ( 76314 - 003 - 01 ) Representative Labeling [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
