Drug Facts Active ingredients Benzalkonium chloride Benzocaine Purpose Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % ...................................................
Topical Antiseptic Benzocaine 5 % ......................................................................... Topical Anesthetic Uses to treat cold sores / fever blisters Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product • more than 3 times per day • longer than 1 week unless directed by a physician • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a dentist or physician if • condition persists or worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days Ask a physician if • used to treat deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns • you are pregnant or nursing a baby When using this product you may feel a brief stinging when you apply it .
The sting should go away in a short time .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • slide - off to remove the protective blue paper cover and slide it on the other end - opposite the white applicator tip • squeeze the vial firmly on the arrow shown on the blue paper cap until you hear it snap • hold with the white applicator tip down to allow the medication to saturate the tip • to minimize pain during application gently touch the site of the cold sore with the saturated applicator tip • Once the area is numb , rub the site of the cold sore and the surrounding area .
Rub firmly to allow the treatment to deeply penetrate the skin • to treat most cold sores , multiple treatments may be required • discard after use • for best result ensure that lip area is free of lip preparations , lotions , ointments , residual beverages , or cosmetics , including lipstick Adults and children 2 years of age and older Do not use more than 3 times per day Children between 2 and 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Do not use Other information • store at room temperature • the ingredients in toothpaste , soft drinks , and some fruit juices can deactivate the active ingredient in this product • for best results , avoid brushing your teeth with toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for at least one hour after applying the drug • do not use if package is torn , cut or otherwise damaged Inactive ingredients isopropyl alcohol ( 70 % v / v ) , water Questions or comments ?
call us at 1 - 800 - 952 - 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm ET or visit our website at www . orajel . com NEW LOOK # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIEF BRAND FOR ADULTS BONUS 50 % MORE Orajel ™ COLD SORE PROVIDES IMMEDIATE , TARGETED PAIN RELIEF LIQUID FORMULA TOPICAL ANTISEPTIC TOPICAL ANESTHETIC CONTAINS 6 TREATMENT VIALS NET 0 . 12 FL OZ ( 3 . 5 mL ) TOTAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
