[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EPSOLAY is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea in adults .
EPSOLAY is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Before initial use , prime the pump until the first drop of cream is released .
• Apply a pea - sized amount of EPSOLAY once daily in a thin layer to each area of the face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) on clean and dry skin .
Avoid the eyes , lips and mouth .
• Wash hands after application .
• EPSOLAY may bleach hair or colored fabric .
• EPSOLAY is for topical use only .
Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Discard unused EPSOLAY 30 days after first use .
• Apply to the affected areas once daily .
( 2 ) • Wash hands after application .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 5 % .
Each gram of EPSOLAY contains 50 mg of benzoyl peroxide in a white to off - white base .
Cream , 5 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EPSOLAY is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in EPSOLAY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
A history of a serious hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any component of the formulation in EPSOLAY .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity : Severe hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and angioedema , have been reported with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
( 5 . 1 ) • Skin irritation / contact dermatitis : Erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging / burning , irritation and allergic contact dermatitis may occur with use of EPSOLAY and may necessitate discontinuation .
( 5 . 2 ) • Photosensitivity : Avoid or minimize exposure to natural or artificial sunlight and use sun protection measures .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , and urticaria , have been reported with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
If a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs , discontinue EPSOLAY immediately and initiate appropriate therapy .
5 . 2 Skin Irritation / Contact Dermatitis Erythema , scaling , dryness and stinging / burning may be experienced with use of EPSOLAY .
Irritation and contact dermatitis may occur .
Apply a moisturizer and discontinue EPSOLAY if symptoms do not improve .
Avoid application of EPSOLAY to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
5 . 3 Photosensitivity Benzoyl peroxide may increase sensitivity to sunlight .
Minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using EPSOLAY .
Instruct the patient to implement sun protection measures ( e . g . , sunscreen and loose - fitting clothes ) when sun exposure cannot be avoided .
Discontinue EPSOLAY at the first evidence of sunburn .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 1 % ) are application site reactions : pain , erythema , pruritis and edema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Galderma Laboratories , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials , adult subjects with rosacea applied EPSOLAY ( N = 488 ) or vehicle ( N = 234 ) once daily for 12 weeks .
The majority of subjects were Caucasian ( 93 % ) and female ( 73 % ) with a mean age of 51 years .
Table 1 presents the most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % of subjects treated with EPSOLAY and more frequently than in subjects treated with vehicle .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Subjects Treated with EPSOLAY and with Greater Frequency than Subjects Treated with Vehicle * Application site edema includes : application site swelling and application site edema EPSOLAY N = 488 Vehicle N = 234 Application site pain 11 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) Application site erythema 11 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) Application site pruritus 6 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Application site edema * 4 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) During the clinical trials , local tolerability evaluations were conducted at baseline and at each study visit by assessment of dryness , itching , scaling and stinging / burning .
Table 2 presents the local tolerability assessments by severity grade at Week 12 .
Table 2 : Facial Cutaneous Tolerability Assessment * Of the 488 subjects treated with EPSOLAY , 455 subjects had local tolerability assessments at Week 12 .
Sign / Symptom EPSOLAY N = 455 * Severity at Week 12 Mild Moderate Severe Dryness 25 % 7 % 0 % Itching 24 % 6 % 0 % Scaling 13 % 4 % 0 % Stinging / Burning 20 % 3 % 1 % In a 40 - week open - label extension safety study ( for a total of up to 52 weeks of treatment ) the frequency and severity of local tolerability signs and symptoms at Week 52 were comparable to those reported at Week 12 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The systemic exposure of benzoyl peroxide is unknown .
Based on the published literature , benzoyl peroxide is metabolized to benzoic acid ( an endogenous substance ) , which is eliminated in the urine .
Hence , maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with EPSOLAY or benzoyl peroxide .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of benzoyl peroxide in human milk , its effects on the breastfed infant or its effects on milk production .
The systemic exposure of benzoyl peroxide is unknown .
Based on the published literature , benzoyl peroxide is metabolized to benzoic acid ( an endogenous substance ) , which is eliminated in the urine .
Any amount of benzoyl peroxide excreted into human milk by a nursing mother would be expected to be metabolized by tissue and stomach esterases .
Therefore , breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to EPSOLAY .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for EPSOLAY and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from EPSOLAY or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of EPSOLAY for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 733 subjects in the clinical trials of EPSOLAY , 127 ( 17 % ) subjects were 65 and over , while 37 ( 3 % ) subjects were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION EPSOLAY ( benzoyl peroxide ) cream is for topical use .
Each gram of EPSOLAY contains 50 mg of benzoyl peroxide .
The chemical name for benzoyl peroxide is benzoyl benzenecarboperoxoate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C14H10O4 Molecular Weight : 242 . 23 The benzoyl peroxide in EPSOLAY is in a solid form that is incorporated into a microcapsule composed of silicon dioxide , cetrimonium chloride and polyquaternium - 7 .
EPSOLAY contains anhydrous citric acid , cetrimonium chloride , cetyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , edetate disodium , glycerin , hydrochloric acid , lactic acid , macrogol stearate Type I , mono and di - glycerides , phenoxyethanol , polyquaternium - 7 , purified water , silicon dioxide and sodium hydroxide as inactive ingredients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benzoyl peroxide is an oxidizing agent with bactericidal and keratolytic effects but the precise mechanism of action in the treatment of rosacea is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of EPSOLAY in the treatment of rosacea are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Benzoyl peroxide is absorbed by the skin where it is converted to benzoic acid , an endogenous substance , which is eliminated in the urine .
The systemic exposure of benzoyl peroxide following the application of EPSOLAY was not assessed .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and impairment of fertility studies were not conducted with EPSOLAY .
The role of benzoyl peroxide as a tumor promoter has been well established in several animal species .
However , the significance of this finding in humans is unknown .
No significant increase in tumor formation was observed in rats treated topically with a 15 to 25 % benzoyl peroxide carbopol gel ( 3 to 5 times the concentration of benzoyl peroxide in EPSOLAY ) for two years .
Similar results were obtained in mice topically treated with 25 % benzoyl peroxide gel for 56 weeks followed by intermittent treatment with 15 % benzoyl peroxide gel for rest of the 2 years study period and in mice topically treated with 5 % benzoyl peroxide gel for two years .
Bacterial mutagenicity assays ( Ames test ) conducted with benzoyl peroxide have provided mixed results ; mutagenic potential was observed in a few studies but not in a majority of investigations .
Benzoyl peroxide has been found to cause DNA strand breaks in a variety of mammalian cell types and to cause sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Fertility studies were not conducted with benzoyl peroxide .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of EPSOLAY was evaluated in two multicenter , randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled trials ( Trial 1 [ NCT03448939 ] and Trial 2 [ NCT03564119 ] ) in subjects with moderate - to - severe papulopustular rosacea .
The trials were conducted in 733 subjects , aged 18 years and older .
Subjects were treated once daily for 12 weeks with either EPSOLAY or vehicle cream .
Subjects were required to have a minimum of 15 to 70 total inflammatory lesions ( papules and / or pustules ) and no more than 2 nodules ( where a nodule was defined as a papule or pustule greater than 5 mm in diameter ) and an Investigator Global Assessment ( IGA ) score of 3 ( “ moderate ” ) or 4 ( “ severe ” ) at baseline .
Overall , 93 % of subjects were Caucasian , 73 % were female , and the mean age was 51 years ( ranged from 18 to 85 years ) .
At baseline , subjects had a mean inflammatory lesion count of 27 . 5 , 89 % were scored as moderate ( IGA = 3 ) , and 11 % scored as severe ( IGA = 4 ) .
The co - primary efficacy endpoints in both trials were the proportion of subjects with treatment success at Week 12 , defined as an IGA score of 0 ( “ clear ” ) or 1 ( “ almost clear ” ) with at least a two - grade reduction from baseline , and the absolute change from baseline in inflammatory lesion counts at Week 12 .
The results at Week 12 are presented in Table 3 .
EPSOLAY was more effective than vehicle cream on the co - primary efficacy endpoints starting from 4 weeks of treatment in both trials , see Figure 1 through Figure 4 .
Table 3 : Efficacy Results of EPSOLAY in Subjects with Moderate to Severe Papulopustular Rosacea at Week 12 * Investigator Global Assessment ( IGA ) success was defined as an IGA score of 0 ( “ clear ” ) or 1 ( “ almost clear ” ) with at least a two - grade reduction from baseline .
† Means presented in table are Least Square ( LS ) Means .
Trial 1 EPSOLAY Vehicle ( N = 243 ) ( N = 118 ) Trial 2 EPSOLAY Vehicle ( N = 250 ) ( N = 122 ) IGA Treatment Success * Difference from Vehicle ( 99 % CI ) 47 . 4 % 20 . 7 % 26 . 7 % ( 16 . 7 % , 36 . 8 % ) 49 . 2 % 28 . 2 % 21 . 0 % ( 10 . 7 % , 31 . 3 % ) Inflammatory Lesions Mean † Absolute Change Difference from Vehicle ( 95 % CI ) Mean † Percent Change Difference from Vehicle ( 95 % CI ) - 17 . 4 - 9 . 5 - 7 . 9 ( - 10 . 0 , - 5 . 9 ) - 68 . 2 % - 38 . 3 % - 29 . 9 % ( - 37 . 8 % , - 22 . 0 % ) - 20 . 3 - 13 . 3 - 6 . 9 ( - 9 . 0 , - 4 . 9 ) - 69 . 4 % - 46 . 0 % - 23 . 4 % ( - 30 . 5 % , - 16 . 3 % ) Figure 1 : IGA Success Rate Over Time in Trial 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : IGA Success Rate Over Time in Trial 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Mean Absolute Change in Inflammatory Lesion Counts from Baseline Over Time in Trial 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Mean Absolute Change in Inflammatory Lesion Counts from Baseline Over Time in Trial 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied EPSOLAY is a white to off - white cream supplied in an airless pump as follows : 30 gram pump : NDC 0299 - 5890 - 30 Storage and Handling • Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30ºC ( 59 ° F to 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• Keep away from heat .
• Do not freeze .
• Discard unused cream 30 days after first use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypersensitivity Inform patients that serious hypersensitivity reactions occurred with the use of benzoyl peroxide products .
If a patient experiences a serious hypersensitivity reaction , instruct patient to discontinue EPSOLAY immediately and seek medical help [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Skin Irritation / Contact Dermatitis Inform patients that EPSOLAY may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , dryness , stinging or burning .
Advise the patient to use a moisturizer for irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Photosensitivity Advise patients to minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial light ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) and to use sun protective measures , if patients need to be outdoors while using EPSOLAY [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients to apply EPSOLAY exactly as directed in a thin layer , avoiding the eyes , lips and mouth and to wash hands immediately after application .
Inform patients that EPSOLAY may bleach hair or colored fabric [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT SECTION Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Dallas , TX 75201 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P57267 - 0 PATIENT INFORMATION EPSOLAY ® ( ep ' soe lay ) ( benzoyl peroxide ) cream Important : EPSOLAY is for use on the skin only ( topical ) .
Do not use EPSOLAY in or on your mouth , eyes or vagina .
What is EPSOLAY ?
EPSOLAY is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat adults with pimples and bumps caused by a condition called rosacea .
It is not known if EPSOLAY is safe and effective in children .
Do not use EPSOLAY if you have had an allergic reaction to benzoyl peroxide or any of the ingredients in EPSOLAY .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in EPSOLAY .
Before using EPSOLAY , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have other skin problems , including eczema , cuts , or sunburn .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if EPSOLAY will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if EPSOLAY passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with EPSOLAY .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use EPSOLAY ?
• Use EPSOLAY exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Apply EPSOLAY to your face 1 time each day on clean and dry skin .
• Before you use EPSOLAY for the first time , prime the pump by pressing down until the first drop of cream is released .
• Use the pump to dispense a pea - size amount of EPSOLAY onto your fingertip .
Spread a thin layer over each area of your face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) .
Avoid contact with your eyes , lips and mouth .
• Wash your hands right away after applying EPSOLAY .
What should I avoid while using EPSOLAY ?
• Avoid using EPSOLAY on skin areas with cuts , abrasions , eczema , or on sunburned skin .
• Limit your time in sunlight .
Avoid sunlight or artificial sunlight such as sunlamps or tanning beds .
EPSOLAY may make your skin more sensitive to the sun and the light from sunlamps and tanning beds .
Use sun protection measures such as sunscreen and wear loose - fitting clothes that cover your skin while out in sunlight .
Stop using EPSOLAY if you get sunburn .
• Avoid getting EPSOLAY in your hair or on colored fabric .
EPSOLAY may bleach hair or colored fabric .
What are the possible side effects of EPSOLAY ?
EPSOLAY may cause serious side effects , including : • Allergic reactions .
Stop using EPSOLAY and get medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms during treatment with EPSOLAY : • hives , rash or severe itching • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue , or throat • trouble breathing or throat tightness • feeling faint , dizzy , or lightheaded • Skin irritation .
EPSOLAY may cause skin irritation such as redness , scaling , dryness , stinging , or burning .
You may use a moisturizer if you develop skin irritation .
Tell your healthcare provider if your symptoms do not improve , you may need to stop treatment with EPSOLAY .
• Sensitivity to sunlight .
See “ What should I avoid while using EPSOLAY ? ”
The most common side effects of EPSOLAY include pain , redness , itching , and swelling at application site .
These are not all the possible side effects with EPSOLAY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store EPSOLAY ?
• Store EPSOLAY at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep EPSOLAY away from heat .
• Do not freeze EPSOLAY .
• Throw away ( discard ) unused EPSOLAY 30 days after first use .
Keep EPSOLAY and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of EPSOLAY .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use EPSOLAY for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give EPSOLAY to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about EPSOLAY that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in EPSOLAY ?
Active ingredient : benzoyl peroxide Inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , cetrimonium chloride , cetyl alcohol , cyclomethicone , edetate disodium , glycerin , hydrochloric acid , lactic acid , macrogol stearate Type I , mono and di - glycerides , phenoxyethanol , polyquaternium - 7 , purified water , silicon dioxide and sodium hydroxide .
Marketed by GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Dallas , TX 75201 USA Made in Canada All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P57267 - 0 For more information , go to www . EPSOLAY . com or call GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 4 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 g Pump Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 0299 - 5890 - 30 EPSOLAY ® ( benzoyl peroxide ) cream , 5 % For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Package is not child - resistant .
Keep out of reach of children .
30 g Pump
