Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 07 / 2017 Contraindications , removed ( 4 ) 07 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) 07 / 2017 Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) 07 / 2017 Contraindications , removed ( 4 ) 07 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) 07 / 2017 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ChiRhoStim ® is indicated for the stimulation of : • pancreatic secretions , including bicarbonate , to aid in the diagnosis of pancreatic exocrine dysfunction .
• gastrin secretion to aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma , and • pancreatic secretions to facilitate the identification of the ampulla of Vater and accessory papilla during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) .
• ChiRhoStim ® is a secretin class hormone indicated for stimulation of : • pancreatic secretions , including bicarbonate , to aid in the diagnosis of exocrine pancreas dysfunction ( 1 ) • gastrin secretion to aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma ( 1 ) • pancreatic secretions to facilitate the identification of the ampulla of Vater and the accessory papilla during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) ( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 2 Preparation and Dosage Regimen The recommended dosage regimen of ChiRhoStim ® by indication is shown below in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 : Dosage by Indication Indication Recommended Dosage Regimen Stimulation of pancreatic secretions , including bicarbonate , to aid in the diagnosis of exocrine pancreas dysfunction 0 . 2 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute Stimulation of gastrin secretion to aid in diagnosis of gastrinoma 0 . 4 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute Stimulation of pancreatic secretions to facilitate the identification of the ampulla of Vater and accessory papilla during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) 0 . 2 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute Preparation of Recommended Dosage • ChiRhoStim ® is a lyophilized powder , which requires reconstitution prior to intravenous administration .
• Determine the number of vials needed for the prescribed dosage based on the patient ’ s weight and recommended dosage .
Follow these steps to determine the patient dose : • Total dose ( mcg ) = patient ’ s weight ( kg ) x prescribed dose ( mcg / kg ) .
• Total injection volume ( mL ) = total dose ( mcg ) divided by the concentration of the reconstituted solution ( 2 mcg / mL ) .
• Round the total injection volume to the nearest tenth of a mL .
• Total number of vials = total injection volume divided by the vial volume ( 8 mL ) .
• To reconstitute one 16 mcg vial : • Dissolve the contents of the ChiRhoStim ® 16 mcg vial in 8 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to yield a concentration of 2 mcg / mL .
• Shake vigorously to ensure dissolution .
• Inspect the reconstituted solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If particulate matter or discoloration is seen , discard the reconstituted solution .
• To reconstitute one 40 mcg vial : • Dissolve the contents of the ChiRhoStim ® 40 mcg vial in 10 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to yield a concentration of 4 mcg / mL .
• Shake vigorously to ensure dissolution .
• Inspect the reconstituted solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If particulate matter or discoloration is seen , discard the reconstituted solution .
• Repeat steps above to reconstitute additional vials , as needed , to administer the total dose .
• Use immediately after reconstitution and discard any unused portion .
2 . 3 Administration and Test Methods Stimulation testing with ChiRhoStim ® should only be performed by physicians with sufficient expertise .
Ensure that the institution has established normative ranges for pancreatic exocrine response .
Stimulation of Pancreatic Secretions , including Bicarbonate , to Aid in the Diagnosis of Exocrine Pancreas Dysfunction : Preparation : • Instruct patients to fast for at least 12 to 15 hours prior to beginning the test .
Sample Collection : [ performed using either the gastroduodenal / Dreiling tube ( fluoroscopic ) or endoscopic collection method ] • Gastroduodenal ( Dreiling ) Tube Collection Method • Pass a radiopaque , double - lumen gastroduodenal tube through the mouth using a guidewire .
• Under fluoroscopic guidance , place the opening of the proximal lumen in the gastric antrum and the opening of the distal lumen beyond the ampulla of Vater .
Confirm the tube positioning and secure the tube .
• Connect both the proximal ( gastric ) and distal ( duodenal ) lumens to low intermittent suction , and apply negative pressure of 25 to 40 mmHg to both lumens .
• Collect a sample of the duodenal contents and check the pH of the aspirate to verify tube position .
Proceed to next step if the duodenal aspirate has a pH of 6 or higher .
If the pH is less than 6 , reposition the tube .
• Collect a baseline sample of duodenal fluid for a 15 - minute period .
• Administer ChiRhoStim ® at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg body weight intravenously over 1 minute [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
For the 60 - minute period following the injection , collect four consecutive 15 - minute samples of duodenal fluid .
Clear the duodenal lumen of the tube with an injection of air after each 15 - minute sample collection .
Note that wide variation in aspirate volumes is indicative of incomplete aspiration between samples .
• Endoscopic Collection Method : Endoscopic Pancreatic Function Test ( ePFT ) • Administer a topical anesthetic spray to the posterior pharynx and place a bite block in the mouth .
• Perform a standard upper endoscopy by passing the endoscope into the stomach with the patient in the left lateral decubitus position .
• After gastric insufflation , aspirate all gastric fluid through the endoscope and discard .
• Pass the endoscope through the pylorus into small intestine and position the tip of the endoscope at the junction of the second and third portion of the duodenum .
• Aspirate duodenal fluid for several seconds to clear the residual gastric acid from the tube .
• Collect a baseline aspirate of duodenal fluid ( 3 to 5 mL ) from the post - bulbar duodenum .
• Administer ChiRhoStim ® at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg of body weight intravenously over 1 minute [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Starting 15 minutes after administration of ChiRhoStim ® , collect 4 timed duodenal fluid aspirates ( each 3 to 5 mL ) at 15 - minute intervals .
Keep the patient in the left lateral decubitus position throughout the procedure .
Sample Handling and Interpretation : • Place fluid specimens on ice for immediate measurement of bicarbonate concentration .
If samples will not be analyzed immediately , store fluid at – 80 ° C . • Peak bicarbonate concentrations of 80 to 130 mEq / L after administration indicate normal pancreatic exocrine function .
Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion to Aid in the Diagnosis of Gastrinoma : Preparation : • Instruct patients to fast for at least 12 hours prior to beginning the test .
Sample Collection : • Before administering ChiRhoStim ® , draw two blood samples for determination of fasting serum gastrin levels ( baseline values ) .
• Administer ChiRhoStim ® at a dose of 0 . 4 mcg / kg of body weight intravenously over 1 minute [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Collect post - injection blood samples after 1 , 2 , 5 , 10 , and 30 minutes for determination of serum gastrin concentrations .
Sample Interpretation : • Gastrinoma is strongly suspected in patients who show an increase in serum gastrin concentration of more than 110 picograms ( pg ) per mL over baseline levels on any of the post injection samples .
Stimulation of Pancreatic Secretions to Facilitate the Identification of the Ampulla of Vater and Accessory Papilla During Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) : When difficulty is encountered by the endoscopist in identifying the ampulla of Vater or in identifying the accessory papilla in patients with pancreas divisum : • Administer ChiRhoStim ® at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg of body weight intravenously over 1 minute [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Visible excretion of pancreatic fluid from the orifices of these papillae will enable their identification and facilitate cannulation .
• To avoid an incorrect stimulation test result , discontinue the following drugs for the recommended amount of time prior to administration of ChiRhoStim ® : • anticholinergic drugs : at least 5 half - lives .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • H2 - receptor antagonists : at least 2 days .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) • proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) : consult the prescribing information for specific PPIs .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) • The recommended dosage by indication is shown in the table : Indication Recommended Dosage Regimen ( 2 . 2 ) Stimulation of pancreatic secretions , including bicarbonate , to aid in the diagnosis of exocrine pancreas dysfunction 0 . 2 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute Stimulation of gastrin secretion to aid in diagnosis of gastrinoma 0 . 4 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute Stimulation of pancreatic secretions to facilitate the identification of the ampulla of Vater and accessory papilla during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) 0 . 2 mcg / kg by intravenous injection over 1 minute • Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the patient ’ s weight and prescribed dose ( 2 . 2 ) • ChiRhoStim ® must be reconstituted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection prior to administration ( 2 . 2 ) • See full prescribing information for complete information on exocrine test methods ( 2 . 3 ) DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 16 mcg or 40 mcg of human secretin as a white lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution .
For injection : 16 mcg or 40 mcg of human secretin as a lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution ( 3 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Patients with alcoholic or other liver disease may be hyperresponsive to stimulation with ChiRhoStim ® , masking the presence of coexisting pancreatic disease .
Consider additional testing and clinical assessments for aid in diagnosis .
• Hyporesponse to Secretin Stimulation Testing in Patients with Vagotomy , Inflammatory Bowel Disease or Receiving Anticholinergics : Discontinue anticholinergic drugs at least 5 half - lives prior to stimulation testing ; consider additional testing and clinical assessments for aid in diagnosis .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Hyperresponse to Secretin Stimulation Testing : Increased gastrin secretion in patients receiving H 2 - receptor antagonists or PPIs falsely suggesting gastrinoma ; discontinue co - administered drug prior to stimulation testing .
Increased pancreatic secretions in patients with alcoholic or other liver disease masking coexisting pancreatic disease ; consider additional testing and clinical assessments for aid in diagnosis .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed during the clinical trials of a drug cannot always be directly compared to the rates observed during the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the adverse reaction rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to ChiRhoStim ® in 531 patients from an open - label clinical trial .
The population consisted of patients aged 1 to 91 years , 185 males , 346 females , 480 Caucasians , 31 Blacks , 12 American Indians , 6 Hispanics , and 2 Asians with known or suspected diseases of the exocrine pancreas including chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer .
Most patients received a single dose of ChiRhoStim ® in a dose range of 0 . 2 mcg / kg to 0 . 4 mcg / kg .
The most common adverse reactions ( reported in at least 2 patients in the trial ) are listed in Table 2 .
TABLE 2 Adverse Reactions in at Least 2 Patients Treated with a Single - Dose of ChiRhoStim ® in a Clinical Trial Adverse Reaction ChiRhoStim ® Number of Patients N = 531 Nausea 9 Vomiting 3 Flushing 2 Upset stomach 2 Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 patients ) are nausea , vomiting , flushing , and upset stomach .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ChiRhoClin , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 272 - 4888 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Revised : 07 / 2017 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Hyporesponse with Anticholinergics The concomitant use anticholinergic drugs may cause a hyporesponse to stimulation testing with ChiRhoStim ® .
Discontinue anticholinergic drugs at least 5 half - lives before administering ChiRhoStim ® [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Hyperresponse of Gastrin Secretion with H 2 - Receptor Antagonists and PPIs The concomitant use of H 2 - receptor antagonists or PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion in response to stimulation testing with ChiRhoStim ® , falsely suggesting gastrinoma .
Discontinue H 2 - receptor antagonists at least 2 days before administering ChiRhoStim ® to aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma .
The time it takes for serum gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following discontinuation of PPIs is specific to the individual drug .
Consult the prescribing information of each specific PPI before administering ChiRhoStim ® to aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data ( either clinical studies or postmarketing reports ) of use of synthetic human secretin in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with synthetic human secretin .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of synthetic human secretin in human or animal milk , the effects of synthetic human secretin on the breastfed infant , or the effects of synthetic human secretin on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ChiRhoStim ® and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ChiRhoStim ® or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ChiRhoStim ® in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Among the 531 patients who have received ChiRhoStim ® in a clinical trial , 11 % were 65 years of age or older and 5 % were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety , pharmacologic response , or diagnostic effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and the younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
DESCRIPTION ChiRhoStim ® is a pure sterile , nonpyrogenic , lyophilized white cake powder acetate salt of secretin , a peptide hormone .
ChiRhoStim ® has an amino acid sequence identical to the naturally occurring hormone consisting of 27 amino acids .
Synthetic human secretin is chemically defined as follows : Molecular Weight 3039 . 44 Empirical Formula : C 130 H 220 N 44 O 39 CAS # 108153 - 74 - 8 Structural Formula : His - Ser - Asp - Gly - Thr - Phe - Thr - Ser - Glu - Leu - Ser - Arg - Leu - Arg - Glu - Gly - Ala - Arg - Leu - Gln - Arg - Leu - Leu - Gln - Gly - Leu - Val - NH 2 The standard unit of biological activity for ChiRhoStim ® is the clinical unit ( CU ) .
( 3 ) One ( 1 ) CU of secretin biological activity is equal to 0 . 2 micrograms ( mcg ) of human secretin .
ChiRhoStim ® is available in two strengths : As a 10 mL single - dose vial which contains 16 mcg of purified synthetic human secretin , 1 . 5 mg of L - cysteine hydrochloride , 20 mg of mannitol , and 9 mg of sodium chloride .
When reconstituted in 8 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection USP , each mL of solution contains 2 mcg synthetic human secretin for intravenous use .
The pH of the reconstituted solution has a range of 3 to 6 . 5 .
As a 10 mL single - dose vial which contains 40 mcg of purified synthetic human secretin , 3 . 75 mg of L - cysteine hydrochloride , 50 mg of mannitol , and 22 . 5 mg of sodium chloride per vial .
When reconstituted in 10 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection USP , each mL of solution contains 4 mcg synthetic human secretin for intravenous use .
The pH of the reconstituted solution has a range of 3 to 6 . 5 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary action of ChiRhoStim ® is to stimulate pancreatic ductal cells to secrete pancreas fluid in large volumes that contain bicarbonate .
Secretin is a hormone that is normally released from the duodenum upon exposure of the proximal intestinal lumen to gastric acid , fatty acids and amino acids .
Secretin is released from enterochromaffin cells in the intestinal mucosa .
Secretin receptors have been identified in the pancreas , stomach , liver , colon and other tissues .
When secretin binds to secretin receptors on pancreatic duct cells it opens cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator ( CFTR ) channels , leading to secretion of bicarbonate - rich - pancreatic fluid .
Secretin may also work through vagal - vagal neural pathways since stimulation of the efferent vagus nerve stimulates bicarbonate secretion and atropine blocks secretin - stimulated pancreatic secretion .
Pharmacokinetics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile for synthetic human secretin was evaluated in 12 healthy subjects following a single - dose of human secretin administered as a 0 . 4 mcg / kg intravenous bolus .
The plasma concentrations of human secretin declined to baseline concentrations within 90 to 120 minutes .
The elimination half - life of synthetic human secretin is 45 minutes .
The clearance of synthetic human secretin is 580 . 9 ± 51 . 3 mL / min and the volume of distribution is 2 . 7 liters .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Stimulation of Pancreatic Secretions , Including Bicarbonate to Aid in the Diagnosis of Exocrine Pancreas Dysfunction ChiRhoStim ® administered intravenously stimulates the exocrine pancreas to secrete pancreatic juice , which can assist in the diagnosis of exocrine pancreas dysfunction .
Normal ranges for pancreatic secretory response to intravenous secretin in patients with defined pancreatic disease have been shown to vary .
One source of variation is related to the inter - investigator differences in operative technique .
In two studies , a total of 18 patients with a documented history of chronic pancreatitis were given 0 . 2 mcg / kg synthetic human secretin ( sHS ) , 0 . 2 mcg / kg synthetic porcine secretin ( sPS ) , and 1 CU / kg ( equal to 0 . 2 mcg / kg for biologically derived secretin ( bPS ) ) in a crossover design .
The results appear in Figures 1 and 2 .
In another study , 35 healthy subjects were given sHS at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg .
The results appear in Figures 1 and 2 .
FIGURE 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] FIGURE 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] The values obtained for Figures 1 and 2 were performed by investigators skilled in performing secretin stimulation testing and are to be taken only as guidelines .
These results should not be generalized to results of secretin stimulation testing conducted in other laboratories .
However , a volume response of less than 2 mL / kg / hr , bicarbonate concentration of less than 80 mEq / L , and a bicarbonate output of less than 0 . 2 mEq / kg / hr are consistent with impaired pancreatic function .
A physician or institution planning to perform secretin stimulation testing as an aid to the diagnosis of pancreatic disease should begin by assessing enough normal subjects ( greater than 5 ) to develop proficiency in proper techniques and to generate normal response ranges for the commonly assessed parameters for pancreatic exocrine response to ChiRhoStim ® .
In three crossover studies evaluating 21 different patients with a documented history of chronic pancreatitis , sHS was compared to sPS and bPS at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg for each drug .
All of the patients treated with these drugs had peak bicarbonate concentrations of less than 80 mEq / L .
Pancreatic secretory response to intravenous synthetic human secretin in 35 healthy subjects demonstrated a mean peak bicarbonate concentration of 100 mEq / L and a mean total volume over one hour of 260 . 7 mL .
All 35 subjects had peak bicarbonate concentrations greater than or equal to 80 mEq / L .
14 . 2 Stimulation of Gastrin Secretion to Aid in the Diagnosis of Gastrinoma ChiRhoStim ® administered intravenously stimulates gastrin release in patients with gastrinoma ( Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome ) , whereas no or only small changes in serum gastrin concentrations occur in healthy subjects and in patients with duodenal ulcer disease .
Discriminant analysis was used to establish secretin stimulation testing as an aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma .
An increase from basal levels of greater than or equal to 110 pg / mL was the optimal point separating positive and negative tests .
This gastrin response is the basis for the use of secretin as a provocative test in the evaluation of patients in whom gastrinoma is a diagnostic consideration .
In a three way crossover study , 6 patients with tissue confirmed gastrinoma received synthetic human secretin ( ChiRhoStim ® ) , synthetic porcine secretin and biologically derived porcine secretin at a dose of 0 . 4 mcg / kg for each drug .
Serum gastrin levels were reported to be greater than 110 pg / mL for all secretin products tested after stimulation .
Testing of ChiRhoStim ® in 12 healthy subjects demonstrated completely negative results for gastrinoma .
14 . 3 Stimulation of Pancreatic Secretion to Facilitate Identification of the Ampulla of Vater and the Accessory Papilla During Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) In a randomized , placebo controlled crossover study in 24 patients with pancreas divisum undergoing ERCP , ChiRhoStim ® at a dose of 0 . 2 mcg / kg resulted in 16 of 24 successful cannulations of the minor duct compared to 2 of 24 for placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] REFERENCES • Gardner TB , Purich ED and Gordon SR .
Pancreatic Duct Compliance After Secretin Stimulation .
A Novel Endoscopic Ultrasound Diagnostic Tool for Chronic Pancreatitis .
Pancreas .
2012 Mar ; 41 ( 2 ) : 290 - 94 .
• Jorpes , E . and Mutt V . On the biological assay of secretin .
The reference standard .
Acta Physiol Scand .
1966 Mar ; 66 ( 3 ) : 316 - 25 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ChiRhoStim ® ( human secretin ) , for injection is supplied as a white lyophilized sterile powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution : NDC # 67066 - 005 - 01 16 mcg NDC # 67066 - 007 - 01 40 mcg Store at - 20 ° C ( freezer ) .
Protect from light .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to tell their healthcare provider all the medications they are taking , including anticholinergic drugs , H 2 - receptor antagonists or PPIs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for : ChiRhoClin , Inc .
Burtonsville , MD 20866 - 6129 005PI507 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
