Rx only DESCRIPTION Benzonatate , a non - narcotic antitussive agent , is 2 , 5 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 17 , 20 , 23 , 26 - nonaoxaoctacosan - 28 - yl p - ( butylamino ) benzoate ; with a molecular weight of 603 . 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Benzonatate Capsules , USP contain 100 mg or 200 mg of benzonatate , USP .
Benzonatate Capsules also contain : D & C Yellow No . 10 , gelatin , glycerin , methylparaben sodium and propylparaben sodium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate acts peripherally by anesthetizing the stretch receptors located in the respiratory passages , lungs , and pleura by dampening their activity and thereby reducing the cough reflex at its source .
It begins to act within 15 to 20 minutes and its effect lasts for 3 to 8 hours .
Benzonatate has no inhibitory effect on the respiratory center in recommended dosage .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds .
WARNINGS Severe hypersensitivity reactions ( including bronchospasm , laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse ) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it .
Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures .
PRECAUTIONS Benzonatate is chemically related to anesthetic agents of the para - aminobenzoic acid class ( e . g . , procaine ; tetracaine ) and has been associated with adverse CNS effects possibly related to a prior sensitivity to related agents or interaction with concomitant medication .
Information for the Patient Release of benzonatate from the capsule in the mouth can produce a temporary local anesthesia of the oral mucosa and choking could occur .
Therefore , the capsules should be swallowed without chewing .
Usage in Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
It is also not known whether benzonatate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Benzonatate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when benzonatate is administered to a nursing woman .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , and reproduction studies have not been conducted with benzonatate .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 10 has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Potential Adverse Reactions to benzonatate may include : Hypersensitivity reactions including bronchospasm , laryngospasm , cardiovascular collapse possibly related to local anesthesia from chewing or sucking the capsule .
CNS : sedation ; headache ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; visual hallucinations .
GI : constipation , nausea , GI upset .
Dermatologic : pruritus ; skin eruptions .
Other : nasal congestion ; sensation of burning in the eyes ; vague “ chilly ” sensation ; numbness of the chest ; hypersensitivity .
Rare instances of deliberate or accidental overdose have resulted in death .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose may result in death .
The drug is chemically related to tetracaine and other topical anesthetics and shares various aspects of their pharmacology and toxicology .
Drugs of this type are generally well absorbed after ingestion .
Signs and Symptoms : If capsules are chewed or dissolved in the mouth , oropharyngeal anesthesia will develop rapidly .
CNS stimulation may cause restlessness and tremors , which may proceed to clonic convulsions followed by profound CNS depression .
Treatment : Evacuate gastric contents and administer copious amounts of activated charcoal slurry .
Even in the conscious patient , cough and gag refluxes may be so depressed as to necessitate special attention to protection against aspiration of gastric contents and orally administered materials .
Convulsions should be treated with a short - acting barbiturates given intravenously and carefully titrated for the smallest effective dosage .
Intensive support of respiration and cardiovascular - renal function is an essential feature of the treatment of severe intoxication from overdosage .
Do not use CNS stimulants .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children over 10 : Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsules t . i . d . as required .
If necessary , up to 600 mg daily may be given .
HOW SUPPLIED Benzonatate Capsules , USP are available as : Soft gelatin capsules , 100 mg ( oval , yellow ) Imprint : A1 . ; bottle of 20 ( NDC 42254 - 078 - 20 ) and bottle of 30 ( 42254 - 078 - 30 Store at 25 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by : Swiss Caps AG Hausenstrasse 35 CH - 9533 , Kirchberg , Switzerland Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Glasgow , KY 42141 Rev . 09 - 2008 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
