Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide 10 . 2 % Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 3 . 7 % Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • - Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • - Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
• Apply to all skin exposed to the sun Other information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sunlight .
• You may report a serious adverse reaction to : 1 Technology Dr . , B123 , Irvine , CA 92618 Inactive ingredients Cyclopentasiloxane , Cyclotetrasiloxane , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Methyl Methacrylate / Glycol Dimethacrylate Crosspolymer , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Melanin , Tribehenin , Calcium Behenate , Sorbitan Isostearate , Dimethiconol , Alumina , Laureth - 23 , Methicone , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , PPG - 2 Myristyl Ether Propionate , Propylparaben , Methylparaben , Myristoyl Pentapeptide - 8 , Iron Oxide ( CI 77492 ) .
DIST BY ZO Skin Health , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92618 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton ZO ® SKIN HEALTH BY ZEIN OBAGI , MD LEVEL III : AGGRESSIVE ANTI - AGING PROGRAM with Advanced Radical Night Repair NDC 42851 - 154 - 01 beverly hills [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
