Analgesic Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Menthol 4 % External Analgesic Methyl Salicylate 1 % External Analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : ● arthritis ● strains ● bruises ● sprains ● simple backache Warnings For external use only Do not use ● on wounds ● irritated or damaged skin ● sensitive skin ● with a heating pad ● if pregnant ● with , or as the same time as , other external analgesic products ● if allergic to aspirin or salicylates ● if allergic to any ingredients of this product .
When using this product ● avoid contact with the eyes ● do not bandage tightly ● do not apply to wounds or damaged skin ● do not use more than 3 plasters a day ● do not use 1 hour before or after bathing Stop use and ask a doctor if ● condition worsens ● symptoms persist for more than 7 days ● symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ● excessive irritation of the skin develops ● rashes , itching or redness are present ● side effects occur .
If pregnant , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use otherwise than as directed .
Directions ● Adults and children 12 years of age and older : clean and dry affected area .
Remove plaster from the protective layer , apply to the affected area , rub the area with your hand to secure the patch .
● Plaster will remain effective for 8 hours .
● Avoid using the same patch on the same area for more than 2 days .
● Do not apply to area with excessive hair .
Adhesive plaster may hurt skin upon removal .
● Wet patch with warm water before removing from skin ● Children under 12 years of age : Do not use or consult a doctor .
Other Information ● Store unused patch in the pouch ● Store at room temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) Chinese Clematidis Root & Rhizome , Yellow wax , Momordica cochinchinensis seeds , Castor Seeds , Myrrh , Frankincense , Sesame Oil , Resin , FD & C Blue No . 2 , FD & C Yellow No . 4 , Zinc Oxide Questions or Comments Call : 1 - 888 - 811 - 1133 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
