DESCRIPTION Purified Cortrophin Gel is a porcine derived purified corticotropin ( ACTH ) in a sterile solution of gelatin .
It is made up of a complex mixture of ACTH , ACTH related peptides and other porcine pituitary derived peptides .
The drug product is a sterile preparation containing 80 USP units per mL and it contains 0 . 5 % phenol ( as preservative ) , 15 . 0 % gelatin ( for prolonged activity ) , water for injection , and the pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide .
Purified Cortrophin Gel contains the porcine derived ACTH ( 1 - 39 ) with the following amino acid sequence : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Purified Cortrophin Gel is the anterior pituitary hormone which stimulates the functioning adrenal cortex to produce and secrete adrenocortical hormones .
Following administration of a single intramuscular injection of 80 Units of Cortrophin Gel to healthy volunteers ( n = 20 ) in an open label pharmacodynamic study , the median time ( range ) to reach peak cortisol concentration was 8 ( 3 - 12 ) hours .
The baseline corrected geometric mean maximum ( CV % ) cortisol levels were 34 . 52 µg / dL ( 28 . 2 % ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Purified Cortrophin Gel is indicated in the following disorders : 1 .
Rheumatic disorders : • As adjunctive therapy for short - term administration ( to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation ) in : Psoriatic arthritis .
Rheumatoid arthritis , including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( selected cases may require low - dose maintenance therapy ) .
Ankylosing spondylitis .
Acute gouty arthritis .
2 .
Collagen diseases : • During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of : Systemic lupus erythematosus .
Systemic dermatomyositis ( polymyositis ) .
3 .
Dermatologic diseases : • Severe erythema multiforme ( Stevens - Johnson syndrome ) .
Severe psoriasis .
4 .
Allergic states : • Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness .
5 .
Ophthalmic diseases : • Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as : Allergic conjunctivitis .
Keratitis .
Iritis and iridocyclitis .
Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis .
Optic neuritis .
Chorioretinitis .
Anterior segment inflammation .
6 .
Respiratory diseases : • Symptomatic sarcoidosis .
7 .
Edematous states : • To induce a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus .
8 .
Nervous system : • Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Purified Cortrophin Gel is contraindicated for intravenous administration .
Purified Cortrophin Gel is contraindicated in patients with scleroderma , osteoporosis , systemic fungal infections , ocular herpes simplex , recent surgery , history of or the presence of a peptic ulcer , congestive heart failure , hypertension , or sensitivity to proteins derived from porcine sources .
Purified Cortrophin Gel is contraindicated in patients with primary adrenocortical insufficiency or adrenocortical hyperfunction .
WARNINGS Chronic administration of corticotropin may lead to adverse effects which are not reversible .
This product should not be administered for treatment until adrenal responsiveness has been verified with the route of administration which will be utilized during treatment , intramuscularly or subcutaneously .
A rise in urinary and plasma corticosteroid values provides direct evidence of a stimulatory effect .
Although the action of corticotropin is similar to that of exogenous adrenocortical steroids the quantity of adrenocorticoid may be variable .
In patients who receive prolonged corticotropin therapy the additional use of rapidly acting corticosteroids before , during and after an unusual stressful situation is indicated .
Masking Symptoms of Other Diseases Corticotropin may only suppress symptoms and signs of chronic disease without altering the natural course of the disease .
Immunogenicity Potential Purified Cortrophin Gel is immunogenic .
Limited available data suggest that a patient may develop antibodies to Purified Cortrophin Gel after chronic administration and loss of endogenous ACTH and Purified Cortrophin Gel activity .
Prolonged administration of Purified Cortrophin Gel may increase the risk of hypersensitivity reactions .
Sensitivity to porcine protein should be considered before starting therapy and during the course of treatment should symptoms arise .
Ophthalmic Effects Prolonged use of corticotropin may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts and glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves .
Infections Corticotropin may mask some signs of infection , and new infections including those of the eye due to fungi or viruses may appear during its use .
There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticotropin is used .
Elevated Blood Pressure , Salt and Water Retention , and Hypokalemia Corticotropin can cause elevation of blood pressure , salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary .
Corticotropin increases calcium excretion .
Vaccination While on corticotropin therapy , patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox .
Other immunization procedures should be undertaken with caution in patients who are receiving corticotropin , especially when high doses are administered because of the possible hazards of neurological complications and lack of antibody response .
PRECAUTIONS General Patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity who receive corticotropin should be closely observed as reactivation of the disease may occur .
During prolonged corticotropin therapy , these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis .
Skin testing should be performed prior to treatment of all patients with suspected sensitivity to porcine protein .
Immediately following intramuscular or subcutaneous administration of corticotropin all patients should be observed carefully for sensitivity reactions .
Relative adrenocortical insufficiency induced by prolonged corticotropin therapy may be minimized by gradual reduction of corticotropin dosage .
This type of insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy ; therefore , in any situation of stress during that period , hormone therapy should be reinstituted .
There is an enhanced effect of corticotropin in patients with hypothyroidism and in those with cirrhosis .
The lowest possible dosage of corticotropin should be used to control the condition under treatment , and when reduction in dosage is possible the reduction should be gradual .
Corticotropin should be administered for treatment only when the disease is intractable to more conventional therapy .
Corticotropin should be adjunctive and not the sole therapy in the treatment of a disease .
Since maximal corticotropin stimulation of the adrenals may be limited during the first few days of treatment , other drugs should be administered when an immediate therapeutic effect is desirable .
When infection is present appropriate anti - infective therapy should be administered during corticotropin and following discontinuation of corticotropin therapy .
Treatment of acute gouty arthritis should be limited to a few days .
Since rebound attacks may occur when corticotropin is discontinued , conventional concomitant therapy should be administered during corticotropin treatment , and for several days after it is stopped .
Psychic derangements may appear when corticotropin is used , ranging from euphoria , insomnia , mood swings , personality changes , and depression , to frank psychotic manifestations .
Also , existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticotropin .
Corticotropin should be used with caution in patients with diabetes , abscess , pyogenic infections , diverticulitis , renal insufficiency , and myasthenia gravis .
Growth and development of infants and children on prolonged corticotropin therapy should be carefully observed .
Although controlled clinical trials have shown ACTH to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis , they do not show that it affects the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease .
Since complications of treatment with ACTH are dependent on the size of the dose and the duration of treatment , a risk / benefit decision must be made in each individual case as to dose and duration of treatment .
Drug Interactions Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticotropin in hypoprothrombinemia .
Pregnancy Since fetal abnormalities have been observed in experimental animals , use of this drug in pregnancy , nursing mothers , or women of childbearing potential requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticotropin during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Sodium retention .
Hypokalemic alkalosis .
Fluid retention .
Calcium loss .
Potassium loss .
Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness .
Loss of muscle mass .
Steroid myopathy .
Osteoporosis .
Vertebral compression fractures .
Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads .
Pathologic fracture of long bones .
Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage .
Abdominal distention .
Ulcerative esophagitis .
Pancreatitis .
Dermatologic Impaired wound healing .
Increased sweating .
Thin fragile skin .
Suppression of skin test reactions .
Petechiae and ecchymoses .
Acne .
Hyperpigmentation .
Facial erythema .
Cardiovascular Hypertension .
Congestive heart failure .
Necrotizing angiitis .
Neurological Convulsions .
Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema ( pseudo - tumor cerebri ) , usually after treatment .
Headache .
Vertigo .
Endocrine Menstrual irregularities .
Development of Cushingoid state .
Suppression of growth in children .
Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary insufficiency , particularly in times of stress , as in trauma , surgery or illness .
Decreased carbohydrate tolerance .
Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus .
Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics .
Hirsutism .
Ophthalmic Posterior subcapsular cataracts .
Increased intraocular pressure .
Glaucoma with possible damage to optic nerve .
Exophthalmos .
Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism .
Allergic reactions Allergic reactions manifesting as dizziness , nausea and vomiting , shock , skin reactions , especially in patients with allergic responses to proteins .
Miscellaneous Abscess .
Development of antibodies and loss of stimulatory effect .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Standard tests for verification of adrenal responsiveness to corticotropin may utilize as much as 80 units as a single injection or one or more injections of a lesser dosage .
Verification tests should be performed prior to treatment with corticotropins .
The test should utilize the route ( s ) of administration proposed for treatment .
Following verification dosage should be individualized according to the disease under treatment and the general medical condition of each patient .
Frequency and dose of the drug should be determined by considering severity of the disease , plasma and urine corticosteroid levels and the initial response of the patient .
Only gradual change in dosage schedules should be attempted , after full drug effects have become apparent .
In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily intramuscular doses of 80 - 120 units for 2 - 3 weeks .
The chronic administration of more than 40 units daily may be associated with uncontrollable adverse effects .
When reduction in dosage is indicated this should be accomplished gradually by either reducing the amount of each injection , or administering injections at longer intervals , or by a combination of both of the above .
During reduction of dosage , careful consideration should be given to the disease being treated , the general medical condition of the patient and the duration over which corticotropin was administered .
This product may be administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Purified Cortrophin Gel is supplied sterile in 5 mL multiple - dose vials ( NDC 62559 - 860 - 15 ) containing 80 USP units / mL .
Store Purified Cortrophin Gel refrigerated at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10233 Rev 01 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use Purified Cortrophin ® Gel ( Repository Corticotropin Injection USP ) for intramuscular or subcutaneous use This Instructions for Use contains information on how to inject Purified Cortrophin Gel .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to prepare and inject Purified Cortrophin Gel the right way before you inject it for the first time .
Do not try to inject yourself until you have been shown the right way to give your injections by your healthcare provider .
Important information about how to inject Purified Cortrophin Gel Purified Cortrophin Gel is given as an injection into the muscle or under the skin as directed by your healthcare provider .
Do not inject it into a vein or take by mouth .
• • Inject Purified Cortrophin Gel exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Your healthcare provider will tell you where to give the injection , how much to give , how often and when to give it .
• • Do not use Purified Cortrophin Gel until your healthcare provider has taught you how to give the injection .
Before starting , collect all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and injecting Purified Cortrophin Gel .
You will need the following supplies : • • Vial of Purified Cortrophin Gel • • Syringe • • Needle for withdrawal ( 20 G or as prescribed by your healthcare provider ) • • Needle for injection ( 23 G or as prescribed by your healthcare provider ) • • Several alcohol pads • • Cotton balls or gauze pad • • Bandage ( if needed ) • • Sharps container for throwing away used syringes and needles .
Preparing Purified Cortrophin Gel • • Wash your hands thoroughly and dry with a clean towel .
• • Remove the vial from the refrigerator .
Check the expiration date on the vial ; do not use if the expiration date has passed .
• • Purified Cortrophin Gel will be a solid gel when refrigerated ; it needs to be warmed to a liquid gel before injecting .
Warm the contents of the vial by rolling between your hands for a few minutes .
Do not microwave or heat on the stove .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Remove ( flip off ) the plastic cap from the top of the Purified Cortrophin Gel vial and throw away this plastic cap in the trash .
Do not put the plastic cap back on the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Wipe the top of the vial rubber stopper with a new sterile alcohol wipe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Use a new sterile 20 G needle ( or needle prescribed for withdrawal ) and syringe to draw up the amount of Purified Cortrophin Gel your healthcare provider has told you to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Injecting Purified Cortrophin Gel • • Prepare the skin where you are going to give the injection by wiping it with a new sterile alcohol wipe .
Allow to air dry .
• • Replace the 20 G needle ( or needle prescribed for withdrawal ) used for drawing the Purified Cortrophin Gel from the vial with the 23 G needle ( or needle prescribed for injection ) .
Do not use the 20 G needle for injecting .
• • Give the injection the way your healthcare provider has instructed you .
• • Return the vial to the refrigerator as soon as possible .
Disposing of your used needles and syringe • • Put your used needles and syringe in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away your used needles and syringe in your household trash .
• • If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • omade of a heavy - duty plastic , • ocan be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • oupright and stable during use , • oleak - resistant , and • oproperly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• • When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
Storing Purified Cortrophin Gel • • Store vials of Purified Cortrophin Gel in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• • Throw away any vials after the expiration date printed on the label .
Keep Purified Cortrophin Gel and all medication out of the reach of children .
Distributed by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , Baudette , MN 56623 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : Jan 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62559 - 860 - 15 purified CORTROPHIN ® GEL ( repository corticotropin injection USP ) 400 USP units / 5 mL ( 80 USP units / mL ) For intramuscular or subcutaneous use .
Rx only 5 mL , Multiple - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
