ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Dimethicone 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Ammonium Laureth Sulfate , Ammonium Lauryl Sulfate , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Zinc Pyrithione , Sodium Citrate , Butylene Glycol , Panthenol , Cocamide MEA , Carbomer , Sodium Chloride , Polyquaternium - 10 , Citric Acid , Niacinamide , Zinc Chloride , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Methylparaben , Laureth - 4 , Biotin , Disodium EDTA , Laureth - 23 , Sodium Benzoate , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Fragrance , Methylchloroisothiazolinone , Methylisothiazolinone , Phenoxyethanol PURPOSE Purpose : Skin Protectant WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
It is not used in the following cases .
Skin and scalp there is a skin wound or mucous membrane , such as eczema , damaged 2 .
People such as the following , consult your doctor and pharmacist before using this medicine People who have ( such as dermatitis rash , redness , itching , with lacquer , etc . ) allergy symptoms caused by cosmetics and medicine came out 3 .
Be discontinued immediately the use of this drug in the following cases , consult your doctor or pharmacist , at the time of consultation , as far as possible , be in possession of this package insert 1 ) If rash , erythema , itching , swelling , and the like are displayed 2 ) If severe pain and itching as displayed 4 .
Notes when using this drug other 1 ) To be used only for the outside .
The ( non - oral ) 2 ) Be careful so that it does not get in your eyes , flush with clean water when it gets if , it is recommended that you consult with an ophthalmologist if symptoms are severe .
3 ) Be careful when you are repeating the same site , because it may scalp becomes rough degreasing etc . ( degreasing ) .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of babies and children INDICATIONS & USAGE Direction & Dosage : After throughly wetting the hair and scalp with lukewarm water , evenly massage the scalp with 3 - 5 ml of the product .
Leave it on for 3 minutes and then wash off .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Direction & Dosage : After throughly wetting the hair and scalp with lukewarm water , evenly massage the scalp with 3 - 5 ml of the product .
Leave it on for 3 minutes and then wash off .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
