1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benznidazole Tablets are indicated in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age for the treatment of Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) caused by Trypanosoma cruzi .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on the number of treated patients who became Immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) antibody negative against the recombinant antigens of T . cruzi [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials .
Benznidazole Tablets , a nitroimidazole antimicrobial , is indicated in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age for the treatment of Chagas disease ( American trypanosomiasis ) , caused by Trypanosoma cruzi ( 1 ) .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on the number of treated patients who became Immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) antibody negative against the recombinant antigens of T . cruzi .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials ( 1 , 14 ) .
Contraindications , Patients with Cockayne Syndrome ( 4 . 3 , 6 . 2 ) 9 / 2021 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age : The total daily dose is 5 mg / kg to 8 mg / kg orally administered in two divided doses separated by approximately 12 hours for a duration of 60 days ( 2 . 2 ) .
• See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) .
2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Benznidazole Tablets ( 12 . 5 mg and 100 mg ) are for oral use and may be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Benznidazole Tablets are dosed by body weight ( kg ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg are functionally scored tablets which can be split into one - half ( 50 mg ) or one - quarter ( 25 mg ) at the scored lines to provide doses less than 100 mg [ see Instructions for Use ] .
• Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg and 100 mg can be made into slurry as an alternative method of administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients ( 2 to 12 Years of Age ) The total daily dose for pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age is 5 mg / kg to 8 mg / kg orally administered in two divided doses separated by approximately 12 hours , for a duration of 60 days ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosage of Benznidazole Tablets in Pediatric Patients ( 2 to 12 Years of Age ) Body Weight Range ( kg ) Dose ( mg ) Number of Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg Number of Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg Duration and Frequency of Therapy Less than 15 kg 50 mg 4 tablets ½ tablet Administered twice daily approximately 12 hours apart for 60 days .
15 kg to less than 20 kg 62 . 5 mg 5 tablets 20 kg to less than 30 kg 75 mg 6 tablets ¾ tablet 30 kg to less than 40 kg 100 mg 1 tablet 40 kg to less than 60 kg 150 mg 1 ½ tablets Greater than or equal to 60 kg 200 mg 2 tablets 2 . 3 Assessment Prior to Initiating Benznidazole Tablets Obtain a pregnancy test in females of reproductive potential prior to therapy with Benznidazole Tablets [ see Use is Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Preparation of Slurry as an Alternative Method of Administration A . Preparation of Slurry Using Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg for the Pediatric Population with Body Weight Less Than 30 kg Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg may be made into slurry in a specified volume of water for the pediatric population with body weight less than 30 kg ( see Table 2 ) .
The 12 . 5 mg tablet slurry is prepared by the following method : Table 2 : Preparation and Administration of Slurry Using Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg for the Pediatric Population with Body Weight of Less than 30 kg • Place the prescribed dose of Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg into a cup .
• Add the specified volume of water per number of 12 . 5 mg tablets as shown below .
Body Weight Range ( kg ) Dose ( mg ) Number of Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg Quantity of Water for Preparing the Slurry Less than 15 kg 50 mg 4 tablets 40 mL 15 kg to less than 20 kg 62 . 5 mg 5 tablets 50 mL 20 kg to less than 30 kg 75 mg 6 tablets 60 mL • Allow the tablets to disintegrate in the cup over a period of approximately 1 - 2 minutes .
• Shake the contents of the cup gently to mix .
• Drink the contents of the cup ( slurry of tablets with water ) immediately .
• Rinse the cup with an additional 10 mL of water and drink the whole amount .
B . Preparation of Slurry Using Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg for the Pediatric Population with Body Weight ( 30 kg or greater ) Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg may be made into a slurry in a specified volume of water for the pediatric population with body weight of 30 kg or greater ( see Table 3 ) .
The 100 mg tablet slurry is prepared as follows : Table 3 : Preparation and Administration of Slurry Using Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg for the Pediatric Population with Body Weight 30 kg or greater • Place the prescribed dose of Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg tablets into a cup .
• Add the specified volume of water per number of 100 mg tablets as shown below .
Body Weight Range ( kg ) Dose ( mg ) Number of Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg Quantity of Water for Preparing the Slurry 30 kg to less than 40 kg 100 mg 1 tablet 80 mL 40 kg to less than 60 kg 150 mg 1 ½ tablets 120 mL Greater than or equal to 60 kg 200 mg 2 tablets 160 mL • Allow the tablet ( s ) to disintegrate in the cup over a period of approximately 1 - 2 minutes .
• Shake the contents of the cup gently to mix .
• Drink the contents of the cup ( slurry of tablet ( s ) with water ) immediately .
• Rinse the cup by adding 80 mL of water and drink the whole amount .
Repeat this rinse with 80 mL of water and drink again .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Benznidazole Tablets are available as 100 mg and 12 . 5 mg tablets .
The 100 mg white tablets are round and functionally scored twice as a cross on both sides , debossed with “ E ” on one side of each quarter portion .
The 12 . 5 mg white tablets are round and unscored , debossed with “ E ” on one side .
• Tablets : 100 mg ( functionally scored ) ( 3 ) .
• Tablets : 12 . 5 mg ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of hypersensitivity reaction to benznidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives ( 4 . 1 ) .
• Disulfiram usage within the last two weeks ( 4 . 2 ) .
• Patients with Cockayne Syndrome ( 4 . 3 , 6 . 2 ) .
4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Benznidazole Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to benznidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives .
Reactions have included severe skin and soft tissue reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 Disulfiram Benznidazole Tablets are contraindicated in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks .
Psychotic reactions may occur in patients who are using benznidazole and disulfiram concurrently [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 3 Patients with Cockayne Syndrome Benznidazole Tablets are contraindicated in patients with Cockayne syndrome .
Severe irreversible hepatotoxicity / acute liver failure with fatal outcomes have been reported after initiation of metronidazole , another nitroimidazole drug , structurally related to benznidazole in patients with Cockayne syndrome [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Potential Risk for Genotoxicity and Carcinogenicity ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) .
• Hypersensitivity skin reactions have been reported with benznidazole .
In case of skin reactions , presenting with additional symptoms of systemic involvement such as lymphadenopathy , fever and / or purpura , discontinuation of treatment is recommended ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Treatment with Benznidazole Tablets can potentially cause paresthesia or symptoms of peripheral neuropathy .
In cases where neurological symptoms occur , immediate discontinuation of treatment is recommended ( 5 . 4 ) .
• There have been hematological manifestations of bone marrow depression , such as neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , and leukopenia ( 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Potential for Genotoxicity and Carcinogenicity Genotoxicity Genotoxicity of benznidazole has been demonstrated in humans , in vitro in several bacterial species and mammalian cell systems , and in vivo in rodents [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
A study evaluating the cytogenetic effect of benznidazole in pediatric patients ranging from 11 months to 11 years of age ( the safety and effectiveness of Benznidazole Tablets in patients less than 2 years old has not been established ) with Chagas disease demonstrated a two - fold increase in chromosomal aberrations .
In pediatric patients with Chagas disease who were treated with benznidazole , the median incidence of micronucleated interphase lymphocytes in 20 patients increased 2 fold compared to pre - dose values .
In the same study , the mean incidence of chromosomal aberrations in 10 patients also increased 2 fold compared to pre - dose values .
Carcinogenicity Carcinogenicity has been observed in mice and rats treated chronically with nitroimidazole agents which are structurally similar to benznidazole .
Similar data have not been reported for benznidazole [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
It is not known whether benznidazole is associated with carcinogenicity in humans .
5 . 2 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies , Benznidazole Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , benznidazole administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis was associated with fetal malformations at doses approximately 1 - 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in rats ( anasarca , anophthalmia , and / or microphthalmia ) and doses approximately 0 . 3 - 1 times the MRHD in rabbits ( ventricular septal defect ) .
In rats , reduced maternal weights and smaller litter sizes occurred at a dose approximately 3 times the MRHD .
In rabbits , reduced maternal weight gain , and abortions in 2 / 20 females occurred at a dose approximately equal to the MHRD [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Benznidazole Tablets and for 5 days after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Skin Reactions Serious skin and subcutaneous disorders including acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , erythema multiforme , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) have been reported with benznidazole .
Discontinue treatment at the first evidence of these serious cutaneous reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Extensive skin reactions , such as rash ( maculopapular , pruritic macules , eczema , pustules , erythematous , generalized , and allergic dermatitis , exfoliative dermatitis ) have also been reported .
Most cases occurred after approximately 10 days of treatment with benznidazole .
Most rashes resolved with treatment discontinuation .
In case of skin reactions presenting with additional symptoms or signs of systemic involvement such as lymphadenopathy , fever and / or purpura , discontinuation of treatment is recommended .
5 . 4 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Treatment with Benznidazole Tablets can cause paresthesia or symptoms of peripheral neuropathy that may take several months to resolve .
Headache and dizziness have been reported .
In cases where neurological symptoms occur , immediate discontinuation of treatment is recommended .
In most cases , symptoms occur late in the course of treatment .
5 . 5 Hematological Manifestations of Bone Marrow Depression There have been reports of hematological manifestations of bone marrow depression , such as neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia and leukopenia , which resolved after treatment discontinuation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Patients with hematological manifestations of bone marrow depression must take Benznidazole Tablets only under strict medical supervision .
Monitor complete blood count .
Total and differential leukocyte counts are recommended before , during and after therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious and otherwise important adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of labeling : • Potential for Genotoxicity , Carcinogenicity , and Mutagenicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Hematological Manifestations of Bone Marrow Depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions observed were abdominal pain , rash , decreased weight , headache , nausea , vomiting , neutropenia , urticaria , pruritus , eosinophilia , decreased appetite ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Exeltis USA , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Benznidazole was evaluated in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials ( Trial 1 1 and Trial 2 2 ) and one uncontrolled trial ( Trial 3 3 ) .
Trial 1 was conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with chronic indeterminate Chagas disease in Argentina .
The chronic indeterminate form includes patients with serologic evidence of T . cruzi infection without symptoms of cardiac or gastrointestinal disease .
A total of 106 patients were randomized to receive either benznidazole ( 5 mg / kg / day twice daily for 60 days ; N = 55 ) or placebo ( N = 51 ) and followed for 4 years .
Trial 2 was conducted in pediatric patients 7 to 12 years of age with chronic indeterminate Chagas disease in Brazil .
A total of 129 patients were randomized to receive either benznidazole ( 7 . 5 mg / kg / day twice daily for 60 days ; N = 64 ) or placebo ( N = 65 ) and followed for 3 years .
Trial 3 was an uncontrolled study in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age with chronic indeterminate Chagas disease .
A total of 37 pediatric patients with Chagas disease were enrolled in this safety and pharmacokinetics study .
Patients were treated with benznidazole 5 to 8 mg / kg / day twice daily for 60 days .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation In Trial 1 , benznidazole was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 5 / 55 ( 9 % ) patients .
Some patients had more than one adverse reaction resulting in treatment discontinuation .
The adverse reactions included abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , rash , decreased appetite , headache , and transaminases increased .
Common Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients The most frequently reported adverse reactions in pediatric patients treated with benznidazole in Trial 1 were abdominal pain ( 25 % ) , rash ( 16 % ) , decreased weight ( 13 % ) , and headache ( 7 % ) .
Table 4 lists adverse reactions occurring at a rate of 1 % or greater in pediatric patients with Chagas disease aged 6 to 12 years of age in Trial 1 .
Table 4 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in Pediatric Patients with Chagas Disease aged 6 to 12 Years in Trial 1 Body System Adverse Reaction Benznidazole ( N = 55 ) N ( % ) Placebo ( N = 51 ) N ( % ) Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain 14 ( 25 ) 4 ( 8 ) Weight decreased 7 ( 13 ) 1 ( 2 ) Nausea 3 ( 5 ) 1 ( 2 ) Vomiting 3 ( 5 ) 0 Diarrhea 2 ( 4 ) 0 Decreased appetite 3 ( 5 ) 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue Rash 9 ( 16 ) 0 Metabolism / Laboratory Transaminases increased 3 ( 5 ) 0 Nervous system Disorders Dizziness 2 ( 4 ) 2 ( 4 ) Peripheral neuropathy 1 ( 2 ) 0 Tremor 1 ( 2 ) 0 In Trial 2 , skin lesions were reported in 7 of 64 ( 11 % ) pediatric patients treated with benznidazole and in 2 of 65 patients receiving placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in fewer than 5 % of benznidazole - treated patients included nausea , anorexia , headache , abdominal pain and arthralgia .
In a subset of 19 pediatric patients 2 to 6 years of age treated with benznidazole in Trial 3 , 6 patients ( 32 % ) had the following adverse reactions : rash , leukopenia , urticaria , eosinophilia , decreased appetite , and neutropenia .
These adverse reactions were similar to those observed in the overall population of 37 patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the use of other formulations of benznidazole outside of the United States , or other nitroimidazole agents .
Because these reactions are reported from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Other Formulations of Benznidazole : Table 5 : Adverse Reactions Reported in the Published LiteratureBody System Adverse Reactions Dermatological • Maculo - papular cutaneous eruptions • Erythematous plaques • Rash , generalized • Rash , erythematous • Pruritic rash • Blistering eruptions • Peeling skin • Exfoliative dermatitis • Toxic epidermal necrolysis • AGEP • Erythema multiforme • Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) Neurological ( central and peripheral nervous system ) • Paresthesia • Hypoesthesia • Headaches • Insomnia • Convulsions • Inability to concentrate • Amnesia , temporary • Disorientation , temporary Gastrointestinal • Epigastric pain • Dry mouth • Ageusia Hepatobiliary disorders • Hepatitis • Toxic hepatitis Skeletal Muscle • Myalgia • Musculoskeletal pain • Migratory arthritis General / Constitutional Symptoms • Fever • Asthenia • Fatigue Lymphatic • Generalized edema • Eyelid edema • Edema in the extremities • Lymphadenopathy Bone Marrow • Thrombocytopenia • Granulocytopenia • Agranulocytosis Metabolism / Laboratory • Elevation of alkaline phosphatase • Elevation of bilirubin Metronidazole , Another Nitroimidazole Agent , Structurally Related to Benznidazole Cases of severe irreversible hepatotoxicity / acute liver failure , including cases with fatal outcomes with very rapid onset after initiation of systemic use of metronidazole , another nitroimidazole agent structurally related to benznidazole , have been reported in patients with Cockayne syndrome ( latency from drug start to signs of liver failure as short as 2 days ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Disulfiram Psychotic reactions have been reported in patients who are concurrently taking disulfiram and nitroimidazole agents ( structurally related to benznidazole , but not with benznidazole ) .
Benznidazole Tablets should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Alcohol and Products Containing Propylene Glycol In vitro studies showed that benznidazole , at concentrations from 0 . 03 μM to 100 μM , does not inhibit the enzymatic activity of human alcohol dehydrogenase ( ALDH ) .
Benznidazole Tablets are not expected to cause alcohol aversion or a disulfiram - like reaction as a result of ethanol ingestion .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies , Benznidazole Tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Published postmarketing reports on benznidazole use during pregnancy are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse pregnancy - related outcomes .
There are risks to the fetus associated with Chagas Disease ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In embryo - fetal development studies , benznidazole administered orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis was associated with fetal malformations at doses approximately 1 - 3 times the MRHD in rats ( anasarca , anophthalmia , and / or microphthalmia ) and doses approximately 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 times the MRHD in rabbits ( ventricular septal defect ) ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Published data from case - control and observational studies on chronic Chagas disease during pregnancy are inconsistent in their findings .
Some studies showed an increased risk of pregnancy loss , prematurity and neonatal mortality in pregnant women who have chronic Chagas disease while other studies did not demonstrate these findings .
Chronic Chagas disease is usually not life - threatening .
Since pregnancy findings are inconsistent , treatment of chronic Chagas disease during pregnancy is not recommended due to risk of embryo - fetal toxicity from Benznidazole Tablets .
Acute symptomatic Chagas disease is rare in pregnant women ; however , symptoms may be serious or life - threatening .
There have been reports of pregnant women with life - threatening symptoms associated with acute Chagas disease who were treated with benznidazole .
If a pregnant woman presents with acute symptomatic Chagas disease , the risks versus benefits of treatment with Benznidazole Tablets to the mother and the fetus should be evaluated on a case - by - case basis .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal toxicity study in pregnant rats , benznidazole was administered in oral doses of 15 , 50 , and 150 mg / kg / day during organogenesis ( days 6 - 17 of gestation ) , and the high dose was associated with maternal weight loss , reduced fetal weights , and smaller litter sizes .
Benznidazole was also associated with a low incidence of fetal malformations including anasarca in one fetus at a dose of 50 mg / kg / day and anasarca and eye abnormalities ( anophthalmia and microphthalmia ) in 5 fetuses in 5 litters at a high dose of 150 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to 1 and 3 times , respectively , the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparisons ) .
No maternal toxicity was observed at a benznidazole dose of 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately equal to the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) , and no fetal toxicity was observed at a dose of 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to 0 . 3 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison ) .
In an embryo - fetal study in pregnant rabbits benznidazole administered by oral ( gavage ) in doses of 2 . 5 , 7 . 5 , and 25 mg / kg / day during organogenesis ( days 6 to 19 of gestation ) was associated with maternal toxicity at the high dose , including reduced weight gain and food consumption and abortions in 2 / 20 females .
Benznidazole was also associated with a low incidence of fetal abnormalities including ventricular septal defect in 2 fetuses in 2 litters at a dose of 7 . 5 mg / kg / day and in 1 fetus at a dose of 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to 0 . 3 and 1 times respectively the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison ) .
The benznidazole doses that were not associated with maternal and fetal toxicity in this study were 7 . 5 and 2 . 5 mg / kg / day respectively , which are respectively equivalent to approximately 0 . 3 and 0 . 1 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison .
In a pre - postnatal study in rats , first generation ( F 1 ) pups born to dams administered 15 , 50 , and 75 mg / kg / day benznidazole from day 6 of gestation to day 20 of lactation demonstrated normal pre - weaning behavior , physical and functional development , neurological findings , and reproductive parameters .
However , cesarean section data for the pregnant first generation ( F 1 ) females in the high - dose group included significantly higher pre - implantation loss and significantly lower mean values for corpora lutea counts , number of implantations , and number of live embryos .
Also , small testes and / or epididymides were observed in 1 / 20 and 2 / 20 first generation males in the mid - and high - dose groups respectively , and two of the affected animals failed to mate or induce pregnancy .
However , the mean values for mating performance , fertility index , testes weight , testes and epididymides sperm counts , and epididymal sperm motility and progression were not altered in any of the F 1 males in benznidazole treatment groups .
The number of live second generation ( F 2 ) fetuses born to F 1 dams was reduced in the high - dose group .
The benznidazole dose that was not associated with adverse effects was considered to be 50 mg / kg / day which is approximately equal to the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature based on breast milk sampling reports that benznidazole is present in human milk at infant doses of 5 . 5 to 17 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 3 - 2 . 79 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no information on the effects of benznidazole on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , and transmission of Chagas disease , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Benznidazole Tablets .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential .
Contraception Females Benznidazole Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Benznidazole Tablets and for 5 days after the final dose .
Infertility Males Based on findings in rats , Benznidazole Tablets may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential .
In rats , the effects on fertility were reversible 22 weeks after dosing ; however , the effects in humans are unknown [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Benznidazole Tablets have been established in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age for the treatment of Chagas disease .
Use in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age was established in two adequate and well - controlled trials in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years old with additional safety and pharmacokinetic data from pediatric patients 2 to 6 years of age .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years and above the age of 12 years have not been established .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Use of Benznidazole Tablets has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Use of Benznidazole Tablets has not been evaluated in patients with renal impairment .
11 DESCRIPTION Benznidazole Tablets contain benznidazole , a nitroimidazole antimicrobial .
The chemical name of benznidazole is N - benzyl - 2 - ( 2 - nitro - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) acetamide .
The empirical formula is C 12 H 12 N 4 O 3 and the molecular weight is 260 . 246 g / mol .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Benznidazole Structure Benznidazole is a yellowish , practically crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in acetone and ethanol , and slightly soluble in methanol .
Benznidazole Tablets are white round tablets each containing 12 . 5 mg or 100 mg of benznidazole , for oral use .
The 100 mg white tablets are round and functionally scored twice as a cross on both sides debossed with “ E ” on one side of each quarter portion .
The 12 . 5 mg white tablets are round and unscored debossed with “ E ” on one side .
The inactive ingredients are as follows : magnesium stearate , NF ; microcrystalline cellulose , NF ; monohydrate lactose , NF ; pre - gelatinized corn starch , NF ; and sodium croscarmellose , NF .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benznidazole is a nitroimidazole antimicrobial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of benznidazole is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absorption of benznidazole from three different 100 mg benznidazole preparations was comparable when administered as a single dose under fasting conditions in adult healthy volunteers ( Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Summary of Benznidazole Pharmacokinetic ( PK ) Parameters Following a Single Oral Dose of 100 mg Benznidazole Administered Under Fasting Conditions in Adult Healthy Volunteers .
Preparations for 100 mg Benznidazole Oral Dose One Benznidazole 100 mg Tablets Taken Whole Slurry prepared with one Benznidazole 100 mg Tablet Slurry prepared with eight Benznidazole 12 . 5 mg Tablet Parameter Mean ( SD ) Mean ( SD ) Mean ( SD ) Cmax ( mg / L ) 2 . 4 ( 0 . 5 ) 2 . 4 ( 0 . 4 ) 2 . 4 ( 0 . 4 ) Tmax a ( h ) 2 ( 1 - 4 ) 2 ( 0 . 5 - 4 ) 2 ( 1 - 4 . 5 ) AUC ( mg * h / L ) 43 . 5 ( 9 . 0 ) 41 . 8 ( 9 . 6 ) 44 . 1 ( 11 . 8 ) a Tmax is presented as median ( range ) Effect of Food Benznidazole Cmax and AUC were not affected by the administration of Benznidazole 100 mg tablet with a high - fat , high - caloric meal ( approximately 1034 total kcal , 67 kcal from fat , 42 kcal from carbohydrates , 59 kcal from protein ) compared with fasted conditions in adult healthy volunteers .
Serum concentrations of benznidazole reached peak levels at 3 . 2 hours ( 1 - 10 hours ) after administration of Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg tablet after a high - fat , high - caloric meal , and at 2 . 0 hours ( 0 . 5 - 4 hours ) in fasted conditions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Protein binding is reported to be approximately 44 to 60 % .
The mean blood : plasma radioactivity ratios , ranging from 0 . 63 to 1 . 10 , suggest that there is no preferential distribution of benznidazole into the red blood cells .
The apparent volume of distribution of benznidazole is approximately 45 L . Elimination The elimination half - life of benznidazole is approximately 13 hours in healthy volunteers following single dose .
The apparent total clearance of benznidazole is about 2 . 3 L / h .
Metabolism In plasma , benznidazole parent drug is the most abundant component , accounting for approximately 80 % of the total drug related exposure and no major circulating metabolites were identified .
The primary benznidazole metabolism pathway is indicated to be nitro reduction followed by glucuronidation .
Excretion Following oral administration of 100 mg radiolabeled benznidazole , about 68 % and 21 % of the radioactivity is recovered in urine ( 6 % of total dose as unchanged parent drug ) and feces ( unchanged parent drug not detected ) , respectively .
Specific Populations The effect of sex , race , renal impairment , or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of benznidazole is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies showed that benznidazole is a P - gp substrate and does not notably induce Cytochrome P450 enzymes 1A2 , 2B6 , and 3A4 at concentrations up to 100 mcM .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Benznidazole inhibits the synthesis of DNA , RNA , and proteins within the T . cruzi parasite .
Studies suggest that benznidazole is reduced by a Type I nitroreductase ( NTR ) enzyme of T . cruzi producing a series of short - lived intermediates that may promote damage to several macromolecules including DNA .
In mammalian cells , however , benznidazole is metabolized by reduction of the nitro group to an amino group by a Type II NTR enzyme .
The precise mechanism of action is not known .
Antimicrobial Activity Benznidazole is active against all three stages , trypomastigotes , amastigotes , and epimastigotes , of T . cruzi .
However , the sensitivity of T . cruzi strains to benznidazole , from different geographic regions , may vary .
Resistance Studies in vitro and in mice infected with T . cruzi suggest a potential for development of resistance to benznidazole .
The mechanisms of drug resistance appear to be multifactorial .
These mechanisms include decreased activity due to a mutation in the nitroreductase ( TcNTR ) gene .
Other mechanisms include higher efflux activity due to over expression of TcPGP 1 and TcPGP 2 genes that encode p - glycoprotein as well as TcABCG1 genes that encode ATP - binding cassette transporters .
Also , some studies reported overexpression of other genes TcFeSOD - A and TcCyP19 that encode superoxide dismutase and cyclophilin , respectively , which have diverse biological function and may help parasite survival .
However , the clinical relevance of these findings is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity Long - term carcinogenicity studies for benznidazole have not been performed .
Nitroimidazoles , which have similar chemical structures to benznidazole have been reported to be carcinogenic in mice and rats .
Genetic Toxicity Genotoxicity of benznidazole has been demonstrated in vitro in several bacterial species and mammalian cell systems and in vivo in mammals .
Benznidazole was mutagenic in several strains of S . typhimurium ( TA 100 , 102 1535 , 1537 , 1538 , 97 , 98 99 53 and UTH8414 ) , E . coli , and K . pneumoniae .
Benznidazole was genotoxic in several in vitro mammalian cell assays including a chromosome aberration assay in human lymphocytes and in sister chromatid exchange assays in human lymphocytes and in Human Hep G2 cells In vivo , benznidazole was shown to be positive for genotoxicity in a mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay , in mouse and human red blood cell micronucleus assays , in a mouse abnormal sperm head assay and in a human peripheral blood lymphocyte assay .
However in other micronucleus studies in mice and rats , oral doses of benznidazole did not cause a significant increase in the frequency of chromosomal aberrations in bone marrow cells or micronuclei in peripheral blood cells .
Impairment of Fertility In a 6 - month , chronic repeated - dosing study with Wistar rats , benznidazole was shown to produce dose - dependent testicular and epididymal atrophy at a dose of 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to 0 . 6 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparisons ) .
Aspermia was also evident in affected rats , but fertility was not assessed in this study .
The benznidazole dose that was not associated with adverse effects in this study was considered to be 10 mg / kg / day ( 5 mg / kg twice daily ) in males which is approximately 0 . 2 - times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison .
In other literature reports , benznidazole has been shown to cause testicular atrophy and inhibit spermatogenesis in pubertal and adult rats and mice 5 - 7 .
In a male fertility study , benznidazole was administered by oral ( gavage ) administration in daily doses of 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day to male Wistar rats beginning 10 weeks before mating , through mating , and for two weeks after mating for a total of 14 - weeks .
At the end of the dosing period , testicular and epididymal weights and the percent of normal sperm were decreased in mid - and high - dose males compared to control values .
Also altered gonadal function , mating behavior and reduced fertility associated with morphologically and functionally altered sperm and histological changes in the testes and epididymides was observed in high - dose males .
However , after a 22 - week treatment - free period , almost complete recovery was observed with fully restored fertility compared to control values .
After the 22 - week treatment - free period the remaining benznidazole - related effects included reduced testicular and epididymal weights ( 10 - 22 % reduction in absolute weight ) compared to control values at the high benznidazole dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to approximately 2 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison ) .
The benznidazole dose at which no adverse effect was observed was 10 mg / kg / day which is equivalent to approximately 0 . 2 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison .
In a female fertility study , benznidazole was administered by oral gavage to female Wistar rats in doses of 15 , 50 , and 150 mg / kg / day for a 2 - week pre - mating period , during mating , and through day 7 of gestation .
The high dose was associated with transient lower body weight gain and food consumption .
There were no benznidazole - related effects on mating performance or fertility and no adverse macroscopic or reproductive organ weight changes .
However , higher post - implantation loss with lower live litter size was observed at the high dose of 150 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to approximately 3 times the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison ) .
The benznidazole dose that was not associated with adverse effects for this study was considered to be 50 mg / kg / day which is approximately equivalent to the MRHD based on whole body surface area comparison .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Single oral dose toxicity studies in rats have established that benznidazole causes ultrastructural changes in the adrenal cortex , colon , esophagus , ovaries , and testis 5 , 8 - 11 .
In these tissues , these changes were associated with the presences of nitro reductase activity , the production of reactive metabolites , and or covalent binding of metabolites .
Neurotoxicity including brain axonal degeneration and Purkinje cell degeneration was observed with repeated - oral dosing in dogs without adverse changes in peripheral nerves 12 - 14 .
Neurological signs included : apathy , hypertonia , hyperreflexia , ataxia , loss of balance , oscillatory movements of the trunk and head , strong contractions of the back and leg muscles , opisthotonos and nystagmus .
Neurotoxicity was not observed in other test species , including mouse , rat , guinea pig , and rabbit .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and effectiveness of benznidazole for the treatment of Chagas disease in patients 6 to 12 years of age was established in two adequate and well - controlled trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) as described below .
Trial 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in children 6 to 12 years of age with chronic indeterminate Chagas disease conducted in Argentina .
The chronic indeterminate form of Chagas disease includes patients with serologic evidence of T . cruzi infection without symptoms of cardiac or gastrointestinal disease .
A total of 106 patients were randomized to receive either benznidazole ( 5 mg / kg / day for 60 days ) or placebo and followed for 4 years .
Patients with at least two positive conventional serologic tests for antibodies to T . cruzi were included in the study .
The conventional serologic tests used include indirect hemagglutination assay ( IHA ) , immunofluorescence antibody assay ( IFA ) , and / or enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and were based on the detection of antibodies against T . cruzi parasites .
Trial 2 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in pediatric patients 7 to 12 years of age with chronic indeterminate Chagas disease conducted in Brazil .
A total of 129 patients were randomized to receive either benznidazole ( 7 . 5 mg / kg / day for 60 days ) or placebo and followed for 3 years .
Patients with three positive conventional serologic tests for antibodies to T . cruzi were included in the study .
The conventional serologic tests include IHA , IFA , and / or ELISA and were based on the detection of antibodies against T . cruzi parasites .
Both trials measured antibodies by conventional and nonconventional assays .
The nonconventional assays include F29 - ELISA and AT - chemiluminescence - ELISA that are based on detection of anti - T . cruzi IgG antibodies against the recombinant antigens , F29 and AT from the flagella of T . cruzi parasites .
Benznidazole treatment resulted in a significantly higher percentage of seronegative patients by a nonconventional assay .
Results at the end of follow - up are reported in the following table .
Table 7 : Nonconventional ELISA a Serologic Status at End - of - Follow - Up ( mITT population b ) a Enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( F29 ELISA in Study Trial 1 and AT chemiluminescence - ELISA in Trial 2 ) ; the F29 and AT antigens represent antigens from the flagella of T . cruzi parasites .
b Modified intent to treat ( mITT ) population includes subjects who are positive for the assay at baseline ; c Exact confidence intervals presented .
Benznidazole Placebo Difference ( 95 % CI ) c Trial 1 N = 40 N = 37 Seronegative 24 ( 60 . 0 ) 5 ( 13 . 5 ) 46 . 5 ( 24 . 5 , 64 . 4 ) Seropositive 15 29 Missing 1 3 Trial 2 N = 64 N = 65 Seronegative 35 ( 54 . 7 ) 3 ( 4 . 6 ) 50 . 1 ( 35 . 8 , 63 . 4 ) Seropositive 23 51 Missing 6 11 In Trial 1 using conventional ELISA , 4 of 53 ( 7 . 5 % ) benznidazole subjects and 2 of 50 ( 4 . 0 % ) placebo subjects seroconverted to negative by the end of follow - up ( difference 3 . 5 , 95 % CI ( - 7 . 0 , 14 . 9 ) ) .
In Trial 2 using conventional ELISA , 4 of 64 ( 6 . 3 % ) of benznidazole subjects and 0 of 65 placebo subjects seroconverted to negative by the end of follow - up ( difference 6 . 3 , 95 % CI ( 0 . 3 , 15 . 2 ) ) .
15 REFERENCES • Sosa Estani S , et al . , 1998 , Efficacy of Chemotherapy with Benznidazole in Children in the Indeterminate Phase of Chagas ' Disease .
Am J Trop Med Hyg 59 : 526 - 529 .
• de Andrade , Ana Lucia S . Sgambatti , et al . , 1996 , Randomised Trial of Efficacy of Benznidazole in Treatment of Early Trypanosoma cruzi Infection .
Lancet 348 : 1407 - 1413 .
• Altcheh , Jaime , et al . , 2014 , Population Pharmacokinetic Study of Benznidazole in Pediatric Chagas Disease Suggests Efficacy Despite Lower Plasma Concentrations than in Adults .
PLoS Negl Trop Dis 8 : e2907 .
• García - Bournissen , F , S Moroni , ME Marson , et al . , 2015 , Limited Infant Exposure to Benznidazole Through Breast Milk During Maternal Treatment for Chagas Disease .
Arch Dis Child 100 : 90 - 94 .
• Bernacchi , AS , CR de Castro , EG de Toranzo , and JA Castro , 1986 , Effects of Nifurtimox or Benznidazole Administration on Rat Testes : Ultrastructural Observations and Biochemical Studies , Exp Mol Pathol 45 : 245 - 256 .
• Vieira , CL , TL Lamano - Carvalho , AL Favaretto , MM Valenca , J Antunes - Rodridgues , and AA Barreira , 1989 , Testes Alterations in Pubertal Benznidazole - treated Rats , Braz J Med Biol Res , 22 : 695 - 698 .
• Navarro , ML and R Nagel , 1990 , Abnormal Sperm Induced in Mice by Oral Administration of Antichagasic Drugs , Comunicaciones Biologicas , 8 : 251 - 258 .
• de Castro , RC , EG Diaz de Toranzo , and JA Castro , 1992 , Benznidazole - induced Ultrastructural Alterations in Rat Adrenal Cortex : Mechanistic Studies , Toxicology , 74 : 223 - 232 .
• Diaz , EG , RC de Castro , M Montalto de Mecca , and JA Castro , 2000 , Benznidazole - induced Ultrastructural and Biochemical Alterations in Rat Colon , Acta Pharmacol Sin , 21 : 961 - 966 .
• de Castro , RC , M Montalto de Mecca , SL Fanelli , EC de Ferreyra , EG Diaz , and JA Castro , 2003 , Benznidazole - induced Ultrastructural and Biochemical Alterations in Rat Esophagus , Toxicology , 191 : 189 - 198 .
• de Castro , CR , EGD de Toranzo , AS Bernacchi , M Carbone , and JA Castro , 1989 , Ultrastructural Alterations in Ovaries from Nifurtimox or Benznidazole - treated Rats : Their Relation to Ovarian Nitroreductive Biotransformation of Both Drugs , Exp Mol Pathol , 50 : 385 - 397 .
• Scharer , K , 1972 , Selective Purkinje Cell Damage in Dogs after Oral Administration of High Doses of Nitroimidazole Derivatives , Verhandlungen der Deutschen Gesellschaft fur Pathologie , 56 : 407 - 10 .
• Flores - Vieira , CLL and AA Barreira , 1997 a , Experimental Benznidazole Encephalopathy : I . Clinical - Neurological Alterations , J Neurol Sci , 150 : 3 - 11 .
• Flores - Vieira , CLL , L Chimelli , RMF Fernandez , and AA Barreira , 1997 b , Experimental Benznidazole Encephalopathy : II .
Electroencephalographic and Morphological Alterations , J Neurol Sci , 150 : 13 - 25 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Benznidazole Tablets ( 12 . 5 mg or 100 mg ) are supplied as follows : • 100 mg white tablets , round and functionally scored twice as a cross on both sides .
Each tablet is about 10 mm in diameter debossed with “ E ” on one side of each quarter portion .
• 12 . 5 mg white tablets , round and unscored .
Each tablet is about 5 mm in diameter debossed with “ E ” on one side .
Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg are available in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 0642 - 7464 - 10 ) .
Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg are available in bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 0642 - 7463 - 12 ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep bottle tightly closed and protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential that exposure to Benznidazole Tablets during pregnancy can result in fetal harm .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception while taking Benznidazole Tablets and for 5 days after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with Benznidazole Tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise males of reproductive potential that Benznidazole Tablets may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Advise patients and parents / caregivers of pediatric patients taking Benznidazole Tablets that : • Benznidazole Tablets 100 mg are functionally scored tablets which can be split into one - half ( 50 mg ) or one - quarter ( 25 mg ) at the scored lines to provide doses less than 100 mg .
• Benznidazole Tablets 12 . 5 mg and 100 mg ( whole or split ) can be made into a slurry in a specified volume of water for the pediatric population [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Skin Reactions Advise patients that serious skin reactions can occur with Benznidazole Tablets .
In case of skin reactions , presenting with additional symptoms of systemic involvement such as lymphadenopathy , fever and / or purpura , discontinuation of treatment is necessary .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Advise patients that treatment can potentially cause paresthesia or symptoms of peripheral neuropathy .
In cases where neurological symptoms occur , immediate discontinuation of treatment is recommended .
Hematological Manifestations of Bone Marrow Depression Advise patients that there have been hematological manifestations of bone marrow depression , such as anemia and leukopenia , which are reversible , and normalized after treatment discontinuation .
Manufactured for Chemo Research , S . L . Madrid , Spain Manufactured by Laboratorios Liconsa S . A . Guadalajara , Spain Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 [ MULTIMEDIA ] INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE BENZNIDAZOLE tablets , for oral use Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking BENZNIDAZOLE and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Note : • Your doctor may need to change your dose of BENZNIDAZOLE during treatment as needed .
• BENZNIDAZOLE 100 mg tablets can be taken whole or broken at scored lines .
• BENZNIDAZOLE 100 mg tablets are marked with scored lines and may be broken at these scored lines to provide the following doses : 75 mg , 50 mg and 25 mg .
100 mg treatment ( take the whole tablet ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to break your BENZNIDAZOLE 100 mg tablet : • Hold the tablet between your thumbs and index fingers close to the scored line ( See Figure 1 ) .
• Apply enough pressure to break the tablet at the scored line ( See Figure 2 ) .
• Only use a tablet that has been broken at the scored line ( See Figure 3 ) .
• Do not break the BENZNIDAZOLE 100 mg tablet in any other way .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 75 mg treatment ( take one - half of the tablet and one - fourth of the tablet ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 mg treatment ( take one - half of the tablet ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 25 mg treatment ( take one - fourth of the tablet ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store BENZNIDAZOLE ?
• Store BENZNIDAZOLE at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Keep BENZNIDAZOLE in the bottle that it comes in and keep the bottle tightly closed .
• Keep BENZNIDAZOLE away from moisture .
Keep BENZNIDAZOLE and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Laboratori os Liconsa S . A . , Guadalajara , Spain Issued : August 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mg CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0642 - 7464 - 10 Benznidazole tablets 100 mg For oral use Rx only 100 tablets Exeltis Rethinking healthcare Keep out of the reach of children .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Keep bottle tightly closed and protect from moisture .
Manufactured for Chemo Research , S . L . , Madrid , Spain .
Manufactured by Laboratorios Liconsa S . A . , Avenida Miralcampo 7 , Pol .
Ind .
Miralcampo , Azuqueca de Henares , Guadalajara 19200 , Spain .
Distributed by Exeltis USA , Inc . , Florham Park , NJ , USA .
1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2017 Exeltis USA , Inc .
See prescribing information for Dosage and Administration .
Benznidazole tablets 100 mg Benznidazole tablets 100 mg Lot No . : Expiry date : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 . 5 mg CARTON [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0642 - 7463 - 12 Benznidazole tablets 12 . 5 mg For oral use Rx only 100 tablets Exeltis Rethinking healthcare Keep out of the reach of children .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Keep bottle tightly closed and protect from moisture .
Manufactured for Chemo Research , S . L . , Madrid , Spain .
Manufactured by Laboratorios Liconsa S . A . , Avenida Miralcampo 7 , Pol .
Ind .
Miralcampo , Azuqueca de Henares , Guadalajara 19200 , Spain .
Distributed by Exeltis USA , Inc . , Florham Park , NJ , USA .
1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2017 Exeltis USA , Inc .
See prescribing information for Dosage and Administration .
Benznidazole tablets 12 . 5 mg Benznidazole tablets 12 . 5 mg Lot No . : Expiry date : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
