Drug Facts Active Ingredient Menthol 5 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieve minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to • simple backache • arthritis • muscle strains • bursitis • tendonitis • muscle sprains • bruises • cramps WARNINGS : EXTERNAL USE ONLY When using this product USE ONLY AS DIRECTED .
• do not bandage tightly or use with a heating pad • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
STOP USE and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • redness is present • skin irritation develops If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) immediately .
DIRECTIONS Adults and Children 12 years of age and older : • Peel off protective backing and apply sticky side to affected area .
Carefully remove backing from patch • Should be used up to 8 hours • Should be used no more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 12 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information • store at room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 to 25 ° C ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , sodium polyacrylate , aluminum glycinate , kaolin , methylparaben , propylparaben , alcohol , titanium dioxide , tartaric acid , sorbitan monooleate , polysorbate 80 , purified water FAST RELIEF OF MINOR ACHES AND PAINS * Compare to the active ingredient in Icy Hot ® Patch Contains Menthol 5 % Pain relieving ointment on a breathable adhesive pad EXTRA STRENGTH COLD & HOT MEDICATED PATCH works on contact providing pain relief that lasts for hours .
The thin , flexible patch is comfortable to wear and is easy to remove .
* This product is NOT manufactured or distributed by Chattem Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Icy Hot ® Patch .
Distributed by : Universal Distribution Center 96 Distribution Boulevard • Edison , NJ 08817 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
