SUICIDALITY AND ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults in short - term studies of major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Anyone considering the use of Nortriptyline Hydrochloride Oral Solution or any other antidepressant in a child , adolescent , or young adult must balance this risk with the clinical need .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
Depression and certain other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated with increases in the risk of suicide .
Patients of all ages who are started on antidepressant therapy should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , or unusual changes in behavior .
Families and caregivers should be advised of the need for close observation and communication with the prescriber .
Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in pediatric patients .
( See Warnings : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk , Precautions : Information for Patients , and Precautions : Pediatric Use ) DESCRIPTION Nortriptyline Hydrochloride , USP is 1 - propanamine , 3 - ( 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cyclohepten - 5 - ylidene ) - N - methyl , hydrochloride .
Its molecular weight is 299 . 8 , and its molecular formula is C19H21N • HCl .
The oral solution contains nortriptyline hydrochloride equivalent to 10 mg / 5 mL ( 38 . 0 µmol ) of the base and 4 % alcohol .
It also contains benzoic acid , flavors , sorbitol , and water .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ACTIONS The mood elevating mechanism of tricyclic antidepressants is at present unknown .
Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor .
It inhibits the activity of such diverse agents as histamine , 5 - hydroxytryptamine , and acetylcholine .
It increases the pressor effect of norepinephrine but blocks the pressor response of phenethylamine .
Studies suggest that nortriptyline hydrochloride interferes with the transport , release , and storage of catecholamines .
Operant conditioning techniques in rats and pigeons suggest that nortriptyline hydrochloride has a combination of stimulant and depressant properties .
INDICATIONS Nortriptyline hydrochloride is indicated for the relief of symptoms of depression .
Endogenous depressions are more likely to be alleviated than are other depressive states .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The concurrent use of nortriptyline hydrochloride or other tricyclic antidepressants with a monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitor is contraindicated .
Hyperpyretic crises , severe convulsions , and fatalities have occurred when similar tricyclic antidepressants were used in such combinations .
It is advisable to discontinue the MAO inhibitor at least 2 weeks before treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride is to be started .
Patients hypersensitive to nortriptyline hydrochloride should not be given the drug .
Cross - sensitivity between nortriptyline hydrochloride and other dibenzazepines is a possibility .
Nortriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated during the acute recovery period after myocardial infarction .
WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , both adult and pediatric , may experience worsening of their depression and / or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior ( suicidality ) or unusual changes in behavior , whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications , and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs .
Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide .
There has been a long - standing concern , however , that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment .
Pooled analyses of short - term placebo - controlled trials of antidepressant drugs ( SSRIs and others ) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior ( suicidality ) in children , adolescents , and young adults ( ages 18 to 24 ) with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) and other psychiatric disorders .
Short - term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24 ; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD , obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) , or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short - term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients .
The pooled analyses of placebo - controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short - term trials ( median duration of 2 months ) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77 , 000 patients .
There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs , but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied .
There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications , with the highest incidence in MDD .
The risk differences ( drug vs placebo ) , however , were relatively stable within age strata and across indications .
These risk differences ( drug - placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated ) are provided in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials .
There were suicides in the adult trials , but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide .
It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer - term use , i . e . , beyond several months .
However , there is substantial evidence from placebo - controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression .
All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening , suicidality , and unusual changes in behavior , especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy , or at times of dose changes , either increases or decreases .
The following symptoms , anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , and mania , have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric .
Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established , there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality .
Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen , including possibly discontinuing the medication , in patients whose depression is persistently worse , or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality , especially if these symptoms are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Families and caregivers of pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications , both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric , should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation , irritability , unusual changes in behavior , and the other symptoms described above , as well as the emergence of suicidality , and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers .
Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers .
Prescriptions for nortriptyline hydrochloride oral solution should be written for the smallest quantity consistent with good patient management , in order to reduce the risk of overdose .
Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder : A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder .
It is generally believed ( though not established in controlled trials ) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed / manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder .
Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown .
However , prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant , patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder ; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history , including a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , and depression .
It should be noted that nortriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression .
Patients with cardiovascular disease should be given nortriptyline hydrochloride only under close supervision because of the tendency of the drug to produce sinus tachycardia and to prolong the conduction time .
Myocardial infarction , arrhythmia , and strokes have occurred .
The antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similar agents may be blocked .
Because of its anticholinergic activity , nortriptyline hydrochloride should be used with great caution in patients who have glaucoma or a history of urinary retention .
Patients with a history of seizures should be followed closely when nortriptyline hydrochloride is administered , because this drug is known to lower the convulsive threshold .
Great care is required if nortriptyline hydrochloride is given to hyperthyroid patients or to those receiving thyroid medication , because cardiac arrhythmias may develop .
Nortriptyline hydrochloride may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a car ; therefore , the patient should be warned accordingly .
Excessive consumption of alcohol in combination with nortriptyline therapy may have a potentiating effect , which may lead to the danger of increased suicidal attempts or overdosage , especially in patients with histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation .
Use in Pregnancy -- Safe use of nortriptyline hydrochloride during pregnancy and lactation has not been established ; therefore , when the drug is administered to pregnant patients , nursing mothers , or women of childbearing potential , the potential benefits must be weighed against the possible hazards .
Animal reproduction studies have yielded inconclusive results .
PRECAUTIONS Information for Patients Prescribers or other health professionals should inform patients , their families , and their caregivers about the benefits and risks associated with treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride and should counsel them in its appropriate use .
A patient Medication Guide About Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illness , and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions is available for nortriptyline hydrochloride .
The prescriber or health professional should instruct patients and their caregivers to read the Medication Guide and should assist them in understanding its contents .
Patients should be given the opportunity to discuss the contents of the Medication Guide and to obtain answers to any questions they may have .
The complete text of the Medication Guide is reprinted at the end of this document .
Patients should be advised of the following issues and asked to alert their prescribers if these occur while taking nortriptyline hydrochloride .
Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients , their families , and their caregivers should be encouraged to be alert to the emergence of anxiety , agitation , panic attacks , insomnia , irritability , hostility , aggressiveness , impulsivity , akathisia ( psychomotor restlessness ) , hypomania , mania , other unusual changes in behavior , worsening of depression , and suicidal ideation , especially early during antidepressant treatment and when the dose is adjusted up or down .
Families and caregivers of patients should be advised to observe for the emergence of such symptoms on a day - to - day basis , since changes may be abrupt .
Such symptoms should be reported to the patient ' s prescriber or health professional , especially if they are severe , abrupt in onset , or were not part of the patient ' s presenting symptoms .
Symptoms such as these may be associated with an increased risk for suicidal thinking and behavior and indicate a need for very close monitoring and possibly changes in the medication .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established ( see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS — Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ) .
Anyone considering the use of nortriptyline hydrochloride in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need .
General The use of nortriptyline hydrochloride in schizophrenic patients may result in exacerbation of the psychosis or may activate latent schizophrenic symptoms .
If the drug is given to overactive or agitated patients , increased anxiety and agitation may occur .
In manic - depressive patients , nortriptyline hydrochloride may cause symptoms of the manic phase to emerge .
Troublesome patient hostility may be aroused by the use of nortriptyline hydrochloride .
As may happen with other drugs of its class , epileptiform seizures may accompany its administration .
When it is essential , the drug may be administered concurrently with electroconvulsive therapy , although the hazards may be increased .
Discontinue the drug for several days , if possible , prior to elective surgery .
The possibility of a suicidal attempt by a depressed patient remains after the initiation of treatment ; in this regard , it is important that the least possible quantity of drug be dispensed at any given time .
Both elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels have been reported .
A case of significant hypoglycemia has been reported after the addition of nortriptyline ( 125 mg / day ) in a type II diabetic patient maintained on chlorpropamide ( 250 mg / day ) .
Drug Interactions Steady - state serum concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants are reported to fluctuate significantly when cimetidine is either added or deleted from the drug regimen .
Serious anticholinergic symptoms ( severe dry mouth , urinary retention , blurred vision ) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressants when cimetidine is added to the drug regimen .
In addition , higher - than expected steady - state serum concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants have been observed when therapy is initiated in patients already taking cimetidine .
In well - controlled patients undergoing concurrent therapy with cimetidine , a decrease in the steady - state serum concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants may occur when cimetidine therapy is discontinued .
The therapeutic efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants may be compromised in these patients when cimetidine is discontinued .
Several of the tricyclic antidepressants have been cited in these reports .
There have been greater than 2 - fold increases in previously stable plasma levels of other antidepressants , including nortriptyline , when fluoxetine hydrochloride has been administered in combination with these agents .
Fluoxetine and its active metabolite , norfluoxetine , have long half - lives ( 4 to 16 days for norfluoxetine ) , that may affect strategies during conversion from one drug to the other .
Administration of reserpine during therapy with a tricyclic antidepressant has been shown to produce a “ stimulating ” effect in some depressed patients .
Close supervision and careful adjustment of the dosage are required when nortriptyline hydrochloride is used with other anticholinergic drugs or sympathomimetic drugs .
The patient should be informed that the response to alcohol may be exaggerated .
Drugs Metabolized by P450IID6 A subset ( 3 % to 10 % ) of the population has reduced activity of certain drug metabolizing enzymes such as the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme P450IID6 .
Such individuals are referred to as “ poor metabolizers ” of drugs such as debrisoquin , dextromethorphan , and the tricyclic antidepressants .
These individuals may have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants when given usual doses .
In addition , certain drugs that are metabolized by this isoenzyme , including many antidepressants ( tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , and others ) , may inhibit the activity of this isoenzyme , and thus may make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers with regard to concomitant therapy with other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system , leading to drug interactions .
Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with other drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug .
Therefore , co - administration of tricyclic antidepressants with other drugs that are metabolized by this isoenzyme , including other antidepressants , phenothiazines , carbamazepine , and Type 1 C antiarrhythmics ( eg , propafenone , flecainide , and encainide ) , or that inhibit this enzyme ( eg , quinidine ) , should be approached with caution .
Geriatric Use Confusional states following tricyclic antidepressant administration have been reported in the elderly ( see Adverse Reactions ) .
Higher plasma concentrations of the active nortriptyline metabolite 10 - hydroxynortriptyline have been reported in elderly patients ( see Plasma Levels under Dosage and Administration ) .
Lower than usual dosages are recommended for elderly patients ( see Elderly Patients under Dosage and Administration ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS NOTE : Included in the following list are a few adverse reactions that have not been reported with this specific drug .
However , the pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic antidepressant drugs require that each of these reactions be considered when nortriptyline is administered .
Cardiovascular -- Hypotension , hypertension , tachycardia , palpitation , myocardial infarction , arrhythmias , heart block , stroke .
Psychiatric -- Confusional states ( especially in the elderly ) , with hallucinations , disorientation , delusions ; anxiety , restlessness , agitation ; insomnia , panic , nightmares ; hypomania ; exacerbation of psychosis .
Neurologic -- Numbness , tingling , paresthesias of extremities ; incoordination , ataxia , tremors ; peripheral neuropathy ; extrapyramidal symptoms ; seizures , alteration of EEG patterns ; tinnitus .
Anticholinergic -- Dry mouth and , rarely , associated sublingual adenitis or gingivitis ; blurred vision , disturbance of accommodation , mydriasis ; constipation , paralytic ileus ; urinary retention , delayed micturition , dilation of the urinary tract .
Allergic -- Skin rash , petechiae , urticaria , itching , photosensitization ( avoid excessive exposure to sunlight ) ; edema ( general or of face and tongue ) , drug fever , cross - sensitivity with other tricyclic drugs .
Hematologic -- Bone - marrow depression , including agranulocytosis ; aplastic anemia ; eosinophilia ; purpura ; thrombocytopenia .
Gastrointestinal -- Nausea and vomiting , anorexia , epigastric distress , diarrhea ; peculiar taste , stomatitis , abdominal cramps , black tongue , constipation , paralytic ileus .
Endocrine -- Gynecomastia in the male ; breast enlargement and galactorrhea in the female ; increased or decreased libido , impotence ; testicular swelling ; elevation or depression of blood sugar levels ; syndrome of inappropriate ADH ( antidiuretic hormone ) secretion .
Other -- Jaundice ( simulating obstructive ) ; altered liver function , hepatitis , and liver necrosis ; weight gain or loss ; perspiration ; flushing ; urinary frequency , nocturia ; drowsiness , dizziness , weakness , fatigue ; headache ; parotid swelling ; alopecia .
Withdrawal Symptoms -- Though these are not indicative of addiction , abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged therapy may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
OVERDOSAGE Deaths may occur from overdosage with this class of drugs .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate tricyclic antidepressant overdose .
As the management is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity develop rapidly after tricyclic antidepressant overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
Manifestations Critical manifestations of overdose include : cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , convulsions , and CNS depression , including coma .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic antidepressant toxicity .
Other signs of overdose may include : confusion , disturbed concentration , transient visual hallucinations , dilated pupils , agitation , hyperactive reflexes , stupor , drowsiness , muscle rigidity , vomiting , hypothermia , hyperpyrexia , or many of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Management General Obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
A minimum of six hours of observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is required .
There are case reports of patients succumbing to fatal dysrhythmias late after overdose ; these patients had clinical evidence of significant poisoning prior to death and most received inadequate gastrointestinal decontamination .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of tricyclic antidepressant overdose should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage .
Emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Intravenous sodium bicarbonate should be used to maintain the serum pH in the range of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 .
If the pH response is inadequate , hyperventilation may also be used .
Concomitant use of hyperventilation and sodium bicarbonate should be done with extreme caution , with frequent pH monitoring .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO 2 < 20 mm Hg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( eg , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
In rare instances , hemoperfusion may be beneficial in acute refractory cardiovascular instability in patients with acute toxicity .
However , hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , exchange transfusions , and forced diuresis generally have been reported as ineffective in tricycic antidepressant poisoning .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines , or if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( eg , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of pediatric and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not recommended for pediatric patients .
Nortriptyline hydrochloride is administered orally in the form of an oral solution .
Lower than usual dosages are recommended for elderly patients .
The use of lower dosages for outpatients is more important than for hospitalized patients who will be treated under close supervision .
The physician should initiate dosage at a low level and increase it gradually , checking the clinical response carefully and noting any evidence of intolerance .
Following remission , maintenance medication may be required for a longer period of time at the lowest dose that will maintain remission .
If a patient develops minor side effects , the dosage should be reduced .
The drug should be discontinued promptly if adverse effects of a serious nature or allergic manifestations occur .
Usual Adult Dose 25 mg 3 or 4 times daily ; dosage should begin at a low level and be increased as required .
As an alternate regimen , the total daily dose may be given once a day .
When doses above 100 mg daily are administered , plasma levels of nortriptyline should be monitored and maintained in the optimum range of 50 to 150 ng / mL .
Doses above 150 mg per day are not recommended .
Elderly Patients 30 to 50 mg / day in divided doses .
Plasma Levels Optimal responses to nortriptyline have been associated with plasma concentrations of 50 to 150 ng / mL .
Higher concentrations may be associated with more adverse experiences .
Plasma concentrations are difficult to measure , and physicians should consult with the laboratory professional staff .
Larger plasma concentrations of the active nortriptyline metabolite 10 - hydroxynortriptyline have been reported in older patients .
In one case , such a condition was associated with apparent cardiotoxicity despite the fact that nortriptyline concentrations were within the “ therapeutic range . ”
Clinical findings should predominate over plasma concentrations as primary determinants of dosage changes .
HOW SUPPLIED Liquid , Oral Solution : 10 mg * / 5 mL -- ( 16 fl oz ) NDC 63304 - 202 - 01 * Equivalent to base .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ohm Laboratories Inc .
Gloversville , NY 12078 USA August 2007 MEDICATION GUIDE Antidepressant Medicines , Depression and other Serious Mental Illness and Suicidal Thoughts or Actions Read the Medication Guide that comes with you or your family member ’ s antidepressant medicine .
This Medication Guide is only about the risk of suicidal thoughts and actions with antidepressant medicines .
Talk to your , or your family member ’ s , healthcare provider about : • all risks and benefits of treatment with antidepressant medicines • all treatment choices for depression or other serious mental illness What is the most important information I should know about antidepressant medicines , depression and other serious mental illnesses , and suicidal thoughts or actions ?
1 .
Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children , teenagers , and young adults within the first few months of treatment .
2 .
Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and actions .
Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions .
These include people who have ( or have a family history of ) bipolar illness also called manic - depressive illness ) or suicidal thoughts or actions .
3 .
How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member ?
• Pay close attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed .
• Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood , behavior , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call the healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you have concerns about symptoms .
Call ahealthcare provider right away if your family member has any of the following symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempts to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling very agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines ?
• Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping an antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms .
• Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses .
It is important to discuss all the risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it .
Patients and their families or other caregivers should discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider , not just the use of antidepressants .
• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects .
Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the medicine prescribed for you or your family member .
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines .
Know all of the medicines that you or your family member takes .
Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider .
Do not start new medicines without first checking with your healthcare provider .
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children .
Talk to your child ’ s healthcare provider for more information .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration for all antidepressants .
Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Jacksonville , FL 32257 USA by : Ohm Laboratories Inc .
Gloversville , NY 12078 USA August 2007
