Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 5 . 6 % Purpose Pain Relieving Patch Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience pain , swelling or blistering of the skin • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : Clean and dry affected area , pop apart and partially peel back protective film and apply exposed patch to site of pain .
Carefully remove remaining film while pressing the patch to skin and leave in place for up to 8 hours .
Use on affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• do not stretch the patch during application as it should be comfortable and not tight • do not overwrap or wrap patches over themselves • for best adhesion : area should be clean , dry , and smooth • children under 12 years of age : consult a physician • wash hands after use with cool water Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • store in a cool dry place away from direct sunlight Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Benzalkonium Chloride , Boswellia Carterii Resin Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Edetate Disodium , Glycerin , Isopropyl Myristate , Kaolin , L - Tartaric Acid , Lauralkonium Chloride , Mineral Oil , Nonoxynol - 10 , Petrolatum , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , PVP , Sodium Polyacrylate , Titanium Dioxide , Water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 246 - 3733 Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 Strip Carton CLINICALLY RECOMMENDED * NDC 59316 - 004 - 04 BiOFREEZE ® COOL THE PAIN FLEXIBLE RELIEF STRIPS MENTHOL - PAIN RELIEVING PATCH Designed to provide up to 8 hours of long lasting pain relief Strong adhesion to stay through any movement Optimal thickness for comfort and flexiblity 4 STRIPS | EXTRA LONG 10 in x 2 in ( 25 . 4 cm x 5 cm ) each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
