DESCRIPTION Methyldopa is an antihypertensive drug .
Methyldopa is the L - isomer of alpha - methyldopa .
Its chemical name is levo - 3 - ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) - 2 - methylalanine sesquihydrate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C10H13NO4 • 1 1 / 2 H2O M . W . 238 . 24 Methyldopa is a white to yellowish white , odorless fine powder , and is soluble in water .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 250 mg or 500 mg of methyldopa .
Potency is calculated in the anhydrous basis .
Inactive ingredients : citric acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , edetate disodium , ethylcellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methylcellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 250 mg tablet contains calcium sulfate , hydroxypropyl cellulose , and talc , and the 500 mg tablet contains polysorbate 80 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methyldopa is an aromatic - amino - acid decarboxylase inhibitor in animals and in man .
Although the mechanism of action has yet to be conclusively demonstrated , the antihypertensive effect of methyldopa probably is due to its metabolism to alpha - methylnorepinephrine , which then lowers arterial pressure by stimulation of central inhibitory alpha - adrenergic receptors , false neurotransmission , and / or reduction of plasma renin activity .
Methyldopa has been shown to cause a net reduction in the tissue concentration of serotonin , dopamine , norepinephrine , and epinephrine .
Only methyldopa , the L - isomer of alpha - methyldopa , has the ability to inhibit dopa decarboxylase and to deplete animal tissues of norepinephrine .
In man , the antihypertensive activity appears to be due solely to the L - isomer .
About twice the dose of the racemate ( DL - alpha - methyldopa ) is required for equal antihypertensive effect .
Methyldopa has no direct effect on cardiac function and usually does not reduce glomerular filtration rate , renal blood flow , or filtration fraction .
Cardiac output usually is maintained without cardiac acceleration .
In some patients the heart rate is slowed .
Normal or elevated plasma renin activity may decrease in the course of methyldopa therapy .
Methyldopa reduces both supine and standing blood pressure .
Methyldopa usually produces highly effective lowering of the supine pressure with infrequent symptomatic postural hypotension .
Exercise hypotension and diurnal blood pressure variations rarely occur .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism The maximum decrease in blood pressure occurs four to six hours after oral dosage .
Once an effective dosage level is attained , a smooth blood pressure response occurs in most patients in 12 to 24 hours .
After withdrawal , blood pressure usually returns to pretreatment levels within 24 - 48 hours .
Methyldopa is extensively metabolized .
The known urinary metabolites are : α - methyldopa mono - 0 - sulfate ; 3 - 0 - methyl - α - methyldopa ; 3 , 4 , - dihydroxyphenylacetone ; α - methyldopamine ; 3 - 0 - methyl - α - methyldopamine and their conjugates .
Approximately 70 % of the drug which is absorbed is excreted in the urine as methyldopa and its mono - 0 - sulfate conjugate .
The renal clearance is about 130 mL / min .
in normal subjects and is diminished in renal insufficiency .
The plasma half - life of methyldopa is 105 minutes .
After oral doses , excretion is essentially complete in 36 hours .
Methyldopa crosses the placental barrier , appears in cord blood , and appears in breast milk .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methyldopa is contraindicated in patients : - with active hepatic disease , such as acute hepatitis and active cirrhosis .
- with liver disorders previously associated with methyldopa therapy ( see WARNINGS ) .
- with hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
- on therapy with monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
WARNINGS It is important to recognize that a positive Coombs test , hemolytic anemia , and liver disorders may occur with methyldopa therapy .
The rare occurrences of hemolytic anemia or liver disorders could lead to potentially fatal complications unless properly recognized and managed .
Read this section carefully to understand these reactions .
With prolonged methyldopa therapy , 10 to 20 percent of patients develop a positive direct Coombs test which usually occurs between 6 and 12 months of methyldopa therapy .
Lowest incidence is at daily dosage of 1 g or less .
This on rare occasions may be associated with hemolytic anemia , which could lead to potentially fatal complications .
One cannot predict which patients with a positive direct Coombs test may develop hemolytic anemia .
Prior existence or development of a positive direct Coombs test is not in itself a contraindication to use of methyldopa .
If a positive Coombs test develops during methyldopa therapy , the physician should determine whether hemolytic anemia exists and whether the positive Coombs test may be a problem .
For example , in addition to a positive direct Coombs test there is less often a positive indirect Coombs test which may interfere with cross matching of blood .
Before treatment is started , it is desirable to do a blood count ( hematocrit , hemoglobin , or red cell count ) for a baseline or to establish whether there is anemia .
Periodic blood counts should be done during therapy to detect hemolytic anemia .
It may be useful to do a direct Coombs test before therapy and at 6 and 12 months after the start of therapy .
If Coombs - positive hemolytic anemia occurs , the cause may be methyldopa and the drug should be discontinued .
Usually the anemia remits promptly .
If not , corticosteroids may be given and other causes of anemia should be considered .
If the hemolytic anemia is related to methyldopa , the drug should not be reinstituted .
When methyldopa causes Coombs positivity alone or with hemolytic anemia , the red cell is usually coated with gamma globulin of the IgG ( gamma G ) class only .
The positive Coombs test may not revert to normal until weeks to months after methyldopa is stopped .
Should the need for transfusion arise in a patient receiving methyldopa , both a direct and an indirect Coombs test should be performed .
In the absence of hemolytic anemia , usually only the direct Coombs test will be positive .
A positive direct Coombs test alone will not interfere with typing or cross matching .
If the indirect Coombs test is also positive , problems may arise in the major cross match and the assistance of a hematologist or transfusion expert will be needed .
Occasionally , fever has occurred within the first 3 weeks of methyldopa therapy , associated in some cases with eosinophilia or abnormalities in one or more liver function tests , such as serum alkaline phosphatase , serum transaminases ( SGOT , SGPT ) , bilirubin and prothrombin time .
Jaundice , with or without fever , may occur with onset , usually within the first 2 or 3 months of therapy .
In some patients the findings are consistent with those of cholestasis .
In others the findings are consistent with hepatitis and hepatocellular injury .
Rarely , fatal hepatic necrosis has been reported after use of methyldopa .
These hepatic changes may represent hypersensitivity reactions .
Periodic determinations of hepatic function should be done , particularly during the first 6 to 12 weeks of therapy or whenever an unexplained fever occurs .
If fever , abnormalities in liver function tests , or jaundice appear , stop therapy with methyldopa .
If caused by methyldopa , the temperature and abnormalities in liver function characteristically have reverted to normal when the drug was discontinued .
Methyldopa should not be reinstituted in such patients .
Rarely , a reversible reduction of the white blood cell count with a primary effect on the granulocytes has been seen .
The granulocyte count returned promptly to normal on discontinuance of the drug .
Rare cases of granulocytopenia have been reported .
In each instance , upon stopping the drug , the white cell count returned to normal .
Reversible thrombocytopenia has occurred rarely .
PRECAUTIONS General Methyldopa should be used with caution in patients with a history of previous liver disease or dysfunction ( See WARNINGS ) .
Some patients taking methyldopa experience clinical edema or weight gain which may be controlled by use of a diuretic .
Methyldopa should not be continued if edema progresses or signs of heart failure appear .
Hypertension has recurred occasionally after dialysis in patients given methyldopa because the drug is removed by this procedure .
Rarely involuntary choreoathetotic movements have been observed during therapy with methyldopa in patients with severe bilateral cerebrovascular disease .
Should these movements occur , stop therapy .
Laboratory Tests Blood count , Coombs tests , and liver function tests are recommended before initiating therapy and at periodic intervals ( See WARNINGS ) .
Drug Interactions When methyldopa is used with other antihypertensive drugs , potentiation of antihypertensive effect may occur .
Patients should be followed carefully to detect side reactions or unusual manifestations of drug idiosyncrasy .
Patients may require reduced doses of anesthetics when on methyldopa .
If hypotension does occur during anesthesia , it usually can be controlled by vasopressors .
The adrenergic receptors remain sensitive during treatment with methyldopa .
When methyldopa and lithium are given concomitantly the patient should be carefully monitored for symptoms of lithium toxicity .
Read the circular for lithium preparations .
Several studies demonstrate a decrease in the bioavailability of methyldopa when it is ingested with ferrous sulfate or ferrous gluconate .
This may adversely affect blood pressure control in patients treated with methyldopa .
Coadministration of methyldopa with ferrous sulfate or ferrous gluconate is not recommended .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors : see CONTRAINDICATIONS .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Methyldopa may interfere with measurement of : urinary uric acid by the phosphotungstate method , serum creatinine by the alkaline picrate method , and SGOT by colorimetric methods .
Interference with spectrophotometric methods for SGOT analysis has not been reported .
Since methyldopa causes fluorescence in urine samples at the same wavelengths as catecholamines , falsely high levels of urinary catecholamines may be reported .
This will interfere with the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma .
It is important to recognize this phenomenon before a patient with a possible pheochromocytoma is subjected to surgery .
Methyldopa does not interfere with measurement of VMA ( vanillylmandelic acid ) , a test for pheochromocytoma , by those methods which convert VMA to vanillin .
Methyldopa is not recommended for the treatment of patients with pheochromocytoma .
Rarely , when urine is exposed to air after voiding , it may darken because of breakdown of methyldopa or its metabolites .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of a tumorigenic effect was seen when methyldopa was given for two years to mice at doses up to 1800 mg / kg / day or to rats at doses up to 240 mg / kg / day .
( 30 and 4 times the maximum recommended human dose in mice and rats , respectively , when compared on the basis of body weight ; 2 . 5 and 0 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose in mice and rats , respectively , when compared on the basis of body surface area ; calculations assume a patient weight of 50 kg ) .
Methyldopa was not mutagenic in the Ames Test and did not increase chromosomal aberration or sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
These in vitro studies were carried out both with and without exogenous metabolic activation .
Fertility was unaffected when methyldopa was given to male and female rats at 100 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 7 times the maximum daily human dose when compared on the basis of body weight ; 0 . 2 times the maximum daily human dose when compared on the basis of body surface area ) .
Methyldopa decreased sperm count , sperm motility , the number of late spermatids and the male fertility index when given to male rats at 200 and 400 mg / kg / day .
( 3 . 3 and 6 . 7 times the maximum daily human dose when compared on the basis of body weight ; 0 . 5 and 1 times the maximum daily human dose when compared on the basis of body surface area ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed with methyldopa at oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg in mice , 200 mg / kg in rabbits and 100 mg / kg in rats revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
These doses are 16 . 6 times , 3 . 3 times and 1 . 7 times , respectively , the maximum daily human dose when compared on the basis of body weight ; 1 . 4 times , 1 . 1 times and 0 . 2 times , respectively , when compared on the basis of body surface area ; calculations assume a patient weight of 50 kg .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women in the first trimester of pregnancy .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , methyldopa should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Published reports of the use of methyldopa during all trimesters indicate that if this drug is used during pregnancy the possibility of fetal harm appears remote .
In five studies , three of which were controlled , involving 332 pregnant hypertensive women , treatment with methyldopa was associated with an improved fetal outcome .
The majority of these women were in the third trimester when methyldopa therapy was begun .
In one study , women who had begun methyldopa treatment between weeks 16 and 20 of pregnancy gave birth to infants whose average head circumference was reduced by a small amount ( 34 . 2 ± 1 . 7 cm vs . 34 . 6 ± 1 . 3 cm [ mean ± 1 S . D . ] ) .
Long - term follow up of 195 ( 97 . 5 % ) of the children born to methyldopa - treated pregnant women ( including those who began treatment between weeks 16 and 20 ) failed to uncover any significant adverse effect on the children .
At four years of age , the developmental delay commonly seen in children born to hypertensive mothers was less evident in those whose mothers were treated with methyldopa during pregnancy than those whose mothers were untreated .
The children of the treated group scored consistently higher than the children of the untreated group on five major indices of intellectual and motor development .
At age seven and one - half developmental scores and intelligence indices showed no significant differences in children of treated or untreated hypertensive women .
Nursing Mothers Methyldopa appears in breast milk .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when methyldopa is given to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use There are no well - controlled clinical trials in pediatric patients .
Information on dosing in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from published literature regarding the treatment of hypertension in pediatric patients .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects ( 1685 ) in clinical studies of methyldopa , 223 patients were 65 years of age and over while 33 patients were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sedation , usually transient , may occur during the initial period of therapy or whenever the dose is increased .
Headache , asthenia , or weakness may be noted as early and transient symptoms .
However , significant adverse effects due to methyldopa have been infrequent and this agent usually is well tolerated .
The following adverse reactions have been reported , and within each category , are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Cardiovascular : Aggravation of angina pectoris , congestive heart failure , prolonged carotoid sinus hypersensitivity , orthostatic hypotension ( decrease daily dosage ) , edema or weight gain , bradycardia .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , colitis , vomiting , diarrhea , sialadenitis , sore or “ black ” tongue , nausea , constipation , distention , flatus , dryness of mouth .
Endocrine : Hyperprolactinemia .
Hematologic : Bone marrow depression , leukopenia , granulocytopenia , thrombocytopenia , hemolytic anemia ; positive tests for antinuclear antibody , LE cells , and rheumatoid factor , positive Coombs test .
Hepatic : Liver disorders including hepatitis , jaundice , abnormal liver function tests ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity : Myocarditis , pericarditis , vasculitis , lupus - like syndrome , drug - related fever , eosinophilia .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Parkinsonism , Bell ’ s palsy , decreased mental acuity , involuntary choreoathetotic movements , symptoms of cerebrovascular insufficiency , psychic disturbances including nightmares and reversible mild psychoses or depression , headache , sedation , asthenia or weakness , dizziness , lightheadedness , paresthesias .
Metabolic : Rise in BUN .
Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia , with or without joint swelling ; myalgia .
Respiratory : Nasal stuffiness .
Skin : Toxic epidermal necrolysis , rash .
Urogenital : Amenorrhea , breast enlargement , gynecomastia , lactation , impotence , decreased libido .
OVERDOSAGE Acute overdosage may produce acute hypotension with other responses attributable to brain and gastrointestinal malfunction ( excessive sedation , weakness , bradycardia , dizziness , lightheadedness , constipation , distention , flatus , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting ) .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
When ingestion is recent , gastric lavage or emesis may reduce absorption .
When ingestion has been earlier , infusions may be helpful to promote urinary excretion .
Otherwise , management includes special attention to cardiac rate and output , blood volume , electrolyte imbalance , paralytic ileus , urinary function and cerebral activity .
Sympathomimetic drugs [ e . g . , levarterenol , epinephrine , metaraminol bitartrate ] may be indicated .
Methyldopa is dialyzable .
The oral LD50 of methyldopa is greater than 1 . 5 g / kg in both the mouse and the rat .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS Initiation of Therapy The usual starting dosage of methyldopa is 250 mg two or three times a day in the first 48 hours .
The daily dosage then may be increased or decreased , preferably at intervals of not less than two days , until an adequate response is achieved .
To minimize the sedation , start dosage increases in the evening .
By adjustment of dosage , morning hypotension may be prevented without sacrificing control of afternoon blood pressure .
When methyldopa is given to patients on other antihypertensives , the dose of these agents may need to be adjusted to effect a smooth transition .
When methyldopa is given with antihypertensives other than thiazides , the initial dosage of methyldopa should be limited to 500 mg daily in divided doses ; when methyldopa is added to a thiazide , the dosage of thiazide need not be changed .
Maintenance Therapy The usual daily dosage of methyldopa is 500 mg to 2 g in two to four doses .
Although occasional patients have responded to higher doses , the maximum recommended daily dosage is 3 g .
Once an effective dosage range is attained , a smooth blood pressure response occurs in most patients in 12 to 24 hours .
Since methyldopa has a relatively short duration of action , withdrawal is followed by return of hypertension usually within 48 hours .
This is not complicated by an overshoot of blood pressure .
Occasionally tolerance may occur , usually between the second and third month of therapy .
Adding a diuretic or increasing the dosage of methyldopa frequently will restore effective control of blood pressure .
A thiazide may be added at any time during methyldopa therapy and is recommended if therapy has not been started with a thiazide or if effective control of blood pressure cannot be maintained on 2 g of methyldopa daily .
Methyldopa is largely excreted by the kidney and patients with impaired renal function may respond to smaller doses .
Syncope in older patients may be related to an increased sensitivity and advanced arteriosclerotic vascular disease .
This may be avoided by lower doses .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Initial dosage is based on 10 mg / kg of body weight daily in two to four doses .
The daily dosage then is increased or decreased until an adequate response is achieved .
The maximum dosage is 65 mg / kg or 3 g daily , whichever is less .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use . )
HOW SUPPLIED Methyldopa tablets USP are available as round , white , film - coated tablets , debossed Z2931 , containing 250 mg of methyldopa USP , packaged in bottles of 60 ( NDC 21695 - 879 - 60 ) and 90 tablets ( NDC 21695 - 879 - 90 ) and as round , white , film - coated tablets , debossed Z2932 , containing 500 mg of methyldopa USP , packaged in bottles of 60 ( NDC 21695 - 880 - 60 ) .
PHARMACIST : Dispense in a well - closed container as defined in the USP .
Use child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : IVAX PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
Miami , FL 33137 Manufactured for : TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS , USA Sellersville , PA 18960 0172 08 / 06 B17 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Prindipal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
