1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Beleodaq is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T - cell lymphoma ( PTCL ) .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and duration of response [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
An improvement in survival or disease - related symptoms has not been established .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trial .
Beleodaq is a histone deacetylase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T - cell lymphoma ( PTCL ) .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and duration of response .
An improvement in survival or disease - related symptoms has not been established .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trial .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage of Beleodaq is 1 , 000 mg / m2 administered over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion once daily on days 1 - 5 of a 21 - day cycle .
Cycles can be repeated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
( 2 . 1 ) • Treatment discontinuation or interruption with or without dosage reductions by 25 % may be needed to manage adverse reactions ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information The recommended dosage of Beleodaq is 1 , 000 mg / m2 administered over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion once daily on Days 1 - 5 of a 21 - day cycle .
Cycles can be repeated every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
2 . 2 Dosage Modification for Hematologic and Non - Hematologic Toxicities Table 1 displays the recommended Beleodaq dosage modifications for hematologic and non - hematologic toxicities .
Base dosage adjustments for thrombocytopenia and neutropenia on platelet and absolute neutrophil nadir ( lowest value ) counts in the preceding cycle of therapy .
• • Absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) should be greater than or equal to 1 . 0 x 109 / L and the platelet count should be greater than or equal to 50 x 109 / L prior to the start of each cycle and prior to resuming treatment following toxicity .
Resume subsequent treatment with Beleodaq according to the guidelines described in Table 1 below .
Discontinue Beleodaq in patients who have recurrent ANC nadirs less than 0 . 5 x 109 / L and / or recurrent platelet count nadirs less than 25 x 109 / L after two dosage reductions .
• • Other toxicities must be NCI - CTCAE Grade 2 or less prior to re - treatment .
Monitor complete blood counts at baseline and weekly .
Perform serum chemistry tests , including renal and hepatic functions prior to the start of the first dose of each cycle .
Table 1 : Dosage Modifications for Hematologic and Non - Hematologic Toxicities Dosage Modification Dosage Modifications due to Hematologic Toxicities Platelet count ≥ 25 x 109 / L and nadir ANC ≥ 0 . 5 x 109 / L No Change Nadir ANC < 0 . 5 x 109 / L ( any platelet count ) Decrease dosage by 25 % ( 750 mg / m2 ) Platelet count < 25 x 109 / L ( any nadir ANC ) Dosage Modifications due to Non - Hematologic Toxicities Any CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction [ 1 ] Decrease dosage by 25 % ( 750 mg / m2 ) Recurrence of CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction after two dosage reductions Discontinue Beleodaq [ 1 ] For nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea , only dose modify if the duration is greater than 7 days with supportive management 2 . 3 Patients with Reduced UGT1A1 Activity Reduce the starting dose of Beleodaq to 750 mg / m2 in patients known to be homozygous for the UGT1A1 * 28 allele [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration Precautions As with other potentially cytotoxic anticancer agents , exercise care in the handling and preparation of solutions prepared with Beleodaq .
2 . 5 Reconstitution and Infusion Instructions a ) Aseptically reconstitute each vial of Beleodaq by adding 9 mL of Sterile Water for injection , USP , into the Beleodaq vial with a suitable syringe to achieve a concentration of 50 mg of belinostat per mL .
Swirl the contents of the vial until there are no visible particles in the resulting solution .
The reconstituted product may be stored for up to 12 hours at ambient temperature ( 15 - 25 ° C ; 59 - 77 ° F ) .
b ) Aseptically withdraw the volume needed for the required dosage ( based on the 50 mg / mL concentration and the patient ’ s BSA [ m2 ] ) and transfer to an infusion bag containing 250 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride injection .
The infusion bag with drug solution may be stored at ambient room temperature ( 15 - 25 ° C ; 59 - 77 ° F ) for up to 36 hours including infusion time .
c ) Visually inspect the solution for particulate matter .
Do not use if cloudiness or particulates are observed .
d ) Connect the infusion bag containing drug solution to an infusion set with a 0 . 22 µm in - line filter for administration .
e ) Infuse intravenously over 30 minutes .
If infusion site pain or other symptoms potentially attributable to the infusion occur , the infusion time may be extended to 45 minutes .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 500 mg , lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution For injection : 500 mg , lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hematologic Toxicity : Thrombocytopenia , leukopenia ( neutropenia and lymphopenia ) , and anemia : Monitor blood counts and modify dosage for hematologic toxicities .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • Infection : Serious and fatal infections ( e . g . , pneumonia and sepsis ) ( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Beleodaq may cause hepatic toxicity and liver function test abnormalities .
Monitor liver function tests and omit or modify dosage for hepatic toxicities .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Tumor lysis syndrome : Monitor patients with advanced stage disease and / or high tumor burden and take appropriate precautions ( 5 . 4 ) • Gastrointestinal Toxicity : Nausea , vomiting and diarrhea occur with Beleodaq and may require antiemetic and antidiarrheal medications ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hematologic Toxicity Beleodaq can cause thrombocytopenia , leukopenia ( neutropenia and lymphopenia ) , and / or anemia ; monitor blood counts weekly during treatment , and modify dosage as necessary [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Infections Serious and sometimes fatal infections , including pneumonia and sepsis , have occurred with Beleodaq .
Do not administer Beleodaq to patients with an active infection .
Patients with a history of extensive or intensive chemotherapy may be at higher risk of life threatening infections [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity Beleodaq can cause fatal hepatotoxicity and liver function test abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor liver function tests before treatment and before the start of each cycle .
Interrupt or adjust dosage until recovery , or permanently discontinue Beleodaq based on the severity of the hepatic toxicity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome Tumor lysis syndrome has occurred in Beleodaq - treated patients in the clinical trial of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL [ seeClinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Monitor patients with advanced stage disease and / or high tumor burden and take appropriate precautions [ seeAdverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 5 Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea , vomiting and diarrhea occur with Beleodaq [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] and may require the use of antiemetic and antidiarrheal medications .
5 . 6 Embryo - fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action and findings of genotoxicity , Beleodaq can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Advise pregnant women of the risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use an effective method of contraception during treatment with Beleodaq and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Beleodaq and for 3 months after the last dose .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the prescribing information .
• • Hematologic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Tumor Lysis Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Gastrointestinal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 25 % ) are nausea , fatigue , pyrexia , anemia , and vomiting .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Acrotech Biopharma Inc at 1 - 888 - 292 - 9617 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of Beleodaq may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions in Patients with Peripheral T - Cell Lymphoma The safety of Beleodaq was evaluated in 129 patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL in the single arm clinical trial in which patients were administered Beleodaq at a dosage of 1 , 000 mg / m2 administered over 30 minutes by IV infusion once daily on Days 1 - 5 of a 21 - day cycle [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The median duration of treatment was 2 cycles ( range 1 – 33 cycles ) .
The most common adverse reactions observed in the trial of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL treated with Beleodaq were nausea , fatigue , pyrexia , anemia , and vomiting [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions regardless of causality from the trial in patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 10 % of Patients with Relapsed or Refractory PTCL ( NCI - CTC Grade 1 - 4 ) Adverse Reactions Percentage of Patients ( % ) ( N = 129 ) All Grades Grade 3 or 4 All Adverse Reactions 97 61 Nausea 42 1 Fatigue 37 5 Pyrexia 35 2 Anemia 32 11 Vomiting 29 1 Constipation 23 1 Diarrhea 23 2 Dyspnea 22 6 Rash 20 1 Peripheral Edema 20 0 Cough 19 0 Thrombocytopenia 16 7 Pruritus 16 3 Chills 16 1 Increased Blood Lactate Dehydrogenase 16 2 Decreased Appetite 15 2 Headache 15 0 Infusion Site Pain 14 0 Hypokalemia 12 4 Prolonged QT 11 4 Abdominal pain 11 1 Hypotension 10 3 Phlebitis 10 1 Dizziness 10 0 Note : Adverse reactions are listed by order of incidence in the “ All Grades ” category first , then by incidence in “ the Grade 3 or 4 ” category ; Measured by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( NCI - CTCAE ) version 3 . 0 Serious Adverse Reactions Sixty - one patients ( 47 . 3 % ) experienced serious adverse reactions while taking Beleodaq or within 30 days after their last dose of Beleodaq .
The most common serious adverse reactions ( > 2 % ) were pneumonia , pyrexia , infection , anemia , increased creatinine , thrombocytopenia , and multi - organ failure .
One treatment - related death associated with hepatic failure was reported in the trial .
One patient with baseline hyperuricemia and bulky disease experienced Grade 4 tumor lysis syndrome during the first cycle of treatment and died due to multi - organ failure .
A treatment - related death from ventricular fibrillation was reported in another monotherapy clinical trial with Beleodaq .
ECG analysis did not identify QTc prolongation .
Discontinuations due to Adverse Reactions Twenty - five patients ( 19 . 4 % ) discontinued treatment with Beleodaq due to adverse reactions .
The adverse reactions reported most frequently as the reason for discontinuation of treatment included anemia , febrile neutropenia , fatigue , and multi - organ failure .
Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions In the trial , dosage adjustments due to adverse reactions occurred in 12 % of Beleodaq - treated patients .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 UGT1A1 Inhibitors Belinostat is primarily metabolized by UGT1A1 .
Avoid concomitant administration of Beleodaq with strong inhibitors of UGT1A1 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advised not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , Beleodaq can cause teratogenicity and / or embryo - fetal lethality because it is genotoxic and targets actively dividing cells [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on Beleodaq use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
No animal reproduction studies were conducted with Beleodaq .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population ( s ) is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of belinostat in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Beleodaq , and for 2 weeks after the last dose 8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating Beleodaq .
Contraception Females Beleodaq can cause embryo - fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Beleodaq and for 6 months after the last dose .
Males Based on genotoxicity findings , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Beleodaq and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Males Based on findings from animal studies , Beleodaq may impair male fertility .
The reversibility of the effect on fertility is unknown [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Beleodaq in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Belinostat is metabolized in the liver and hepatic impairment is expected to increase exposure to belinostat .
Patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 x upper limit of normal ( ULN ) ) were excluded from clinical trials .
There is insufficient data to recommend a dose of Beleodaq in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the single - arm trial , 48 % of patients ( n = 62 ) were ≥ 65 years of age and 10 % of patients ( n = 13 ) were ≥ 75 years of age [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The median age of the trial population was 63 years .
Patients ≥ 65 years of age had a higher response rate to Beleodaq treatment than patients < 65 years of age ( 36 % versus 16 % ) while no meaningful differences in response rate were observed between patients ≥ 75 years of age and those < 75 years of age .
No clinically meaningful differences in serious adverse reactions were observed in patients based on age ( < 65 years compared with ≥ 65 years or < 75 years of age compared with ≥ 75 years of age ) .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Belinostat exposure is not altered in patients with Creatinine Clearance ( CLcr ) > 39 mL / min .
There is insufficient data to recommend a dose of Beleodaq in patients with CLcr ≤ 39 mL / min .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage of Beleodaq .
There is no antidote for Beleodaq and it is not known if Beleodaq is dialyzable .
If an overdose occurs , general supportive measures should be instituted as deemed necessary by the treating physician .
The elimination half - life of belinostat is 1 . 1 hours [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Beleodaq is a histone deacetylase inhibitor with a sulfonamide - hydroxamide structure .
The chemical name of belinostat is ( 2 E ) - N - hydroxy - 3 - [ 3 - ( phenylsulfamoyl ) phenyl ] prop - 2 - enamide .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C15H14N2O4S and the molecular weight is 318 . 35 g / mol .
Belinostat is a white to off - white powder .
It is slightly soluble in distilled water ( 0 . 14 mg / mL ) and polyethylene glycol 400 ( about 1 . 5 mg / mL ) , and is freely soluble in ethanol ( > 200 mg / mL ) .
The pKa values are 7 . 87 and 8 . 71 by potentiometry and 7 . 86 and 8 . 59 by UV .
Beleodaq ( belinostat ) for injection is supplied as a sterile lyophilized yellow powder containing 500 mg belinostat as the active ingredient .
Each vial also contains 1000 mg L - Arginine , USP as an inactive ingredient .
The drug product is supplied in a single - dose clear glass vial with a coated stopper and aluminum crimp seal with “ flip - off ” cap .
Beleodaq is intended for intravenous administration after reconstitution with 9 mL Sterile Water for injection , and the reconstituted solution is further diluted with 250 mL of sterile 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride injection prior to infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Beleodaq is a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor .
HDACs catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from the lysine residues of histones and some non - histone proteins .
In vitro , belinostat caused the accumulation of acetylated histones and other proteins , inducing cell cycle arrest and / or apoptosis of some transformed cells .
Belinostat shows preferential cytotoxicity towards tumor cells compared to normal cells .
Belinostat inhibited the enzymatic activity of histone deacetylases at nanomolar concentrations ( < 250 nM ) .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology Multiple clinical trials have been conducted with Beleodaq , in many of which ECG data were collected and analyzed by a central laboratory .
Analysis of clinical ECG and belinostat plasma concentration data demonstrated no meaningful effect of Beleodaq on cardiac repolarization .
None of the trials showed any clinically relevant changes caused by Beleodaq on heart rate , PR duration or QRS duration as measures of autonomic state , atrio - ventricular conduction or depolarization ; there were no cases of Torsades de Pointes .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic characteristics of belinostat were analyzed from pooled data from phase 1 / 2 clinical studies that used doses of belinostat ranging from 150 to 1200 mg / m2 .
The total mean plasma clearance and elimination half - life were 1240 mL / min and 1 . 1 hours , respectively .
The total clearance approximates average hepatic blood flow ( 1500 mL / min ) , suggesting high hepatic extraction ( clearance being flow dependent ) .
Distribution The mean belinostat volume of distribution approaches total body water , indicating that belinostat has limited body tissue distribution .
In vitro plasma studies have shown that between 92 . 9 % and 95 . 8 % of belinostat is bound to protein in an equilibrium dialysis assay , and was independent of belinostat plasma concentrations from 500 to 25 , 000 ng / mL .
Elimination Metabolism Belinostat is primarily metabolized by hepatic UGT1A1 .
Strong UGT1A1 inhibitors are expected to increase exposure to belinostat .
Belinostat also undergoes hepatic metabolism by CYP2A6 , CYP2C9 , and CYP3A4 enzymes to form belinostat amide and belinostat acid .
The enzymes responsible for the formation of methyl belinostat and 3 - ( anilinosulfonyl ) - benzenecarboxylic acid , ( 3 - ASBA ) are not known .
Excretion Following a single dose of [ 14 C ] - labelled belinostat ( 100 μCi , 1500 mg ) administered as a 30 - minute intravenous infusion in patients with recurrent or progressive malignancy ( N = 6 ) , fecal excretion accounted for a mean ( ± SD ) of 9 . 7 % ( ± 6 . 5 % ) of the administered radioactive belinostat dose over 168 hours .
The mean ( ± SD ) of the administered radioactive belinostat dose that was excreted in urine over 168 hours was 84 . 8 % ( ± 9 . 8 % ) , of which unchanged belinostat accounted for only 1 . 7 % .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies showed belinostat and its metabolites ( including belinostat glucuronide , belinostat amide , methyl belinostat ) inhibited metabolic activities of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 .
Other metabolites ( 3 - ASBA and belinostat acid ) inhibited CYP2C8 .
In cancer patients , co - administration of Beleodaq ( 1 , 000 mg / m2 ) and warfarin ( 5 mg ) , a known CYP2C9 substrate , did not increase the AUC or Cmax of either R - or S - warfarin .
Belinostat is likely a glycoprotein ( P - gp ) substrate but is unlikely to inhibit P - gp .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics UGT1A1 activity is reduced in individuals with genetic polymorphisms that lead to reduced enzyme activity such as the UGT1A1 * 28 polymorphism .
Approximately 20 % of the black population , 10 % of the white population , and 2 % of the Asian population are homozygous for the UGT1A1 * 28 allele .
Additional reduced function alleles may be more prevalent in specific populations .
Because belinostat is primarily ( 80 - 90 % ) metabolized by UGT1A1 , the clearance of belinostat could be decreased in patients with reduced UGT1A1 activity ( e . g . , patients with UGT1A1 * 28 allele ) .
Reduce the starting dose of Beleodaq to 750 mg / m2 in patients known to be homozygous for the UGT1A1 * 28 allele to minimize dose limiting toxicities .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with belinostat .
Belinostat was genotoxic in a bacterial reverse mutation test ( Ames assay ) , an in vitro mouse lymphoma cell mutagenesis assay , and an in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Beleodaq may impair male fertility .
Fertility studies using belinostat were not conducted .
However , belinostat effects on male reproductive organs observed during the 24 - week repeat - dose dog toxicology study included reduced organ weights of the testes / epididymides that correlated with a delay in testicular maturation .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T - cell Lymphoma ( PTCL ) In an open - label , single - arm , non - randomized international trial conducted at 62 centers , 129 patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL were treated with Beleodaq 1 , 000 mg / m2 administered over 30 minutes via IV infusion once daily on Days 1 - 5 of a 21 - day cycle .
There were 120 patients who had histologically confirmed PTCL by central review evaluable for efficacy .
Patients were treated with repeat cycles every three weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Efficacy was evaluated using response rate ( complete response and partial response ) as assessed by an independent review committee ( IRC ) using the International Workshop Criteria ( IWC ) ( Cheson 2007 ) .
Response assessments were evaluated every 6 weeks for the first 12 months and then every 12 weeks until 2 years from the start of study treatment .
Duration of response was measured from the first day of documented response to disease progression or death .
Response and progression of disease were evaluated by the IRC using the IWC .
Table 3 summarizes the baseline demographic and disease characteristics of the study population , who were evaluable for efficacy .
Table 3 Baseline Patient Characteristics ( PTCL Population ) Characteristics Evaluable Patients ( N = 120 ) Age ( years ) Median ( range ) 64 ( 29 - 81 ) Sex , % Male Female 52 48 Race , % White Black Asian Latin Other 88 6 3 3 2 PTCL Subtype Based on Central Diagnosis , % PTCL Unspecified ( NOS ) Angioimmunoblastic T - cell lymphoma ( AITL ) ALK - 1 negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma ( ALCL ) Other 64 18 11 7 Baseline Platelet Count , % ≥ 100 , 000 / μL < 100 , 000 / μL 83 17 ECOG Performance Status , % 0 1 2 3 34 43 22 1 Median time ( months ) from Initial PTCL Diagnosis ( Range ) 12 ( 2 . 6 – 266 . 4 ) Median Number of Prior Systemic Therapies ( Range ) 2 ( 1 - 8 ) In all evaluable patients ( N = 120 ) treated with Beleodaq , the overall response rate per central review using IWC was 25 . 8 % ( n = 31 ) ( Table 4 ) with rates of 23 . 4 % for PTCL , NOS and 45 . 5 % for AITL , the two largest subtypes enrolled .
Table 4 : Response Analysis per Central Assessment Using IWC in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory PTCL Evaluable Patients ( N = 120 ) Response Rate n ( % ) ( 95 % CI ) • CR + PR 31 ( 25 . 8 ) 18 . 3 - 34 . 6 • CR 13 ( 10 . 8 ) 5 . 9 - 17 . 8 • PR 18 ( 15 . 0 ) 9 . 1 – 22 . 7 CI = confidence interval , CR = complete response , PR = partial response The median duration of response based on the first date of response to disease progression or death was 8 . 4 months ( 95 % CI : 4 . 5 – 29 . 4 ) .
Of the responders , the median time to response was 5 . 6 weeks ( range 4 . 3 - 50 . 4 weeks ) .
Nine patients ( 7 . 5 % ) were able to proceed to a stem cell transplant after treatment with Beleodaq .
15 REFERENCES 1 OSHA Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Beleodaq ( belinostat ) for injection is supplied in single vial cartons ; each clear vial contains sterile , lyophilized powder equivalent to 500 mg belinostat .
NDC 72893 - 002 - 01 : Individual carton of Beleodaq single - dose vial containing 500 mg belinostat .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store Beleodaq ( belinostat ) for injection at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions are permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Retain in original package until use .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Beleodaq is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow special handling and disposal procedures [ see References ( 15 ) 1 ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Physicians should discuss the FDA approved Patient Information Leaflet with patients prior to treatment with Beleodaq .
Instruct patients to read the Patient Information Leaflet carefully .
Advise the patient or the caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Advise patients or their caregivers : • To report symptoms of nausea , vomiting and diarrhea so that appropriate antiemetic and antidiarrheal medications can be administered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• To report any symptoms of thrombocytopenia , leukopenia ( neutropenia and lymphopenia ) , and anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• To immediately report symptoms of infection ( e . g . , pyrexia ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Of the potential risk to the fetus and for women to avoid pregnancy and use effective contraception while receiving Beleodaq and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with Beleodaq and for 3 months after the last dose .
• To avoid breastfeeding while receiving Beleodaq and for 2 weeks after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• To understand the importance of monitoring liver function test abnormalities and to immediately report potential symptoms of liver injury [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Acrotech Biopharma Inc East Windsor , NJ 08520 Beleodaq is a registered trademark of Acrotech Biopharma Inc .
All rights are reserved .
U . S . Patent : 6 , 888 , 027 SPL PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT SECTION PATIENT INFORMATION BELEODAQ ® ( Bē - lēo - dak ) ( belinostat ) for injection , for intravenous use Read this Patient Information before you receive treatment with Beleodaq and each time you receive Beleodaq .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Beleodaq ?
Beleodaq is a prescription medicine used to treat people with a type of cancer called peripheral T - cell Lymphoma ( PTCL ) that comes back or does not respond to cancer treatment .
It is not known if Beleodaq is safe and effective in children .
What should I tell my doctor before receiving Beleodaq ?
Before receiving Beleodaq , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have an infection • have had chemotherapy treatment • have liver or kidney problems • have nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Beleodaq can harm your unborn baby .
You should not become pregnant while receiving Beleodaq .
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while receiving Beleodaq .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Beleodaq passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will receive Beleodaq or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive Beleodaq ?
• Beleodaq will be given to you by intravenous ( IV ) injection into your vein , usually over 30 minutes .
• Beleodaq is given one time a day on Days 1 through 5 of a 21 - day cycle of treatment .
• You should have regular blood tests before and during your treatment with Beleodaq .
• Your doctor may change your dose of Beleodaq , change when you receive your treatment , or stop treatment if you have certain side effects while receiving Beleodaq .
What are the possible side effects of Beleodaq ?
Beleodaq may cause serious side effects , including : • Low blood cell counts .
Your doctor will do blood tests to check your blood counts during your treatment with Beleodaq .
o Low platelet counts can cause unusual bleeding or bruising under your skin .
o Low red blood cell counts may make you feel weak , tired , or you get tired easily , you look pale , or you feel short of breath .
o Low white blood cell counts can cause you to get infections , which may be serious .
• Serious infections .
People receiving Beleodaq may develop serious infections that can sometimes lead to death .
You may have a greater risk of life - threatening infections if you have had chemotherapy in the past .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms of an infection : fever , flu - like symptoms , cough , shortness of breath , burning with urination muscle aches , or worsening skin problems .
• Liver problems .
Beleodaq may cause liver problems which can lead to death .
Your doctor will do blood tests during your treatment with Beleodaq to check for liver problems .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of the following signs or symptoms of liver problems : yellowing of the skin or the white part of your eyes ( jaundice ) , dark urine , itching , or pain in the right upper stomach area .
• Tumor Lysis Syndrome ( TLS ) .
TLS is caused by a fast breakdown of cancer cells .
Your doctor will check you for TLS during treatment with Beleodaq .
• Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea are common with Beleodaq and can sometimes be serious .
Tell your doctor if you develop nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
Your doctor may prescribe medicines to help prevent or treat these side effects .
Common side effects of Beleodaq include fatigue , fever , and low red blood cell count .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Beleodaq .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You can report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about Beleodaq Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Beleodaq that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Beleodaq ?
Active ingredient : belinostat Inactive ingredients : L - Arginine Manufactured for : Acrotech Biopharma Inc , East Windsor , NJ 08520 Beleodaq is a registered trademark of Acrotech Biopharma Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . Beleodaq . com or call 1 - 888 - 292 - 9617 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : Dec 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label NDC 72893 - 002 - 01 Beleodaq ® ( belinostat ) for injection 500 mg / vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vial Label NDC 72893 - 002 - 01 Beleodaq ® ( belinostat ) for injection 500 mg / vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
