DESCRIPTION DEMADEX ® ( torsemide ) is a diuretic of the pyridine - sulfonylurea class .
Its chemical name is 1 - isopropyl - 3 - [ ( 4 - m - toluidino - 3 - pyridyl ) sulfonyl ] urea and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C16H20N4O3S , its pKa is 7 . 1 , and its molecular weight is 348 . 43 .
Torsemide is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
The tablets for oral administration also contain lactose NF , crospovidone NF , povidone USP , microcrystalline cellulose NF , and magnesium stearate NF .
Torsemide ampuls for intravenous injection contain a sterile solution of torsemide ( 10 mg / mL ) , polyethylene glycol - 400 NF , tromethamine USP , and sodium hydroxide NF ( as needed to adjust pH ) in water for injection USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Micropuncture studies in animals have shown that torsemide acts from within the lumen of the thick ascending portion of the loop of Henle , where it inhibits the Na + / K + / 2 CI – - carrier system .
Clinical pharmacology studies have confirmed this site of action in humans , and effects in other segments of the nephron have not been demonstrated .
Diuretic activity thus correlates better with the rate of drug excretion in the urine than with the concentration in the blood .
Torsemide increases the urinary excretion of sodium , chloride , and water , but it does not significantly alter glomerular filtration rate , renal plasma flow , or acid - base balance .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism The bioavailability of DEMADEX tablets is approximately 80 % , with little intersubject variation ; the 90 % confidence interval is 75 % to 89 % .
The drug is absorbed with little first - pass metabolism , and the serum concentration reaches its peak ( Cmax ) within 1 hour after oral administration .
Cmax and area under the serum concentration - time curve ( AUC ) after oral administration are proportional to dose over the range of 2 . 5 mg to 200 mg .
Simultaneous food intake delays the time to Cmax by about 30 minutes , but overall bioavailability ( AUC ) and diuretic activity are unchanged .
Absorption is essentially unaffected by renal or hepatic dysfunction .
The volume of distribution of torsemide is 12 liters to 15 liters in normal adults or in patients with mild to moderate renal failure or congestive heart failure .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution is approximately doubled .
In normal subjects the elimination half - life of torsemide is approximately 3 . 5 hours .
Torsemide is cleared from the circulation by both hepatic metabolism ( approximately 80 % of total clearance ) and excretion into the urine ( approximately 20 % of total clearance in patients with normal renal function ) .
The major metabolite in humans is the carboxylic acid derivative , which is biologically inactive .
Two of the lesser metabolites possess some diuretic activity , but for practical purposes metabolism terminates the action of the drug .
Because torsemide is extensively bound to plasma protein ( > 99 % ) , very little enters tubular urine via glomerular filtration .
Most renal clearance of torsemide occurs via active secretion of the drug by the proximal tubules into tubular urine .
In patients with decompensated congestive heart failure , hepatic and renal clearance are both reduced , probably because of hepatic congestion and decreased renal plasma flow , respectively .
The total clearance of torsemide is approximately 50 % of that seen in healthy volunteers , and the plasma half - life and AUC are correspondingly increased .
Because of reduced renal clearance , a smaller fraction of any given dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , so at any given dose there is less natriuresis in patients with congestive heart failure than in normal subjects .
In patients with renal failure , renal clearance of torsemide is markedly decreased but total plasma clearance is not significantly altered .
A smaller fraction of the administered dose is delivered to the intraluminal site of action , and the natriuretic action of any given dose of diuretic is reduced .
A diuretic response in renal failure may still be achieved if patients are given higher doses .
The total plasma clearance and elimination half - life of torsemide remain normal under the conditions of impaired renal function because metabolic elimination by the liver remains intact .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the volume of distribution , plasma half - life , and renal clearance are all increased , but total clearance is unchanged .
The pharmacokinetic profile of torsemide in healthy elderly subjects is similar to that in young subjects except for a decrease in renal clearance related to the decline in renal function that commonly occurs with aging .
However , total plasma clearance and elimination half - life remain unchanged .
Clinical Effects The diuretic effects of DEMADEX begin within 10 minutes of intravenous dosing and peak within the first hour .
With oral dosing , the onset of diuresis occurs within 1 hour and the peak effect occurs during the first or second hour .
Independent of the route of administration , diuresis lasts about 6 to 8 hours .
In healthy subjects given single doses , the dose - response relationship for sodium excretion is linear over the dose range of 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg .
The increase in potassium excretion is negligible after a single dose of up to 10 mg and only slight ( 5 mEq to 15 mEq ) after a single dose of 20 mg .
Congestive Heart Failure DEMADEX has been studied in controlled trials in patients with New York Heart Association Class II to Class IV congestive heart failure .
Patients who received 10 mg to 20 mg of daily DEMADEX in these studies achieved significantly greater reductions in weight and edema than did patients who received placebo .
Nonanuric Renal Failure In single - dose studies in patients with nonanuric renal failure , high doses of DEMADEX ( 20 mg to 200 mg ) caused marked increases in water and sodium excretion .
In patients with nonanuric renal failure , severe enough to require hemodialysis , chronic treatment with up to 200 mg of daily DEMADEX has not been shown to change steady - state fluid retention .
When patients in a study of acute renal failure received total daily doses of 520 mg to 1200 mg of DEMADEX , 19 % experienced seizures .
Ninety - six patients were treated in this study ; 6 / 32 treated with torsemide experienced seizures , 6 / 32 treated with comparably high doses of furosemide experienced seizures , and 1 / 32 treated with placebo experienced a seizure .
Hepatic Cirrhosis When given with aldosterone antagonists , DEMADEX also caused increases in sodium and fluid excretion in patients with edema or ascites due to hepatic cirrhosis .
Urinary sodium excretion rate relative to the urinary excretion rate of DEMADEX is less in cirrhotic patients than in healthy subjects ( possibly because of the hyperaldosteronism and resultant sodium retention that are characteristic of portal hypertension and ascites ) .
However , because of the increased renal clearance of DEMADEX in patients with hepatic cirrhosis , these factors tend to balance each other , and the result is an overall natriuretic response that is similar to that seen in healthy subjects .
Chronic use of any diuretic in hepatic disease has not been studied in adequate and well - controlled trials .
Essential Hypertension In patients with essential hypertension , DEMADEX has been shown in controlled studies to lower blood pressure when administered once a day at doses of 5 mg to 10 mg .
The antihypertensive effect is near maximal after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment , but it may continue to increase for up to 12 weeks .
Systolic and diastolic supine and standing blood pressures are all reduced .
There is no significant orthostatic effect , and there is only a minimal peak - trough difference in blood pressure reduction .
The antihypertensive effects of DEMADEX are , like those of other diuretics , on the average greater in black patients ( a low - renin population ) than in nonblack patients .
When DEMADEX is first administered , daily urinary sodium excretion increases for at least a week .
With chronic administration , however , daily sodium loss comes into balance with dietary sodium intake .
If the administration of DEMADEX is suddenly stopped , blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels over several days , without overshoot .
DEMADEX has been administered together with β - adrenergic blocking agents , ACE inhibitors , and calcium - channel blockers .
Adverse drug interactions have not been observed , and special dosage adjustment has not been necessary .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE DEMADEX is indicated for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure , renal disease , or hepatic disease .
Use of torsemide has been found to be effective for the treatment of edema associated with chronic renal failure .
Chronic use of any diuretic in hepatic disease has not been studied in adequate and well - controlled trials .
DEMADEX intravenous injection is indicated when a rapid onset of diuresis is desired or when oral administration is impractical .
DEMADEX is indicated for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS DEMADEX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to DEMADEX or to sulfonylureas .
DEMADEX is contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
WARNINGS Hepatic Disease With Cirrhosis and Ascites DEMADEX should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease with cirrhosis and ascites , since sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
In these patients , diuresis with DEMADEX ( or any other diuretic ) is best initiated in the hospital .
To prevent hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis , an aldosterone antagonist or potassium - sparing drug should be used concomitantly with DEMADEX .
Ototoxicity Tinnitus and hearing loss ( usually reversible ) have been observed after rapid intravenous injection of other loop diuretics and have also been observed after oral DEMADEX .
It is not certain that these events were attributable to DEMADEX .
Ototoxicity has also been seen in animal studies when very high plasma levels of torsemide were induced .
Administered intravenously , DEMADEX should be injected slowly over 2 minutes , and single doses should not exceed 200 mg .
Volume and Electrolyte Depletion Patients receiving diuretics should be observed for clinical evidence of electrolyte imbalance , hypovolemia , or prerenal azotemia .
Symptoms of these disturbances may include one or more of the following : dryness of the mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , nausea , and vomiting .
Excessive diuresis may cause dehydration , blood - volume reduction , and possibly thrombosis and embolism , especially in elderly patients .
In patients who develop fluid and electrolyte imbalances , hypovolemia , or prerenal azotemia , the observed laboratory changes may include hyper - or hyponatremia , hyper - or hypochloremia , hyper - or hypokalemia , acid - base abnormalities , and increased blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) .
If any of these occur , DEMADEX should be discontinued until the situation is corrected ; DEMADEX may be restarted at a lower dose .
In controlled studies in the United States , DEMADEX was administered to hypertensive patients at doses of 5 mg or 10 mg daily .
After 6 weeks at these doses , the mean decrease in serum potassium was approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L .
The percentage of patients who had a serum potassium level below 3 . 5 mEq / L at any time during the studies was essentially the same in patients who received DEMADEX ( 1 . 5 % ) as in those who received placebo ( 3 % ) .
In patients followed for 1 year , there was no further change in mean serum potassium levels .
In patients with congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , or renal disease treated with DEMADEX at doses higher than those studied in United States antihypertensive trials , hypokalemia was observed with greater frequency , in a dose - related manner .
In patients with cardiovascular disease , especially those receiving digitalis glycosides , diuretic - induced hypokalemia may be a risk factor for the development of arrhythmias .
The risk of hypokalemia is greatest in patients with cirrhosis of the liver , in patients experiencing a brisk diuresis , in patients who are receiving inadequate oral intake of electrolytes , and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or ACTH .
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium and other electrolytes is advised in patients treated with DEMADEX .
PRECAUTIONS Laboratory Values Potassium See WARNINGS .
Calcium Single doses of DEMADEX increased the urinary excretion of calcium by normal subjects , but serum calcium levels were slightly increased in 4 - to 6 - week hypertension trials .
In a long - term study of patients with congestive heart failure , the average 1 - year change in serum calcium was a decrease of 0 . 10 mg / dL ( 0 . 02 mmol / L ) .
Among 426 patients treated with DEMADEX for an average of 11 months , hypocalcemia was not reported as an adverse event .
Magnesium Single doses of DEMADEX caused healthy volunteers to increase their urinary excretion of magnesium , but serum magnesium levels were slightly increased in 4 - to 6 - week hypertension trials .
In long - term hypertension studies , the average 1 - year change in serum magnesium was an increase of 0 . 03 mg / dL ( 0 . 01 mmol / L ) .
Among 426 patients treated with DEMADEX for an average of 11 months , one case of hypomagnesemia ( 1 . 3 mg / dL [ 0 . 53 mmol / L ] ) was reported as an adverse event .
In a long - term clinical study of DEMADEX in patients with congestive heart failure , the estimated annual change in serum magnesium was an increase of 0 . 2 mg / dL ( 0 . 08 mmol / L ) , but these data are confounded by the fact that many of these patients received magnesium supplements .
In a 4 - week study in which magnesium supplementation was not given , the rate of occurrence of serum magnesium levels below 1 . 7 mg / dL ( 0 . 70 mmol / L ) was 6 % and 9 % in the groups receiving 5 mg and 10 mg of DEMADEX , respectively .
Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) , Creatinine and Uric Acid DEMADEX produces small dose - related increases in each of these laboratory values .
In hypertensive patients who received 10 mg of DEMADEX daily for 6 weeks , the mean increase in blood urea nitrogen was 1 . 8 mg / dL ( 0 . 6 mmol / L ) , the mean increase in serum creatinine was 0 . 05 mg / dL ( 4 mmol / L ) , and the mean increase in serum uric acid was 1 . 2 mg / dL ( 70 mmol / L ) .
Little further change occurred with long - term treatment , and all changes reversed when treatment was discontinued .
Symptomatic gout has been reported in patients receiving DEMADEX , but its incidence has been similar to that seen in patients receiving placebo .
Glucose Hypertensive patients who received 10 mg of daily DEMADEX experienced a mean increase in serum glucose concentration of 5 . 5 mg / dL ( 0 . 3 mmol / L ) after 6 weeks of therapy , with a further increase of 1 . 8 mg / dL ( 0 . 1 mmol / L ) during the subsequent year .
In long - term studies in diabetics , mean fasting glucose values were not significantly changed from baseline .
Cases of hyperglycemia have been reported but are uncommon .
Serum Lipids In the controlled short - term hypertension studies in the United States , daily doses of 5 mg , 10 mg , and 20 mg of DEMADEX were associated with increases in total plasma cholesterol of 4 , 4 , and 8 mg / dL ( 0 . 10 to 0 . 20 mmol / L ) , respectively .
The changes subsided during chronic therapy .
In the same short - term hypertension studies , daily doses of 5 mg , 10 mg and 20 mg of DEMADEX were associated with mean increases in plasma triglycerides of 16 , 13 and 71 mg / dL ( 0 . 15 to 0 . 80 mmol / L ) , respectively .
In long - term studies of 5 mg to 20 mg of DEMADEX daily , no clinically significant differences from baseline lipid values were observed after 1 year of therapy .
Other In long - term studies in hypertensive patients , DEMADEX has been associated with small mean decreases in hemoglobin , hematocrit , and erythrocyte count and small mean increases in white blood cell count , platelet count , and serum alkaline phosphatase .
Although statistically significant , all of these changes were medically inconsequential .
No significant trends have been observed in any liver enzyme tests other than alkaline phosphatase .
Drug Interactions In patients with essential hypertension , DEMADEX has been administered together with beta - blockers , ACE inhibitors , and calcium - channel blockers .
In patients with congestive heart failure , DEMADEX has been administered together with digitalis glycosides , ACE inhibitors , and organic nitrates .
None of these combined uses was associated with new or unexpected adverse events .
Torsemide does not affect the protein binding of glyburide or of warfarin , the anticoagulant effect of phenprocoumon ( a related coumarin derivative ) , or the pharmacokinetics of digoxin or carvedilol ( a vasodilator / beta - blocker ) .
In healthy subjects , coadministration of DEMADEX was associated with significant reduction in the renal clearance of spironolactone , with corresponding increases in the AUC .
However , clinical experience indicates that dosage adjustment of either agent is not required .
Because DEMADEX and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules , patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when DEMADEX is concomitantly administered .
Also , although possible interactions between torsemide and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents ( including aspirin ) have not been studied , coadministration of these agents with another loop diuretic ( furosemide ) has occasionally been associated with renal dysfunction .
The natriuretic effect of DEMADEX ( like that of many other diuretics ) is partially inhibited by the concomitant administration of indomethacin .
This effect has been demonstrated for DEMADEX under conditions of dietary sodium restriction ( 50 mEq / day ) but not in the presence of normal sodium intake ( 150 mEq / day ) .
The pharmacokinetic profile and diuretic activity of torsemide are not altered by cimetidine or spironolactone .
Coadministration of digoxin is reported to increase the area under the curve for torsemide by 50 % , but dose adjustment of DEMADEX is not necessary .
Concomitant use of torsemide and cholestyramine has not been studied in humans but , in a study in animals , coadministration of cholestyramine decreased the absorption of orally administered torsemide .
If DEMADEX and cholestyramine are used concomitantly , simultaneous administration is not recommended .
Coadministration of probenecid reduces secretion of DEMADEX into the proximal tubule and thereby decreases the diuretic activity of DEMADEX .
Other diuretics are known to reduce the renal clearance of lithium , inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity , so coadministration of lithium and diuretics should be undertaken with great caution , if at all .
Coadministration of lithium and DEMADEX has not been studied .
Other diuretics have been reported to increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics and of ethacrynic acid , especially in the presence of impaired renal function .
These potential interactions with DEMADEX have not been studied .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility No overall increase in tumor incidence was found when torsemide was given to rats and mice throughout their lives at doses up to 9 mg / kg / day ( rats ) and 32 mg / kg / day ( mice ) .
On a body - weight basis , these doses are 27 to 96 times a human dose of 20 mg ; on a body - surface - area basis , they are 5 to 8 times this dose .
In the rat study , the high - dose female group demonstrated renal tubular injury , interstitial inflammation , and a statistically significant increase in renal adenomas and carcinomas .
The tumor incidence in this group was , however , not much higher than the incidence sometimes seen in historical controls .
Similar signs of chronic non - neoplastic renal injury have been reported in high - dose animal studies of other diuretics such as furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide .
No mutagenic activity was detected in any of a variety of in vivo and in vitro tests of torsemide and its major human metabolite .
The tests included the Ames test in bacteria ( with and without metabolic activation ) , tests for chromosome aberrations and sister - chromatid exchanges in human lymphocytes , tests for various nuclear anomalies in cells found in hamster and murine bone marrow , tests for unscheduled DNA synthesis in mice and rats , and others .
In doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( 75 times a human dose of 20 mg on a body - weight basis ; 13 times this dose on a body - surface - area basis ) , torsemide had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male or female rats .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There was no fetotoxicity or teratogenicity in rats treated with up to 5 mg / kg / day of torsemide ( on a mg / kg basis , this is 15 times a human dose of 20 mg / day ; on a mg / m2 basis , the animal dose is 10 times the human dose ) , or in rabbits , treated with 1 . 6 mg / kg / day ( on a mg / kg basis , 5 times the human dose of 20 mg / kg / day ; on a mg / m2 basis , 1 . 7 times this dose ) .
Fetal and maternal toxicity ( decrease in average body weight , increase in fetal resorption and delayed fetal ossification ) occurred in rabbits and rats given doses 4 ( rabbits ) and 5 ( rats ) times larger .
Adequate and well - controlled studies have not been carried out in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery The effect of DEMADEX on labor and delivery is unknown .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether DEMADEX is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when DEMADEX is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Administration of another loop diuretic to severely premature infants with edema due to patent ductus arteriosus and hyaline membrane disease has occasionally been associated with renal calcifications , sometimes barely visible on X - ray but sometimes in staghorn form , filling the renal pelves .
Some of these calculi have been dissolved , and hypercalciuria has been reported to have decreased , when chlorothiazide has been coadministered along with the loop diuretic .
In other premature neonates with hyaline membrane disease , another loop diuretic has been reported to increase the risk of persistent patent ductus arteriosus , possibly through a prostaglandin - E - mediated process .
The use of DEMADEX in such patients has not been studied .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received DEMADEX in United States clinical studies , 24 % were 65 or older while about 4 % were 75 or older .
No specific age - related differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between younger patients and elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS At the time of approval , DEMADEX had been evaluated for safety in approximately 4000 subjects : over 800 of these subjects received DEMADEX for at least 6 months , and over 380 were treated for more than 1 year .
Among these subjects were 564 who received DEMADEX during United States - based trials in which 274 other subjects received placebo .
The reported side effects of DEMADEX were generally transient , and there was no relationship between side effects and age , sex , race , or duration of therapy .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects occurred in 3 . 5 % of United States patients treated with DEMADEX and in 4 . 4 % of patients treated with placebo .
In studies conducted in the United States and Europe , discontinuation rates due to side effects were 3 . 0 % ( 38 / 1250 ) with DEMADEX and 3 . 4 % ( 13 / 380 ) with furosemide in patients with congestive heart failure , 2 . 0 % ( 8 / 409 ) with DEMADEX and 4 . 8 % ( 11 / 230 ) with furosemide in patients with renal insufficiency , and 7 . 6 % ( 13 / 170 ) with DEMADEX and 0 % ( 0 / 33 ) with furosemide in patients with cirrhosis .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with DEMADEX were ( in descending order of frequency ) dizziness , headache , nausea , weakness , vomiting , hyperglycemia , excessive urination , hyperuricemia , hypokalemia , excessive thirst , hypovolemia , impotence , esophageal hemorrhage , and dyspepsia .
Dropout rates for these adverse events ranged from 0 . 1 % to 0 . 5 % .
The side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in United States placebo - controlled trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with DEMADEX are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Reactions Possibly or Probably Drug - Related United States Placebo - Controlled Studies Incidence ( Percentages of Patients ) DEMADEX ( N = 564 ) Placebo ( N = 274 ) Headache 7 . 3 9 . 1 Excessive Urination 6 . 7 2 . 2 Dizziness 3 . 2 4 . 0 Rhinitis 2 . 8 2 . 2 Asthenia 2 . 0 1 . 5 Diarrhea 2 . 0 1 . 1 ECG Abnormality 2 . 0 0 . 4 Cough Increase 2 . 0 1 . 5 Constipation 1 . 8 0 . 7 Nausea 1 . 8 0 . 4 Arthralgia 1 . 8 0 . 7 Dyspepsia 1 . 6 0 . 7 Sore Throat 1 . 6 0 . 7 Myalgia 1 . 6 1 . 5 Chest Pain 1 . 2 0 . 4 Insomnia 1 . 2 1 . 8 Edema 1 . 1 1 . 1 Nervousness 1 . 1 0 . 4 The daily doses of DEMADEX used in these trials ranged from 1 . 25 mg to 20 mg , with most patients receiving 5 mg to 10 mg ; the duration of treatment ranged from 1 to 52 days , with a median of 41 days .
Of the side effects listed in the table , only " excessive urination " occurred significantly more frequently in patients treated with DEMADEX than in patients treated with placebo .
In the placebo - controlled hypertension studies whose design allowed side - effect rates to be attributed to dose , excessive urination was reported by 1 % of patients receiving placebo , 4 % of those treated with 5 mg of daily DEMADEX , and 15 % of those treated with 10 mg .
The complaint of excessive urination was generally not reported as an adverse event among patients who received DEMADEX for cardiac , renal , or hepatic failure .
Serious adverse events reported in the clinical studies for which a drug relationship could not be excluded were atrial fibrillation , chest pain , diarrhea , digitalis intoxication , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , hyperglycemia , hyperuricemia , hypokalemia , hypotension , hypovolemia , shunt thrombosis , rash , rectal bleeding , syncope , and ventricular tachycardia .
Angioedema has been reported in a patient exposed to DEMADEX who was later found to be allergic to sulfa drugs .
Of the adverse reactions during placebo - controlled trials listed without taking into account assessment of relatedness to drug therapy , arthritis and various other nonspecific musculoskeletal problems were more frequently reported in association with DEMADEX than with placebo , even though gout was somewhat more frequently associated with placebo .
These reactions did not increase in frequency or severity with the dose of DEMADEX .
One patient in the group treated with DEMADEX withdrew due to myalgia , and one in the placebo group withdrew due to gout .
Hypokalemia See WARNINGS .
OVERDOSAGE There is no human experience with overdoses of DEMADEX , but the signs and symptoms of overdosage can be anticipated to be those of excessive pharmacologic effect : dehydration , hypovolemia , hypotension , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hemoconcentration .
Treatment of overdosage should consist of fluid and electrolyte replacement .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of torsemide and its metabolites are not widely available .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( eg , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of torsemide and its metabolites .
Torsemide is not dialyzable , so hemodialysis will not accelerate elimination .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General DEMADEX tablets may be given at any time in relation to a meal , as convenient .
Special dosage adjustment in the elderly is not necessary .
Because of the high bioavailability of DEMADEX , oral and intravenous doses are therapeutically equivalent , so patients may be switched to and from the intravenous form with no change in dose .
DEMADEX intravenous injection should be administered either slowly as a bolus over a period of 2 minutes or administered as a continuous infusion .
If DEMADEX is administered through an IV line , it is recommended that , as with other IV injections , the IV line be flushed with Normal Saline ( Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ) before and after administration .
DEMADEX injection is formulated above pH 8 . 3 .
Flushing the line is recommended to avoid the potential for incompatibilities caused by differences in pH which could be indicated by color change , haziness or the formation of a precipitate in the solution .
If DEMADEX is administered as a continuous infusion , stability has been demonstrated through 24 hours at room temperature in plastic containers for the following fluids and concentrations : 200 mg DEMADEX ( 10 mg / mL ) added to : 250 mL Dextrose 5 % in water 250 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride 500 mL 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride 50 mg DEMADEX ( 10 mg / mL ) added to : 500 mL Dextrose 5 % in water 500 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride 500 mL 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Before administration , the solution of DEMADEX should be visually inspected for discoloration and particulate matter .
If either is found , the ampul should not be used .
Congestive Heart Failure The usual initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg of once - daily oral or intravenous DEMADEX .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , the dose should be titrated upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Single doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied .
Chronic Renal Failure The usual initial dose of DEMADEX is 20 mg of once - daily oral or intravenous DEMADEX .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , the dose should be titrated upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Single doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied .
Hepatic Cirrhosis The usual initial dose is 5 mg or 10 mg of once - daily oral or intravenous DEMADEX , administered together with an aldosterone antagonist or a potassium - sparing diuretic .
If the diuretic response is inadequate , the dose should be titrated upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained .
Single doses higher than 40 mg have not been adequately studied .
Chronic use of any diuretic in hepatic disease has not been studied in adequate and well - controlled trials .
Hypertension The usual initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
If the 5 mg dose does not provide adequate reduction in blood pressure within 4 to 6 weeks , the dose may be increased to 10 mg once daily .
If the response to 10 mg is insufficient , an additional antihypertensive agent should be added to the treatment regimen .
HOW SUPPLIED DEMADEX for oral administration is available as white , scored tablets containing 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , or 100 mg of torsemide .
The tablets are supplied in bottles and Tel - E - Dose ® [ 1 ] packages of 100 as follows : Dose Shape Bottle Tel - E - Dose 5 mg elliptical NDC 0004 - 0262 - 01 NDC 0004 - 0262 - 49 10 mg elliptical NDC 0004 - 0263 - 01 NDC 0004 - 0263 - 49 20 mg elliptical NDC 0004 - 0264 - 01 NDC 0004 - 0264 - 49 100 mg capsule shaped NDC 0004 - 0265 - 01 NDC 0004 - 0265 - 49 Each tablet is debossed on the scored side with the logo BM and 102 , 103 , 104 , or 105 ( for 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , or 100 mg , respectively ) .
On the opposite side , the tablet is debossed with 5 , 10 , 20 , or 100 to indicate the dose .
DEMADEX for intravenous injection is supplied in clear ampuls containing 2 mL ( 20 mg , NDC 0004 - 0267 - 06 ) or 5 mL ( 50 mg , NDC 0004 - 0268 - 06 ) of a 10 mg / mL sterile solution .
The ampuls are supplied in boxes of 10 .
[ 1 ] Tel - E - Dose is a registered trademark of Hoffmann - La Roche Inc .
Storage Store all dosage forms at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Distributed by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 27898521 27898522 Rev : April 2003 Printed in USA Copyright © 1998 - 2003 by Roche Laboratories Inc .
All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
