Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Each mL of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser contains 100 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 50 mg of Sulfur in a formulation containing butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glyceryl stearate , PEG 100 stearate , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum and xanthan gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is not known , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetaminde may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS : General - If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser .
It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Topical Suspension is available in 6 oz ( 170 . 3 g ) bottles , NDC 42192 - 136 - 06 , 8 oz ( 227 g ) bottles , 42192 - 136 - 08 and 12 oz ( 340 . 2 g ) bottles , NDC 42192 - 136 - 12 .
Store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30009 • 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0616 - 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 170 . 3 g Bottle Label NDC 42192 - 136 - 06 Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % - Sulfur 5 % Cleanser Rx Only SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE 6 oz ( 170 . 3 g ) Acella PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
