This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 75 % .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use For Hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria and germs on skin Apply topically to skin to help prevent cross contamination Dries in seconds Warnings For external use only .
Harmful if shallowed Highly Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Avoid contact with open or exposed skin wounds Do not use • Do not use as baby wipes • Do not flush down the toilets • Do not use in or contact the eyes When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation and sensitivity develops or increases .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation and sensitivity develops or increases .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Lift the tab on the top of the lid to open • Open moisture seal film package before use .
• Pull out first wipe through the dispensing center of the canister .
Next sheets pops up automatically .
• Close the lid to retain moisture .
• Wipe down with this product .
Let air dry .
Other information • Store at room temperature between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Lot No . , manufacture date and expiration date can be found on package .
Inactive ingredients Purified water Hand Sanitizing wipes - Package Label - Principal Display Panel Hand Sanitizing wipes 50 pcs NDC : 81406 - 001 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hand Sanitizing Wipes - 50 pcs Hand Sanitizing Wipes - 50 pcs NDC : 81406 - 001 - 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
