Method of use Surgical hand disinfection : It can be washed and sprayed with stock solution .
It can be dried naturally after use .
It is not necessary to wash with clean water Disinfection of medical devices : It can be soaked in stock solution or sprayed directly Skin disinfection : The medical gauze soaked in the original solution or soaked with the original solution can be washed repeatedly , wet applied to the disinfected part or sprayed directly on the disinfected part .
Oral and pharyngeal disinfection : Gargle or spray repeatedly with stock solution for 3 - 5 times Mucosal disinfection : It can be sprayed with stock solution or directly washed after the stock solution is poured into the washer Disinfection of object surface : It can be scrubbed or sprayed directly with medical gauze soaked in stock solution or soaked with stock solution Disinfection of fruits , vegetables and tableware : It can be soaked in the stock solution or sprayed directly .
It can be dried naturally after use without washing with clean water Tableware cleaning enterprises , food processing equipment and tool disinfection : It can be soaked in the stock solution or sprayed directly .
It can be dried naturally after use without washing with clean water WATER scope of application it is applicable to the sanitary cleaning and disinfection of skin , mouth , pharynx , object surface , fruits and vegetables and tableware in people ' s daily life ; It is applicable to the disinfection of hands , medical instruments and vaginal mucosa ( only for diagnosis and treatment in medical and health institutions ) of medical personnel during surgery ; It is suitable for tableware disinfection of production equipment of tableware cleaning enterprises and tableware distribution in catering industry ; It is applicable to the disinfection of equipment and tools in direct contact with food in food processing enterprises .
Sodium chloride keep out of reach of children category of killing microorganisms SDG ™ The disinfectant has bactericidal effect on Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Candida albicans and Bacillus subtilis black variant spores ; It can inactivate poliovirus .
The bactericidal rate reached 99 . 9999 % , which is characterized by safety , reliability , no side effects , no irritation , completely killing COVID - 19 and environmental protection .
sealed storage in a cool , dry and dark place 1 .
This product should be sealed and stored away from light ; 2 .
Avoid prolonged exposure of liquids to air ; 3 .
The product shall be stored in the environment within 4 ℃ - 40 ℃ ; 4 .
Valid for one year ( use within 90 days after unsealing ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
