DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution prepared from lidocaine hydrochloride and dextrose in water for injection .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
Lidocaine hydrochloride is designated chemically as 2 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 ' , 6 ' - acetoxylidide monohydrochloride .
The solution serves as a cardiac antiarrhythmic agent intended for intravenous use .
Composition , osmolarity , pH and caloric content are shown in Table 1 .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
Table 1 Composition [ 1 ] Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc ) pH Caloric Content ( kcal / L ) ** Lidocaine Hydrochloride , USP ( mg / mL ) *** Dextrose Hydrous , USP ( g / L ) 0 . 4 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 4 50 282 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) 170 0 . 8 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 8 50 311 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) 170 [ 1 ] Normal physiologic osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This VIAFLEX Plus plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
VIAFLEX Plus on the container indicates the presence of a drug additive in a drug vehicle .
The VIAFLEX Plus plastic container system utilizes the same container as the VIAFLEX plastic container system .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Lidocaine hydrochloride exerts an antiarrhythmic effect by increasing the electrical stimulation threshold of the ventricle during diastole .
In usual therapeutic doses , lidocaine hydrochloride produces no change in myocardial contractility , in systemic arterial pressure , or in absolute refractory period .
Central nervous system adverse reactions become apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL .
Pharmacokinetics The plasma protein binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 micrograms of free base per milliliter 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 mediated N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethyl glycine xylidide ( MEGX ) and glycine xylidide ( GX ) .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The elimination half - life of lidocaine following an intravenous bolus injection is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Specific Populations Hepatic Impairment Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal Impairment Mild or moderate renal impairment does not affect lidocaine kinetics ; while in patients with severe renal dysfunction , lidocaine clearance is decreased by half and the accumulation of GX increased 1 . 5 - fold .
Lidocaine toxicity is related to systemic blood levels .
The decreased clearance and longer half - life of lidocaine should be taken into consideration with prolonged ( 24 hour ) infusions .
Constant rate of infusion may result in toxic accumulation of lidocaine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride administered intravenously is specifically indicated in the acute management of ( 1 ) ventricular arrhythmias occurring during cardiac manipulations , such as cardiac surgery and ( 2 ) life - threatening arrhythmias which are ventricular in origin , such as occur during acute myocardial infarction .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylactic reactions , have been reported with lidocaine .
Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with Stokes - Adams syndrome , Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome , or with severe degrees of sinoatrial , atrioventricular , or intraventricular block .
WARNINGS Constant monitoring with an electrocardiograph is essential to the administration of lidocaine hydrochloride intravenously .
Signs of excessive depression of cardiac conductivity , such as prolongation of the PR interval , widening of the QRS interval and the appearance or aggravation of arrhythmias , should be followed by prompt cessation of the intravenous infusion of this agent .
It is mandatory to have emergency resuscitative equipment and drugs immediately available to manage adverse reactions involving cardiovascular , respiratory , or central nervous systems .
Central nervous system adverse reactions are associated with venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Hypersensitivity , including anaphylaxis , has been reported with lidocaine - containing solutions .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs of hypersensitivity develop .
Acceleration of ventricular rate may occur in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter treated with lidocaine .
In patients with sinus bradycardia or incomplete heart block , the administration of lidocaine hydrochloride intravenously for the elimination of ventricular ectopic beats without prior acceleration in heart r ate ( e . g . , by isoproterenol or by electric pacing ) may promote more frequent and serious ventricular arrhythmias or complete heart block ( see Contraindications ) .
Because lidocaine is metabolized mainly in the liver and excreted by the kidneys , patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency may be at increased risk for toxicity .
PRECAUTIONS General : If malignant hyperthermia develops , discontinue administration immediately and institute therapeutic countermeasures as clinically indicated .
Lidocaine hydrochloride should not be added to blood transfusion assemblies because of the possibilities of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis .
Laboratory Tests : Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Drug Interactions : Pharmacodynamics Interactions Digitalis derivatives : Monitor toxicity when lidocaine is used in patients with digitalis toxicity accompanied by supraventricular arrhythmia and / or atrioventricular block ( see Contraindications ) .
When lidocaine is administered with other antiarrhythmic drugs such as amiodarone , phenytoin , procainamide , propranolol or quinidine , the cardiac effects may be additive or antagonistic and toxic effects may be additive .
Pharmacokinetics Interactions Concomitant treatment with drugs which are inhibitors of CYP1A2 and / or CYP3A4 has the potential to increase lidocaine plasma levels by decreasing lidocaine clearance and thereby prolonging the elimination half - life .
Monitor toxicity when administering lidocaine with CYP1A2 and / or CYP3A4 inhibitors .
Concomitant use of lidocaineat steady - state concentrations of the CYP1A2 inhibitor fluvoxamine increases intravenous lidocaine plasma AUC and Cmax by 71 % and 22 % , and decreases MEGX AUC and Cmax by 54 % and 65 % .
Fluvoxamine decreases the plasma clearance of lidocaine by 41 % - 60 % and prolonged the mean half - life by one hour .
Monitor toxicity when coadministering these medications .
Concomitant use of lidocaine with propofol , a hypnotic agent and CYP3A4 inhibitor , may increase lidocaine plasma levels by reducing lidocaine clearance .
Monitor toxicity when coadministering lidocaine with propofol .
Concomitant treatment with drugs which are inducers of CYP1A2 and / or CYP3A4 ( e . g . , phenytoin ) has the potential to decrease lidocaine plasma levels and higher doses may be required .
Concomitant use of lidocaine with a weak CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 inhibitor has been reported to increase lidocaine plasma levels by 24 % – 75 % and may result in toxic accumulation of the drug .
Monitor toxicity when coadministering lidocaine with cimetidine .
Beta - adrenergic blockers ( e . g . propranolol ) : Concomitant use of lidocaine with beta - adrenergic blockers may increase lidocaine plasma levels by decreasing hepatic blood flow and thereby decrease lidocaine clearance .
Monitor for toxicity when coadministering lidocaine with drugs that decrease hepatic blood flow .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility of lidocaine hydrochloride .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to five times the maximum human dose and have revealed no significant findings .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , physicians should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits for each specific patient before prescribing lidocaine hydrochloride .
Lidocaine may cross the placental barrier .
Nursing Mothers : Lidocaine is present in human milk .
Published studies have reported a range of lidocaine milk : plasma ratios between 0 . 4 - 1 . 1 .
Limited data available on lidocaine ’ s effects on the breastfed child have not revealed a consistent pattern of associated adverse events .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for lidocaine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from lidocaine or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic reactions of the following types have been reported : Nervous System Disorders : respiratory depression and arrest ; unconsciousness ; convulsions ; tremors ; twitching ; vomiting ; blurred or double vision ; drowsiness ; dizziness ; light - headedness ; tinnitus ; sensation of heat , cold or numbness ; euphoria ; apprehension ; agitation ; confused state ; paresthesia ; dysarthria .
Cardiovascular System : cardiovascular arrest ; bradycardia which may lead to cardiac arrest ; hypotension , Ventricular fibrillation , Ventricular tachycardia , Ventricular arrhythmia , Asystole .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Hypoesthesia oral , Nausea , Hematologic Effects : methemoglobinemia .
Psychiatric Disorders : Disorientation Allergic reactions , including anaphylactic reactions , may occur but are infrequent .
There have been no reports of cross sensitivity between lidocaine hydrochloride and procainamide or between lidocaine hydrochloride and quinidine .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms of overdose may include : • • Central nervous system effects , e . g . , coma , loss of consciousness , CNS depression , seizure , tonic - clonic muscle jerks , tremor , nystagmus , tingling of tongue and lips , tinnitus , drowsiness , disorientation , and lightheadedness .
• • Cardiorespiratory effects , e . g . , cardiovascular collapse and cardiorespiratory arrest ( sometimes fatal ) , respiratory depression and arrest , hypotension , myocardial depression , arrhythmias , including asystole , heart block , ventricular arrhythmias , tachycardia , and bradycardia .
Discontinue lidocaine administration in the event of an overdose .
There is no specific antidote for overdose of lidocaine .
The risk of overdose can be minimized by close monitoring during treatment .
Emergency procedures should include appropriate corrective , resuscitative , and other supportive measures ( See WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy of ventricular arrhythmias is often initiated with a single IV bolus of 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 mg / kg at a rate of 25 to 50 mg / min .
of lidocaine hydrochloride injection .
Following acute treatment by bolus in patients in whom arrhythmias tend to recur and who are incapable of receiving oral antiarrhythmic agents , intravenous infusion of Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP is administered continuously at the rate of 1 to 4 mg / min ( 0 . 020 to 0 . 050 mg / kg / min in the average 70 kg adult ) .
The 0 . 4 % solution ( 4 mg / mL ) can be given at a rate of 15 to 60 mL / hr ( 0 . 25 to 1 mL / min ) .
The 0 . 8 % solution ( 8 mg / mL ) can be given at a rate of 7 . 5 to 30 mL / hr ( 0 . 12 to 0 . 5 mL / min ) .
Precise dosage regimen is determined by patient characteristics and response .
Infusion rate should be reduced by approximately one - half to compensate for decreased rate of clearance after prolonged infusion ( 24 hours ) ( see Clinical Pharmacology ) .
Failure to adjust the rate of infusion in keeping with this altered ability to eliminate lidocaine may result in toxic accumulation of the drug in the patient ’ s serum .
Intravenous infusions of lidocaine hydrochloride must be administered under constant ECG monitoring to avoid potential overdosage and toxicity .
Intravenous infusion should be terminated as soon as the patient ’ s basic cardiac rhythm appears to be stable or at the earliest signs of toxicity ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
It should rarely be necessary to continue intravenous infusions beyond 24 hours .
As soon as possible and when indicated , patients should be changed to an oral antiarrhythmic agent for maintenance therapy .
Caution : When administering lidocaine hydrochloride by continuous infusion , it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion rate .
Administer Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP only with a calibrated infusion device .
Pediatric : Clinical studies to establish pediatric dosing schedules have not been conducted .
The usual dosage is a bolus dose of 1 mg / kg followed by an infusion rate of 20 mcg to 50 mcg / kg / min .
The bolus dose should be repeated if infusion is not initiated within 15 minutes of the initial bolus dose .
Hepatic impairment is likely to decrease clearance and increase exposure level of lidocaine .
Administer lidocaine at lower maintenance infusion rate with close monitoring of toxicity in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment : In patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , administer lidocaine at lower maintenance infusion rate with close monitoring of toxicity .
Lidocaine is incompatible with the following due to precipitate formation ( includes but is not limited to ) : • • Amphotericin • • Cephazolin sodium • • Phenytoin sodium Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , the seal is intact , and the container is undamaged .
Some opacity of the container plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions , where possible .
Lidocaine must not be infused simultaneously through the same tubing with other medicinal products without first verifying their compatibility .
Set the vent to the close position on a vented intravenous administration set to prevent air embolism .
All injections in VIAFLEX Plus plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
Because dosages of this drug are titrated to response , no additives should be made to Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
HOW SUPPLIED Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP in VIAFLEX plastic container is available as follows : Code Size ( mL ) NDC Product Name 2B0972 250 0338 - 0409 - 02 Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose 2B0973 500 0338 - 0409 - 03 Injection , USP ( 4 mg / mL ) 2B0962 250 0338 - 0411 - 02 Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP ( 8 mg / mL ) Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in USA 07 - 19 - 76 - 975 Rev . February 2017 BAXTER , VIAFLEX , and PL 146 are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container LOT EXP NDC 0338 - 0411 - 02 Lidocaine Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection USP 2 g per 250 mL ( 8 mg / mL ) 250 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH 100 mL CONTAINS 800 mg LIDOCAINE HCI USP AND 5 g DEXTROSE HYDROUS USP pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 TO 7 . 0 ) OSMOLARITY 311 mOsmol / L ( CALC ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERTDO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION FOR USE ONLY WITH A CALIBRATED INFUSION DEVICE STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter USA 2B0962 50 100 150 200 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Lot : T123456 Exp : JAN 2020 QTY : 24 - 250 mL Code : 2B0962 NDC : 0338 - 0411 - 02 LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 2 g per 250 mL Bar Code ( 01 ) 50303380411028 ( 17 ) 200131 ( 21 ) 000000000011 ( 10 ) T123456 Bar Code ( 01 ) 50303380411028 17 ) 200131 ( 21 ) 000000000011 ( 10 ) T123456 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Container LOTEXP NDC 0338 - 0409 - 03 Lidocaine Lidocaine Hydrochloride and 5 % Dextrose Injection USP 2 g per 500 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) 500 mL STERILE SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER EACH 100 mL CONTAINS 400 mg LIDOCAINE HCI USP AND 5 g DEXTROSE HYDROUS USP pH 4 . 0 ( 3 . 0 TO 7 . 0 ) OSMOLARITY 282 mOsmol / L ( CALC ) USUAL DOSAGE SEE INSERT DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION FOR USE ONLY WITH A CALIBRATED INFUSION DEVICE STORE IN MOISTURE BARRIER OVERWRAP AT ROOM TEMPERATURE ( 77 ° F OR25 ° C ) UNTIL READY TO USE RX ONLY Baxter Logo USA 2B0973 1 2 3 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Lot : T123456 Exp : Jan 2020 QTY : 18 - 500 mL Code : 2B0973 NDC : 0338 - 0409 - 03 LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE AND 5 % DEXTROSE INJECTION , USP 2 g per 500 mL Bar Code ( 17 ) 5030338049032 ( 17 ) 200131 ( 21 ) 000000000064 ( 10 ) T123456 Bar Code ( 01 ) 50303380409032 ( 17 ) 200131 ( 21 ) 000000000064 ( 10 ) T123456 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
