INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Cocos Nucifera ( Coconut ) Oil , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Mineral Oil , Polyester - 8 , SD Alcohol 40 - B , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Contents under pressure - do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F . Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Directions • Spray liberally and spread evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well - ventilated area • Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protecion measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • Avoid spraying on fabrics - could cause discoloration • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - 950 - 2563 or visit www . aloeup . com ALOE UP SPORT PERFORMANCE SUNSCREEN Broad spectrum SPF 50 - 5 . 5 oz ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
