Drug Facts Carbamide Peroxide drops Active Ingredients Carbamide Peroxide 6 . 5 % Purpose Earwax Removal Aid Uses Use occasionally as an aid to soften , loosen , and remove excessive earwax .
Warnings Do not use : • If you have had an allergic reactionto carbamide peroxide or other ingredients in teh dropper bottle .
• If you have ear drainage or discharge , ear pain , ear infections , irritation , rash in the ear , or are dizzy .
( Please consult a doctor with concerns ) .
• If you have an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the eardrum or after ear surgery or mastoid surgery , unless directed by a doctor .
• More than a twice a week .
• For children under 12 years of age .
• If you have tubes in your ears .
When using this product : • Avoid contact with eyes • Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately .
• If accidental contact with eyes occurs , flush eyes with water and consult a doctor .
• System is designed for a single user to reduce the risk of contamination .
DO NOT SHARE WITH OTHERS • Individuals with Meniere ' s Syndrome or those experiencing dizziness , vertigo , impacted earwax or other ear problems should not use this product unless directed by a physician .
• Please do not discard this printed box and any enclosed printed material .
The inside final product may not have all the details you require for the ongoing use of the product .
Other Information • Keep cap on plastic bottle when not in use .
Inactive Ingredients Glycerin , Oxyquinoline Directions for ReUsable Ear Cleaners For use in the ear only .
Make sure to check physical integrity of the tool prior to use .
When usingfor teh first time , begin with the COIL tool .
Grasp tool comfortably between thumb , index and middle fingers .
Direct toward ear .
Gently advance tool toward the earcanal and SPIN tool continuously - slowly advancing into the outer portion of canal .
Rotate in one direction per insertion .
For additional extraction , try the BRISTLE , SCREW or CLUB tools .
DO NOT POKE OR JAB INTO EAR .
DO NOT FORCIBLY ADVANCE .
NOT FOR DEEP CANAL INSERTION .
Each person ' s requirements vary .
Impacted earwax should be removed by a health care professional .
Check with your physician .
DISINFECTIONS INSTRUCTIONS : Clean with soap and warm water followed by immersing eartools in isopropyl rubbing alcohol 70 % .
Use tool when dry .
SUGGESTED USE : Intended for EAR HYGIENE : Cleaning of debris , itch relief , exfoliation , water extraction and superficial wax around the ear and outer ear canal .
Daily or less frequent use may be beneficial .
Directions for Dosing • To aid with the softening of teh earwax , you may use NeilMed Clear Canal Earwax Softener in conjunction with the eartools to provide maiximum benefit .
• Remove the cap from the NeilMed Clear Canal EarWax Softener bottle and squuze a few drops of the solution into the cavity of the cap .
Dip the tip of the ear tool into the solution so that the tip of the tool is coated with softener solution .
Follow the directions given for use of the tools .
• Wash the cap with warm water and dry completely before placing back on softener bottle • If you wish , you may also place 10 drops of NeilMed Claer Canal Earwax Softener in teh earcanals as directed prior to use of the eartools .
Keep ear plugged for 5 - 10 minutes .
Now use the tools to remove the softened earwax .
when Using this product Keep out of reach of Children Warnings : Do not use : If you have had an allergic reactionto carbamide peroxide or other ingredients in teh dropper bottle .
If you have ear drainage or discharge , ear pain , ear infections , irritation , rash in the ear , or are dizzy .
( Please consult a doctor with concerns ) .
If you have an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the eardrum or after ear surgery or mastoid surgery , unless directed by a doctor .
More than a twice a week .
For children under 12 years of age .
If you have tubes in your ears .
WaxOut PLus - Box Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
