This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use USE : for disinfection , sterilization .
relief of prockly heat .
insect bites , hygenic purposes and general antiseptic .
Warnings For external use only .
if taken internally serious gasric disturbances will result .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Use only in a well - ventilated area ; fumes may be toxic .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds do not get into eyes .
do not apply over large areas of the body .
do not use longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse .
Keep out reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions : • clean affected area .
• apply small amount of this product on the area 1 - 3 times dailly .
• if bandaged let dry first .
• may be covered with a sterile bandage .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 ml NDC : 55449 - 075 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
