2 % CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE CLOTH Active Ingredient Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Purpose Antiseptic Use helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection for preparation of skin prior to surgery Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : wheezing / difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product for lumbar punctures or in contact with the meninges on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if chlorhexidine is permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
do not microwave product and packaging are not sterile .
Follow your hospital policy for skin preparation with non - sterile products .
To open package holding top of package in one hand , lift flap on backside of package with other hand grasp flap at top and pull down to tear flap away and expose foam hold outside of package to present foam and cloths to prep table , avoiding contact between cloths and outside of package to reduce risk of cloth contamination Or using sterile scissors , cut off end seal of package transfer contents onto prep table , avoiding contact between cloths and outside of package to reduce risk of cloth contamination use first cloth to prepare the skin area indicated for a moist or dry site , making certain to keep the second cloth where it will not be contaminated .
Use second cloth to prepare larger areas .
dry surgical sites ( such as abdomen or arm ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 161 cm 2 area ( approximately 5 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
moist surgical sites ( such as inguinal fold ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 65 cm 2 area ( approximately 2 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to air dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
discard each cloth after a single use after package has been opened discard any unused cloths Other information store product flat store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera , dimethicone , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , glycerin , Igepal ® , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , USP purified water cloth : polyester Questions or Comments ?
call toll - free 800 - 323 - 2220 ( Monday to Friday 8 AM - 5 PM CST ) www . stryker . com DO NOT FLUSH CLOTHS Not made with natural rubber latex Patents : https : / / www . stryker . com / us / en / about / patents / medical - patents . html 2 - pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3x2 pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 - pack [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
