Rx only DO NOT USE IN THE EYES .
DESCRIPTION A soothing hydrogel wound dressing that promotes a moist wound environment that is ideal for the healing process LDO Plus contains Lidocaine HCl USP 4 % , which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Stage I - IV pressure ulcers • Venous stasis ulcers • Ulcerations caused by mixed vascular etiologies • Diabetic skin ulcers • First and second degree burns • Post - surgical incisions , cuts and abrasions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS LDO Plus contains Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP and is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of LDO Plus .
Do not use LDO Plus on traumatized mucosa or in the presence of secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application .
WARNINGS Do not use this product if you are allergic to any ingredients .
If condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days , consult a physician .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age without consulting a physician .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use in large quantities .
For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LDO Plus Hydrogel should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
In case of accidental ingestion get medical help or contact poison control center right away .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE : Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid over dosage when applying LDO Plus to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be increased under such conditions .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse experiences following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central Nervous System : CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Administration Cleanse the wound and blow it dry .
Apply a thin layer of LDO Plus to the wound surface and the skin immediately surrounding the wound 3 - 4 times daily .
STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
HOW SUPPLIED LDO Plus ( Lidocaine HCl USP 4 % ) 1 / 2 oz ( 15 g ) 15 mL Airless Pump - NDC 35781 - 0500 - 1 1 . 00 oz ( 30 g ) 30 mL Airless Pump - NDC 35781 - 0500 - 3 3 . 00 oz ( 90 g ) 90 mL Airless Pump - NDC 35781 - 0500 - 9 Gensco Labratories , LLC 8550 NW 33 rd St Suite 200 Doral , FL 33122 LIDOCAINE HCL ( LIDOCAINE HCL ) HYDROGEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
