Drug Facts Active Ingredients Glycerin 25 % Kaolin 12 . 5 % Calamine 12 . 5 % Menthol 1 % Purposes Glycerin .......... Protectant Kaolin ............. Protectant / Anti - itch Calamine ........ Protectant / Anti - itch Menthol .......... Analgesic Uses • Helps relieve the itching and discomfort associated with anorectal disorders • Provides temporary relief from the symptoms of perianal skin irritation • For the temporary relief of itching associated with moist anorectal conditions • For the temporary relief of irritation and burning Warnings For rectal use only Do not use unless a prior doctor ' s diagnosis of anorectal condition has been made When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • allergic reaction develops • symptoms being treated do not subside or if redness , irritation , swelling , pain , other symptoms develop or increase • Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
• Remove petrolatum or greasy ointment before using this product because they interfere with the ability of this product to adhere properly to the skin area If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• For Pruritus Ani : Wait 20 seconds after drying .
If the desire to scratch is gone , do not apply cream .
If the desire to scratch continues , apply a fingertip amount of ointment to anal and perianal areas .
Use finger cot or disposable gloves if desired .
Rub or lightly scratch ( with fingertip , not fingernails ) until the itch is satisfied .
• For Anal Fissures : Apply a fingertip amount of cream to the anal area and to the inner rim of the anus .
• Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor • Apply externally to the affected area once or twice daily when pain or irritation from anal fissures are present or ideally after bowel movement .
Other Information store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Cetearyl Alcohol , Deionized Water , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Isopropyl Palmitate , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , SD Alcohol , Silica , Stearyl Alcohol Questions or Comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM CST at 763 - 537 - 3419 Principal Display Package PRANICURA II Ultimate Relief from Pruritus Ani , Fissures and Hemmo Available only at : www . pranicura . com Net Wt .
2 . 1 oz .
( 60 g ) Manufactured for Pranicura , LLC by Sarati International , Inc .
Los Fresnos , Texas 78566 [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ]
