active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 8 % purpose sunscreen uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approacing a souce of heat or flame , or before smoking do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
 contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Conrol Center right away direction ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , stearoxytrimethylsilane , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance Distributed by : ADUSA Distribution , LLC , Salisbury , NC 28147 For product questions or concerns , contact us at 1 - 833 - 992 - 3872 Quality guaranteed or your money back .
May stain or damage some fabrics of surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Beiersdorf AG , distributor of Coppertone Sunscreen Spray Sport Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
DSP - TN - 21091 DSP - MO - 20087 principal display panel Twin Pack CARE ONE Compare to Coppertone Broad Spectrum SPF 50 * SPORT Sunscreen Spray SPF 50 UVA / UVB PROTECTION Broad Spectrum SPF 50 Water resistant ( 80 ) Formulated without Oxybenzone & Octinoxate 2 - 9 . 1 OZ ( 258 g ) Bottles : NET WT 18 . 2 OZ ( 516 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
