SPL UNCLASSIFIED Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP Aqueous Dispersion of Vitamin K1 Ampul Rx only Protect from light .
Keep ampuls in tray until time of use .
BOXED WARNING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Phytonadione is a vitamin , which is a clear , yellow to amber , viscous , odorless or nearly odorless liquid .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in chloroform and slightly soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 450 . 70 .
Phytonadione is 2 - methyl - 3 - phytyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone .
Its empirical formula is C31H46O2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) is a yellow , sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous dispersion available for injection by the intravenous , intramuscular and subcutaneous routes .
Each milliliter contains phytonadione 2 or 10 mg , polyoxyethylated fatty acid derivative 70 mg , dextrose , hydrous 37 . 5 mg in water for injection ; benzyl alcohol 9 mg added as preservative .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
pH is 6 . 3 ( 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
Phytonadione is oxygen sensitive .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) aqueous dispersion of vitamin K1 for parenteral injection , possesses the same type and degree of activity as does naturally - occurring vitamin K , which is necessary for the production via the liver of active prothrombin ( factor II ) , proconvertin ( factor VII ) , plasma thromboplastin component ( factor IX ) , and Stuart factor ( factor X ) .
The prothrombin test is sensitive to the levels of three of these four factors − II , VII , and X . Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the post - translational carboxylation of multiple , specific , peptide - bound glutamic acid residues in inactive hepatic precursors of factors II , VII , IX , and X .
The resulting gamma - carboxy - glutamic acid residues convert the precursors into active coagulation factors that are subsequently secreted by liver cells into the blood .
Phytonadione is readily absorbed following intramuscular administration .
After absorption , phytonadione is initially concentrated in the liver , but the concentration declines rapidly .
Very little vitamin K accumulates in tissues .
Little is known about the metabolic fate of vitamin K . Almost no free unmetabolized vitamin K appears in bile or urine .
In normal animals and humans , phytonadione is virtually devoid of pharmacodynamic activity .
However , in animals and humans deficient in vitamin K , the pharmacological action of vitamin K is related to its normal physiological function , that is , to promote the hepatic biosynthesis of vitamin K dependent clotting factors .
The action of the aqueous dispersion , when administered intravenously , is generally detectable within an hour or two and hemorrhage is usually controlled within 3 to 6 hours .
A normal prothrombin level may often be obtained in 12 to 14 hours .
In the prophylaxis and treatment of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn , phytonadione has demonstrated a greater margin of safety than that of the water - soluble vitamin K analogues .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II , VII , IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity .
Vitamin K1 Injection is indicated in : anticoagulant - induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives ; prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn ; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy ; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K , e . g . , obstructive jaundice , biliary fistula , sprue , ulcerative colitis , celiac disease , intestinal resection , cystic fibrosis of the pancreas , and regional enteritis ; other drug - induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism , e . g . , salicylates .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol as a preservative in Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Data are unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group .
There is no evidence to suggest that the small amount of benzyl alcohol contained in Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) , when used as recommended , is associated with toxicity .
An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione .
It takes a minimum of 1 to 2 hours for measurable improvement in the prothrombin time .
Whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe .
Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin .
When vitamin K1 is used to correct excessive anticoagulant - induced hypoprothrombinemia , anticoagulant therapy still being indicated , the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy .
Phytonadione is not a clotting agent , but overzealous therapy with vitamin K1 may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena .
Dosage should be kept as low as possible , and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Repeated large doses of vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory .
Failure to respond to vitamin K may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to vitamin K . Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they required large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin - depressing anticoagulants may result , especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used .
If relatively large doses have been employed , it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin - depressing anticoagulant , or to use one which acts on a different principle , such as heparin sodium .
Laboratory Tests Prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies of carcinogenicity , mutagenesis or impairment of fertility have not been conducted with Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Vitamin K1 Injection .
It is also not known whether Vitamin K1 Injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Vitamin K1 Injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Vitamin K1 Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Hemolysis , jaundice , and hyperbilirubinemia in neonates , particularly those that are premature , may be related to the dose of Vitamin K1 Injection .
Therefore , the recommended dose should not be exceeded ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Deaths have occurred after intravenous and intramuscular administration .
( See BOX WARNING . )
Transient " flushing sensations " and " peculiar " sensations of taste have been observed , as well as rare instances of dizziness , rapid and weak pulse , profuse sweating , brief hypotension , dyspnea , and cyanosis .
Pain , swelling , and tenderness at the injection site may occur .
The possibility of allergic sensitivity including an anaphylactoid reaction , should be kept in mind .
Infrequently , usually after repeated injection , erythematous , indurated , pruritic plaques have occurred ; rarely , these have progressed to scleroderma - like lesions that have persisted for long periods .
In other cases , these lesions have resembled erythema perstans .
Hyperbilirubinemia has been observed in the newborn following administration of phytonadione .
This has occurred rarely and primarily with doses above those recommended ( See PRECAUTIONS , PEDIATRIC USE ) .
OVERDOSAGE The intravenous LD50 of Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) in the mouse is 41 . 5 and 52 mL / kg for the 0 . 2 % and 1 % concentrations , respectively .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Whenever possible , Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) should be given by the subcutaneous route ( See BOX WARNING ) .
When intravenous administration is considered unavoidable , the drug should be injected very slowly , not exceeding 1 mg per minute .
Protect from light at all times .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Directions for Dilution Vitamin K1 Injection may be diluted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection .
Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in newborns .
Therefore , all of the above diluents should be preservative - free ( See WARNINGS ) .
Other diluents should not be used .
When dilutions are indicated , administration should be started immediately after mixture with the diluent , and unused portions of the dilution should be discarded , as well as unused contents of the ampul .
Prophylaxis of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that vitamin K1 be given to the newborn .
A single intramuscular dose of Vitamin K1 Injection 0 . 5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended .
Treatment of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn Empiric administration of vitamin K1 should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism .
A prompt response ( shortening of the prothrombin time in 2 to 4 hours ) following administration of vitamin K1 is usually diagnostic of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn , and failure to respond indicates another diagnosis or coagulation disorder .
Vitamin K1 Injection 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly .
Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants .
Whole blood or component therapy may be indicated if bleeding is excessive .
This therapy , however , does not correct the underlying disorder and Vitamin K1 Injection should be given concurrently .
Anticoagulant - Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant therapy — 2 . 5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended .
In rare instances 50 mg may be required .
Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition ( See WARNINGS ) .
If in 6 to 8 hours after parenteral administration the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily , the dose should be repeated .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] In the event of shock or excessive blood loss , the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated .
Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults A dosage of 2 . 5 to 25 mg or more ( rarely up to 50 mg ) is recommended , the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained .
If possible , discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms ( such as salicylates ; antibiotics ) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent Vitamin K1 Injection .
The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of Vitamin K1 Injection is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED VITAMIN K1 INJ .
PHYTONADIONE INJECTABLE EMULSION is supplied in the following dosage forms .
NDC 51662 - 1537 - 2 ( POUCH ) , 1 PER POUCH OF VITAMIN K1 INJ .
PHYTONADIONE INJECTABLE EMULSION , USP 1 mg / 0 . 5 mL NEONATAL CONCENTRATION AMP NDC 51662 - 1537 - 3 ( BOX ) VITAMIN K1 INJ .
PHYTONADIONE INJECTABLE EMULSION , USP 1 mg / 0 . 5 mL NEONATAL CONCENTRATION AMP ( 25 / BX ) 1014160 HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Vitamin K1 Injection ( Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion , USP ) is supplied as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Keep ampuls in tray until time of use .
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1141 - 2 . 0 Revised : 04 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1537 - 2 , POUCH AND AMPULE LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 51662 - 1537 - 3 , BOX LABELING [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
