Copper Tripeptide - 1 , Nicotinoyl dipeptide - 230 , sh - polypeptide - 10 , Hexapeptide - 67 Palmitate , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract PEPPLUS LIFTING UP CAPSULE Water , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Sodium Hydroxide , Glycine , Lysine , Histidine , Arginine , Aspartic Acid , Threonine , Serine , Glutamic acid , Proline , Alanine , Valine , Methionine , Isoleucine , Leucine , Tyrosine , Phenylalanine , Cyteine PEPPLUS LIFTING UP PACK Water , Carbomer , Nelumbo Nucifera Flower Extract , Jasminum Officinale ( Jasmine ) Flower / Leaf Extract , Rose Extract , Lilium Candidum Bulb Extract , Freesia Refracta Extract , Narcissus Pseudo - Narcissus ( Daffodil ) Flower Extract , Iris Versicolor Extract , Leontopodium Alpinum Flower / Leaf Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Perilla Frutescens Leaf Extract , Chrysanthellum Indicum Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Bifida Ferment Lysate , Lactobacillus / ( Lemon / Orange ) Peel Extract Ferment Filtrate , Nicotinoyl Dipeptide - 22 , Tranexamoyl Dipeptide - 22 , Lactobacillus / Collagen Ferment Filtrate , Hexapeptide - 9 , Tripeptide - 1 , Tripeptide - 29 , Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 Helps wrinkle improvement Keep out of reach of the children 1 .
Open Lifting up pack until the dotted line .
2 .
Open Lifting up capsule and mix with Lifting up pack .
( try not to spill the liquid content inside ) 3 .
Seal the package of Lifting up pack and strongly shake the package more than 10 times to mix two agents well .
( turning into gel when mixed enough ) 4 .
Apply the content over your face enough with a brush contained inside the package .
5 .
Regardless of individual difference , wait for 15 ~ 20 minutes .
( gently fan yourself while waiting ) Try not to move or speak .
6 .
For the first few times , your skin may feel strongly stretched and there is a difference in color change depending on area .
( discharge of toxin out of the skin ) Feeling of stretching may differ by individual skin condition .
7 .
After using wash your face with warm water and then use soap to cleanse your face once again .
8 .
Dry your face with a dry towel .
1 .
Do not use in the following cases ( Eczema and scalp wounds ) 2 .
Side Effects 1 ) Due to the use of this druf if rash , irritation , itching and symptopms of hypersnesitivity occur dicontinue use and consult your phamacisr or doctor 3 .
General Precautions 1 ) If in contact with the eyes , wash out thoroughty with water If the symptoms are servere , seek medical advice immediately 2 ) This product is for exeternal use only .
Do not use for internal use 4 .
Storage and handling precautions 1 ) If possible , avoid direct sunlight and store in cool and area of low humidity 2 ) In order to maintain the quality of the product and avoid misuse 3 ) Avoid placing the product near fire and store out in reach of children for external use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
