Other information Store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • diffculty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma Do not use this product • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanies by fever Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • Nasal Congestion • reduces swelling of nasal passages • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 1 mL dropperful ) Triprolidine Hydrochloride 0 . 938 mg Purpose Anitihistamine Directions Do Not exceed recommended dosage .
Use only with enclosed dropper .
Do not use with any other device .
Adults and Children 12 years of age and over 2 . 67 mL every 4 hours to 6 hours , not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours Children 6 years to under 12 years of age : 1 . 33 mL every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 4 doses in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Cotton Candy Flavor , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol , Sucralose .
Questions Comments Seek medical assistance immediately for serious side effects associated with the use of this product .
Serious side effects may be reported to this number : 866 - 991 - 9870 ( mon - Fri 8 a . m to 5 p . m EST ) Product Packaging The packaging below represents the labeling currently used .
Principal display panel and side panel for 30 mL label : NDC 15310 - 112 - 42 Triprolidine HCl Drops Alllergic Rhintis , Respiratory Allergies & Nasal Decongestant Common Cold Alcohol - Free · Dye Free · Sugar Free · · Cotton Candy Flavor Each Dropperful ( 1 mL ) contains : Triprolidine HCl , USP .......................... 0 . 938 mg Net Wt .
1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Manufactured for : Creekwood Pharmaceutical 951 Clint Moore Road , Suite A Boca Taton , FL 33487 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
