Active Ingredients : ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Purpose Guaifenesin 200 mg ..............................................
Expectorant Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 15 mg .................. Cough Suppressant Pseudoephedrine HCl 30 mg .................................. Nasal Decongestant Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive • temporary relief of cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • helps to control reflex that causes coughing Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if you are taking a prescription drug that contains a MAOI ; ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to the enlargement of the prostate gland • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous , dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Do not exceed 4 doses in 24 hours .
adults and children 12 years of age and over take 2 teaspoonful ( 10 mL ) every 6 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Other information store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursion permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Tamper evident by imprinted heat seal under cap .
Do not use if there is evidence of tampering .
Warning : Phenylketonuric : Contains 19 mg of Phenylalanine per 5 mL ( one teaspoonful ) dose .
Inactive ingredients aspartame , citric acid , glycerine , methylparaben , natural and artificial flavors , potassium citrate , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 305 - 403 - 3788 Manufactured For : Advanced Generic Corporation , Miami , Fl 33166 www . advancedgeneric . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
