Homosalate 8 % Octisalate 4 % Avobenzone 3 % Octocrylene 2 % Sunscreen • helps prevent sunburn • higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • provides high protection against sunburn • for skin highly sensitive to sunburn For external use only .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• apply liberally and generously onto clean , dry skin and rub in evenly 20 minutes prior to sun exposure • apply enough to give a visible layer before rubbing in • re - apply as needed every 1 - 2 hours , or after towel drying , swimming , or perspiring • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • sun alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing protective clothing , and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer and other harmful effects of the sun • does not provide protection for already burnt skin • every case of sunburn damages the skin permanently • does not provide 100 % protection against UV radiation • store in a cool , dry place • keep carton .
It contains important information Allantoin , Ammonium Acryloydimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Ceteareth - 20 , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Dimethicone , Cyclomethicone , Disodium EDTA , Ethyl Linoleate , Fragrance , Isostearyl Neopentanoate , Lactic Acid , Glycerin , PEG - 40 Stearate , Polypropylene , Xantham Gum , Octanohydroxamic acid , Oleyl Alcohol , Panthenol , Panthenyl Triacetate , Pentylene Glycol , Serine , Silica , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Lactate , Sorbitol , Tocopherol , Triacontanyl PVP , Urea , Water Questions or Comments ?
Toll Free 1 - 855 - 229 - ESHU Monday through Friday , 9 am - 5 pm , www . eshu . com . au What ' s in it : eshu moisturising sunscreen SPF30 + contains broad spectrum sunscreen filters to help protect the skin and Vitamin E to help moisturise it .
The scent of Eucalyptus , Citrus and Mint leaves you feeling refreshed .
How to use it : Please see the back of our box .
Remember to always take care in the sun .
After all , despite what you may think , your skin is your biggest organ so it deserves the best protection .
eshu moisturising sunscreen SPF30 + is designed for the Australian climate , the hottest , driest continent on earth , to the strictest of Australian standards .
And eshu does n't believe looking after your skin has to be expensive or complicated , so it is reasonably priced and easy to use .
No fuss .
No worries .
Just smart , effective skin care that works .
eshu - a new perspective in men ' s skincare .
\ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
