Rx only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PATIENTS UNDER THE AGE OF 17 YEARS AND NOT RECOMMENDED FOR DIAPER DERMATITIS .
DESCRIPTION Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion contains combinations of clotrimazole , a synthetic antifungal agent , and betamethasone dipropionate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Chemically , clotrimazole is 1 - ( o - chloro - α , α - diphenylbenzyl ) imidazole , with the empirical formula C22H17CIN2 , a molecular weight of 344 . 84 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clotrimazole is an odorless , white crystalline powder , insoluble in water and soluble in ethanol .
Betamethasone dipropionate has the chemical name 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 59 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Betamethasone dipropionate is a white to creamy white , odorless crystalline powder , insoluble in water .
Each gram of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion contains 10 mg clotrimazole , USP and 0 . 64 mg betamethasone dipropionate , USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in a hydrophilic base of ceteareth - 30 , cetyl alcohol , mineral oil , phosphoric acid , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , stearyl alcohol , white petrolatum ; benzyl alcohol as preservative .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is opaque and white in color .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate No comparative studies have been conducted with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion and clotrimazole alone .
Use of corticosteroids in the treatment of a fungal infection may lead to suppression of host inflammation leading to worsening or decreased cure rate .
Clotrimazole Skin penetration and systemic absorption of clotrimazole following topical application of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion have not been studied .
The following information was obtained using 1 % clotrimazole solution formulations .
Six hours after the application of radioactive clotrimazole 1 % solution onto intact and acutely inflamed skin , the concentration of clotrimazole varied from 100 mcg / cm3 in the stratum corneum , to 0 . 5 to 1 mcg / cm3 in the reticular dermis , and 0 . 1 mcg / cm3 in the subcutis .
No measurable amount of radioactivity ( < 0 . 001 mcg / mL ) was found in the serum within 48 hours after application under occlusive dressing of 0 . 5 mL of the solution .
Only 0 . 5 % or less of the applied radioactivity was excreted in the urine .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action Clotrimazole is an imidazole antifungal agent .
Imidazoles inhibit 14 - α - demethylation of lanosterol in fungi by binding to one of the cytochrome P - 450 enzymes .
This leads to the accumulation of 14 - α - methylsterols and reduced concentrations of ergosterol , a sterol essential for a normal fungal cytoplasmic membrane .
The methylsterols may affect the electron transport system , thereby inhibiting growth of fungi .
Activity In Vivo Clotrimazole has been shown to be active against most strains of the following dermatophytes , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Epidermophyton floccosum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Trichophyton rubrum .
Activity In Vitro In vitro , clotrimazole has been shown to have activity against many dermatophytes , but the clinical significance of this information is unknown .
Drug Resistance Strains of dermatophytes having a natural resistance to clotrimazole have not been reported .
Resistance to azoles including clotrimazole has been reported in some Candida species .
No single - step or multiple - step resistance to clotrimazole has developed during successive passages of Trichophyton mentagrophytes .
Betamethasone Dipropionate Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , the pharmacokinetics of topical corticosteroids are similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Studies performed with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion indicate that this topical combination antifungal / corticosteroid may have vasoconstrictor potencies in a range that is comparable to high - potency topical corticosteroids .
Therefore , use is not recommended in patients less than 17 years of age , in diaper dermatitis , and under occlusion .
CLINICAL STUDIES ( Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion ) In the treatment of tinea pedis twice daily for 4 weeks , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion was shown to be superior to vehicle in relieving symptoms of erythema , scaling , pruritus , and maceration at Week 2 .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion was also shown to have a superior mycological cure rate compared to vehicle 2 weeks after discontinuation of treatment .
It is unclear if the relief of symptoms at 2 weeks in this clinical study with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion was due to the contribution of betamethasone dipropionate , clotrimazole , or both .
In the treatment of tinea cruris twice daily for 2 weeks , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion was shown to be superior to vehicle in the relief of symptoms of erythema , scaling , and pruritus after 3 days .
It is unclear if the relief of symptoms after 3 days in this clinical study with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion was due to the contribution of betamethasone dipropionate , clotrimazole , or both .
The comparative efficacy and safety of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion versus clotrimazole alone in a lotion vehicle have not been studied in the treatment of tinea pedis or tinea cruris or tinea corporis .
The comparative efficacy and safety of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion and clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream have also not been studied .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is indicated in patients 17 years and older for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum .
Effective treatment without the risks associated with topical corticosteroid use may be obtained using a topical antifungal agent that does not contain a corticosteroid , especially for noninflammatory tinea infections .
The efficacy of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion for the treatment of infections caused by zoophilic dermatophytes ( e . g . , Microsporum canis ) has not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is contraindicated in patients who are sensitive to clotrimazole , betamethasone dipropionate , other corticosteroids or imidazoles , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and use under occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
Patients applying clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , morning plasma cortisol , and urinary - free cortisol tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
In a small study , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied using large dosages , 7 g daily for 14 days ( BID ) to the crural area of normal adult subjects .
Three of the eight normal subjects on whom clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment .
One of these subjects had an abnormal Cortrosyn test .
The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered one week after discontinuing dosing .
In addition , two separate studies in pediatric patients demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
THE SAFETY OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE LOTION HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED IN THE TREATMENT OF DIAPER DERMATITIS .
ADVERSE EVENTS CONSISTENT WITH CORTICOSTEROID USE HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE CREAM FOR DIAPER DERMATITIS .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE LOTION IN THE TREATMENT OF DIAPER DERMATITIS IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
Information for Patients Patients using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should receive the following information and instructions : • The medication is to be used as directed by the physician and is not recommended for use longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , the mouth , or intravaginally .
• This medication is to be used for the full prescribed treatment time , even though the symptoms may have improved .
Notify the physician if there is no improvement after 1 week of treatment for tinea cruris or tinea corporis , or after 2 weeks for tinea pedis .
• This medication should only be used for the disorder for which it was prescribed .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate without first talking with your physician .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , covered , or wrapped so as to be occluded ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• Any signs of local adverse reactions should be reported to your physician .
• Patients should avoid sources of infection or reinfection .
• When using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in the groin area , patients should use the medication for 2 weeks only , and apply the lotion sparingly .
Patients should wear loose - fitting clothing .
Notify the physician if the condition persists after 2 weeks .
• The safety of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion has not been demonstrated in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of response to clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion , appropriate confirmation of the diagnosis , including possible mycological studies , is indicated before instituting another course of therapy .
The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression due to the corticosteroid components : • Urinary - free cortisol test • Morning plasma cortisol test • ACTH ( cosyntropin ) stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There are no adequate laboratory animal studies with either the combination of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate or with either component individually to evaluate carcinogenesis .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Reproductive studies with betamethasone dipropionate carried out in rabbits at doses of 1 . 0 mg / kg by the intramuscular route and in mice up to 33 mg / kg by the intramuscular route indicated no impairment of fertility except for dose - related increases in fetal resorption rates in both species .
These doses are approximately 5 - and 38 - fold the maximum human dose based on body surface areas , respectively .
In a combined study of the effects of clotrimazole on fertility , teratogenicity , and postnatal development , male and female rats were dosed orally ( diet admixture ) with levels of 5 , 10 , 25 , or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 to 8 times the maximum dose in a 60 - kg adult based on body surface area ) from 10 weeks prior to mating until 4 weeks postpartum .
No adverse effects on the duration of estrous cycle , fertility , or duration of pregnancy were noted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C There have been no teratogenic studies performed in animals or humans with the combination of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered at relatively low dosage levels .
Studies in pregnant rats with intravaginal doses up to 100 mg / kg ( 15 times the maximum human dose ) revealed no evidence of fetotoxicity due to clotrimazole exposure .
No increase in fetal malformations was noted in pregnant rats receiving oral ( gastric tube ) clotrimazole doses up to 100 mg / kg / day during gestation Days 6 to 15 .
However , clotrimazole dosed at 100 mg / kg / day was embryotoxic ( increased resorptions ) , fetotoxic ( reduced fetal weights ) , and maternally toxic ( reduced body weight gain ) to rats .
Clotrimazole dosed at 200 mg / kg / day ( 30 times the maximum human dose ) was maternally lethal , and therefore fetuses were not evaluated in this group .
Also in this study , doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum human dose ) had no adverse effects on dams or fetuses .
However , in the combined fertility , teratogenicity , and postnatal development study described above , 50 mg / kg clotrimazole , was associated with reduced maternal weight gain and reduced numbers of offspring reared to 4 weeks .
Oral clotrimazole doses of 25 , 50 , 100 , and 200 mg / kg / day ( 2 to 15 times the maximum human dose ) were not teratogenic in mice .
No evidence of maternal toxicity or embryotoxicity was seen in pregnant rabbits dosed orally with 60 , 120 , or 180 mg / kg / day ( 18 to 55 times the maximum human dose ) .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately one - fifth the maximum human dose .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palates .
Betamethasone dipropionate has not been tested for teratogenic potential by the dermal route of administration .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women of the teratogenic effects of topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Adverse events consistent with corticosteroid use have been observed in patients under 12 years of age treated with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream .
In open - label studies , 17 of 43 ( 39 . 5 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 12 to 16 years old ) using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for treatment of tinea pedis demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing .
In another open - label study , 8 of 17 ( 47 . 1 % ) evaluable pediatric patients ( aged 12 to 16 years old ) using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream for treatment of tinea cruris demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE LOTION IN THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS UNDER 17 YEARS OF AGE OR PATIENTS WITH DIAPER DERMATITIS IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
Because of higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients under the age of 12 years are at a higher risk with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion .
The studies described above suggest that pediatric patients under the age of 17 years may also have this risk .
They are at increased risk of developing Cushing ' s syndrome while on treatment and adrenal insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae and growth retardation , have been reported with inappropriate use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in infants and children ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Postmarket adverse event reporting for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in patients aged 65 and above includes reports of skin atrophy and rare reports of skin ulceration .
Caution should be exercised with the use of these corticosteroid - containing topical products on thinning skin .
THE USE OF CLOTRIMAZOLE AND BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE LOTION UNDER OCCLUSION , SUCH AS IN DIAPER DERMATITIS , IS NOT RECOMMENDED .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in clinical trials were burning and dry skin in 1 . 6 % of patients and stinging in less than 1 % of patients .
The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , miliaria , capillary fragility ( ecchymoses ) , telangiectasia , and sensitization ( local reactions upon repeated application of product ) .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows : erythema , stinging , blistering , peeling , edema , pruritus , urticaria , and general irritation of the skin .
OVERDOSAGE Amounts greater than 45 mL / week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used .
Acute overdosage with topical application of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is unlikely and would not be expected to lead to a life - threatening situation .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used for longer than the prescribed time period .
Topically applied corticosteroids , such as the one contained in clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently massage sufficient clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion into the affected skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used longer than 2 weeks in the treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris , and amounts greater than 45 mL per week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used .
If a patient with tinea corporis or tinea cruris shows no clinical improvement after one week of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used longer than 4 weeks in the treatment of tinea pedis and amounts greater than 45 mL per week of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used .
If a patient with tinea pedis shows no clinical improvement after 2 weeks of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should not be used with occlusive dressings .
HOW SUPPLIED Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion is supplied in 30 - mL bottles ( NDC 51672 - 1308 - 3 ) ; box of one .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) in the upright position only ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE EACH USE .
Mfd by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc . , Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : May , 2016 PK - 2584 - 4 206 Patient Information Leaflet Patient ' s Instructions for Use Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion SHAKE LOTION WELL BEFORE EACH USE Rx only What is clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ?
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is a medication used on the skin to treat fungal infections of the feet , groin , and body , as diagnosed by your doctor .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should be used for fungal infections that are inflamed and have symptoms of redness and / or itching .
Talk to your doctor if your fungal infection does not have these symptoms .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion contains a corticosteroid .
Notify your doctor if you notice side effects with the use of clotrimazole betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( see " What are the possible side effects of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ? "
below ) .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is not to be used in the eyes , in the mouth , or in the vagina .
How does clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion work ?
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is a combination of an antifungal agent ( clotrimazole ) and a corticosteroid ( betamethasone dipropionate ) .
Clotrimazole works against fungus .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , is used to help relieve redness , swelling , itching , and other discomforts of fungal infections .
Who should NOT use clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ?
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is not recommended for use in patients under the age of 17 years .
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is not recommended for use in diaper rash .
Patients who are sensitive to clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate , other corticosteroids or imidazoles , or any ingredients in the preparation should not use clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion .
How should I use clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ?
Gently massage sufficient clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day , in the morning and evening .
Treatment for 2 weeks on the groin or on the body , and for 4 weeks on the feet is recommended .
The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion for longer than 4 weeks is not recommended for any condition .
Prolonged use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion may lead to unwanted side effects .
What other important information should I know about clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ?
• 1 ) This medication is to be used for the full prescribed treatment time , even though the symptoms may have improved .
Notify your doctor if there is no improvement after 1 week of treatment on the groin or body or after 2 weeks on the feet .
• 2 ) This medication should only be used for the disorder for which it was prescribed .
• 3 ) The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped .
• 4 ) Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion without first talking with your physician .
• 5 ) Any signs of side effects where clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is applied should be reported to your doctor .
• 6 ) When using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in the groin area , it is especially important to use the medication for 2 weeks only , and to apply the lotion sparingly .
You should tell your doctor if your problem persists after 2 weeks .
You should also wear loose - fitting clothing so as to avoid tightly covering the area where clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion is applied .
• 7 ) This medication is not recommended for use in diaper rash .
What are the possible side effects of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion ?
The following side effects have been reported with topical corticosteroid medications : itching , irritation , dryness , infection of the hair follicles , increased hair , acne , fragile blood vessels , spider veins , sensitization ( local reactions upon repeated application of product ) , change in skin color , allergic skin reaction , skin thinning , and stretch marks .
Hormone imbalance ( adrenal suppression ) was demonstrated in clinical studies in children .
Can clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion be used if I am pregnant or plan to become pregnant or if I am nursing ?
Before using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion , tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Also , tell your doctor if you are nursing .
How should clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion be stored ?
Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion should be stored at 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ to 77 ˚ F ) in the upright position only ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Shake well before using clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion .
General advice about prescription medicines This medicine was prescribed for your particular condition .
Only use clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion to treat the condition for which your doctor has prescribed .
Do not give clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion to other people .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion that is written for health professionals .
Mfd by : Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Brampton , Ontario , Canada L6T 1C1 Dist .
by : Taro Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Hawthorne , NY 10532 Revised : May , 2016 PK - 2584 - 4 206 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Carton 30 mL NDC 51672 - 1308 - 3 Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion DO NOT USE IN EYES FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PATIENTS UNDER THE AGE OF 17 YEARS AND NOT RECOMMENDED FOR DIAPER DERMATITIS .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Rx only TARO [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
