1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of itching associated with signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis .
Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution into the affected eye ( s ) twice a day .
Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
• • Instill one drop into the affected eye ( s ) twice a day .
( 2 ) • • Remove contact lenses prior to instillation of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing bepotastine besilate 15 mg / mL ( 1 . 5 % ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing bepotastine besilate , 15 mg / mL ( 1 . 5 % ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to bepotastine or any of the other ingredients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Contamination of Solution : Do not touch the dropper tip to any surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Contact Lens Wear : Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Contamination of Tip and Solution To minimize contaminating the dropper tip and solution , advise the patient not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle and to keep the bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Contact Lens Wear Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution should not be used to treat contact lens - related irritation .
Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution should not be instilled while wearing contact lenses .
Patient should remove contact lenses prior to instillation of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , because benzalkonium chloride may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Lenses may be reinserted after 10 minutes following administration of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction occurring in approximately 25 % of patients was a mild taste following instillation .
Other adverse reactions which occurred in 2 - 5 % of subjects were eye irritation , headache , and nasopharyngitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The most common reported adverse reaction occurring in approximately 25 % of subjects was a mild taste following instillation .
Other adverse reactions occurring in 2 - 5 % of subjects were eye irritation , headache , and nasopharyngitis .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely during the post - marketing use of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The hypersensitivity reactions may include itching , body rash , and swelling of lips , tongue and / or throat .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available human data for the use of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution during pregnancy to inform any drug - associated risks .
Oral administration of bepotastine besilate to pregnant rats or rabbits during organogenesis or during the pre / postnatal period did not produce adverse embryofetal or offspring effects at clinically relevant systemic exposures .
Maternal toxicity was observed in the rabbits at the lowest dose administered , 20 mg / kg / day ( 215 times the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose , RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 to 4 % , and of miscarriage is 15 to 20 % , of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data In embryofetal development studies , oral administration of bepotastine besilate to pregnant rabbits throughout organogenesis did not produce teratogenic effects at maternal doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 , 400 times the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A maternal no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was not identified in this study due to spontaneous abortion observed at the lowest dose tested , 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 215 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Oral administration of bepotastine besilate to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis produced skeletal anomalies at 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 , 400 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) , a dose that also produced maternal toxicity and lethality .
No teratogenic effects were observed in rats at maternal doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( corresponding to an estimated blood plasma concentration 3 , 300 times higher than that anticipated in humans at the maximum RHOD ) .
A maternal NOAEL was observed at 10 mg / kg / day ( 54 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Following a single 3 mg / kg oral dose in rats ( 16 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) , the concentration of radio - labeled bepotastine besilate was similar in fetal liver and maternal blood plasma .
The concentration in other fetal tissues was one - third to one - tenth the concentration in maternal blood plasma .
In a pre / postnatal development study , oral administration of bepotastine besilate to rats during the perinatal and lactation periods produced an increase in stillbirths and decreased growth and development in offspring at a maternal dose of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 , 400 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There were no observed adverse effects on offspring of rats treated with 100 mg / kg / day ( 540 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Effects on parturition and maternal lethality were observed at 100 mg / kg / day and 1 , 000 mg / kg / day , respectively .
A maternal NOAEL was observed at 10 mg / kg / day ( 54 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered , along with the mother ’ s clinical need for Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
Animal Data Following a single 3 mg / kg oral dose ( 16 times the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) of radio - labeled bepotastine besilate to nursing rats 11 days after delivery , the maximum concentration of radioactivity in milk was 0 . 40 mcg - eq / mL 1 hour after administration ; at 48 hours after administration , the radioactivity concentration was below detection limits .
The milk radioactivity concentration was higher than the maternal blood plasma radioactivity concentration at each time of measurement .
It is not known whether bepotastine besilate would be present in maternal milk following topical ocular administration .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % have not been established in pediatric patients under 2 years of age .
Efficacy in pediatric patients under 10 years of age was extrapolated from clinical trials conducted in pediatric patients greater than 10 years of age and from adults .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % is a sterile , topically administered drug for ophthalmic use .
Each mL of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution contains 15 mg bepotastine besilate .
Bepotastine besilate is designated chemically as ( + ) - 4 - [ [ ( S ) - p - chloro - alpha - 2 - pyridylbenzyl ] oxy ] - 1 - piperidine butyric acid monobenzenesulfonate .
The chemical structure for bepotastine besilate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bepotastine besilate is a white to pale yellowish - white crystalline powder .
The molecular weight of bepotastine besilate is 547 . 06 daltons .
Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution is supplied as a sterile , aqueous 1 . 5 % solution , with an approximate pH of 6 . 8 .
The osmolality of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % is approximately 295 mOsm / kg .
Each mL of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % contains : • • Active : bepotastine besilate 15 mg ( equivalent to 10 . 7 mg bepotastine ) • • Inactives : monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide to adjust pH , and water for injection , USP • • Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 005 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bepotastine is a topically active , direct H1 - receptor antagonist and an inhibitor of the release of histamine from mast cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : The extent of systemic exposure to bepotastine following topical ophthalmic administration of bepotastine besilate 1 % and 1 . 5 % ophthalmic solutions was evaluated in 12 healthy adults .
Following one drop of 1 % or 1 . 5 % bepotastine besilate ophthalmic solution to both eyes four times daily ( QID ) for 7 days , bepotastine plasma concentrations peaked at approximately 1 to 2 hours post - instillation .
Maximum plasma concentrations for the 1 % and 1 . 5 % strengths were 5 . 1 ± 2 . 5 ng / mL and 7 . 3 ± 1 . 9 ng / mL , respectively .
Plasma concentrations at 24 hours post - instillation were below the quantifiable limit ( 2 ng / mL ) in 11 / 12 subjects in the two dose groups .
Distribution : The extent of protein binding of bepotastine is approximately 55 % and independent of bepotastine concentration .
Metabolism : In vitro metabolism studies with human liver microsomes demonstrated that bepotastine is minimally metabolized by CYP450 isozymes .
In vitro studies demonstrated that bepotastine besilate does not inhibit the metabolism of various cytochrome P450 substrates via inhibition of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
The effect of bepotastine besilate on the metabolism of substrates of CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , and CYP2D6 was not studied .
Bepotastine besilate has a low potential for drug interaction via inhibition of CYP3A4 , CYP2C9 , and CYP2C19 .
Excretion : The main route of elimination of bepotastine besilate is urinary excretion ( with approximately 75 - 90 % excreted unchanged in urine ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term dietary studies in mice and rats were conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bepotastine besilate .
Bepotastine besilate did not significantly induce neoplasms in mice receiving a nominal dose of up to 200 mg / kg / day for 21 months , or in rats receiving a nominal dose of up to 97 mg / kg / day for 24 months .
These dose levels correspond to systemic exposures approximately 350 and 200 times higher than that achieved at the RHOD , respectively .
The no observable adverse effect level for bepotastine besilate based on nominal dose levels in carcinogenicity tests were 18 . 7 to 19 . 9 mg / kg / day in mice and 9 . 6 to 9 . 8 mg / kg / day in rats ( corresponding to systemic exposures approximately 60 and 20 times higher than that anticipated in humans at RHOD , respectively ) .
Mutagenesis There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the Ames test ( mutagenicity ) , in CHO cells ( chromosome aberration ) , in mouse hepatocytes ( unscheduled DNA synthesis ) , or in the mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility Oral administration of bepotastine to male and female rats at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 5 , 400 times higher than the maximum RHOD , on a mg / m2 basis ) resulted in reduction in fertility index and surviving fetuses .
Oral administration of bepotastine besilate produced no observed adverse effects on fertility or reproduction in rats at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( corresponding to an estimated blood plasma concentration 3 , 300 times higher than that anticipated in humans at the RHOD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical efficacy was evaluated in two conjunctival allergen challenge ( CAC ) studies ( 237 patients ) .
Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % was more effective than its vehicle for relieving ocular itching induced by an ocular allergen challenge , both at a CAC 15 minutes post - dosing and a CAC 8 hours post - dosing of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution .
The safety of Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution was evaluated in a randomized clinical study of 861 subjects over a period of 6 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution , 1 . 5 % is supplied in a white low density polyethylene bottle with a sterile linear low density polyethylene controlled dropper tip and a white polypropylene cap in the following sizes : NDC 82260 - 630 - 05 5 mL Bottle NDC 82260 - 630 - 10 10 mL Bottle Storage : Store at 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Sterility of Dropper Tip • Advise patients not to touch the dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution and to keep the bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA Under license from : Senju Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Osaka , Japan 541 - 0046 U . S . Patent Numbers : 8 , 784 , 789 and 8 , 877 , 168 © 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9751301 ( folded ) 9751401 ( flat ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 82260 - 630 - 05 Bepotastine Besilate Ophthalmic Solution 1 . 5 % Sterile FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only 5 mL BAUSCH + LOMB 9751001 MA52107 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
