WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin - associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio , and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . , carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the full prescribing information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age ≥ 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Starting dose : 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal ( 2 . 1 ) • • Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg every 1 to 2 weeks , up to a maximum of 2 , 000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Patients receiving metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) tablets may be switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2 , 000 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole and never crush , cut or chew .
( 2 . 1 ) Renal Impairment : • • Prior to initiation , assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
( 2 . 2 ) • oDo not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• oInitiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• oAssess risk / benefit of continuing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if eGFR falls below 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• oDiscontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures : • • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Adult Dosage and Administration • • The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal .
• • Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg every 1 to 2 weeks on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability , up to a maximum of 2 , 000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
• • Patients receiving metformin hydrochloride ( HCl ) may be switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2 , 000 mg once daily .
• • Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole and never crush , cut or chew .
• • If a dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is missed , instruct patients not to take two doses the same day and to resume their usual dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with the next schedule dose .
2 . 2 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment • • Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and periodically thereafter .
• • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• • Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 is not recommended .
• • In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy .
• • Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if the patient ’ s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release is available as : • • Extended - release tablets : USP , 500 mg white to off - white , film coated , oval - shaped tablets with “ 618 ” on one side .
• • Extended - release tablets : USP , 1 , 000 mg white to off - white , film coated , oval - shaped tablets with “ 619 ” on one side .
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended Release Tablets : 500 mg and 1 , 000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • • Severe renal impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Known hypersensitivity to metformin .
• • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
• • Severe renal impairment : ( eGFR below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 ) ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to metformin ( 4 ) • • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Lactic Acidosis : See boxed warning .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Vitamin B12 Deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Monitor hematological parameters annually and vitamin B12 at 2 to 3 year intervals and manage any abnormalities .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues : Increased risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue .
Lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels were generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin HCl is dialyzable , with a clearance of up to 170 mL / minute under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : • • Renal Impairment : The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
• The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ’ s renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : • • Before initiating metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
• • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• • Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
• • Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
• • In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
• • Drug Interactions : The concomitant use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance or increase metformin accumulation [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Therefore , consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
• • Age 65 or Greater : The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ’ s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
• • Radiological Studies with Contrast : Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable .
• • Surgery and Other Procedures : Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension and renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
• • Hypoxic States : Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • Excessive Alcohol Intake : Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism , and this may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Vitamin B12 Deficiency In clinical trials of 29 - week duration with metformin HCl tablets , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , may be associated with anemia but appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters on an annual basis and vitamin B12 at 2 to 3 year intervals in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and manage any abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Insulin and insulin secretagogues ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) are known to cause hypoglycemia .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue .
Therefore , a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Lactic Acidosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Vitamin B12 Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions occurring > 5 % in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets clinical trials : hypoglycemia , diarrhea , and nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials conducted in the U . S . , over 1 , 000 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have been treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 to 2 , 000 mg / day in active - controlled and placebo - controlled studies with the 500 mg dosage form .
In the add - on to sulfonylurea study , patients receiving background glyburide therapy were randomized to receive add - on treatment of either one of three different regimens of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or placebo .
In total , 431 patients received metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide and 144 patients received placebo and glyburide .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that were more common in the combined metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide group than in the placebo and glyburide group are shown in Table 1 .
In 0 . 7 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and glyburide , diarrhea was responsible for discontinuation of study medication compared to no patients in the placebo and glyburide group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported by > 5 % [ 1 ] of Patients for the Combined Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Groups Versus Placebo GroupAdverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo + Glyburide ( n = 431 ) + Glyburide ( n = 144 ) Hypoglycemia 14 % 5 % Diarrhea 13 % 6 % Nausea 7 % 4 % [ 1 ] Adverse reactions that were more common in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - treated than in the placebo - treated patients .
Laboratory Tests Vitamin B12 Concentrations In clinical trials of 29 - week duration with metformin HCl tablets , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury have been reported with postmarketing use of metformin .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 presents clinically significant drug interactions with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Table 2 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release TabletsCarbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Intervention : Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Examples : Topiramate , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide .
Drugs that Reduce Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Clearance Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Examples : Ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine .
Alcohol Clinical Impact : Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Intervention : Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are .
Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact : Coadministration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin .
Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact : Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
Intervention : When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia .
Examples : Thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blockers , and isoniazid .
• • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring .
( 7 ) • • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance ( such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) may increase the accumulation of metformin .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
( 7 ) • • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy .
( 8 . 3 ) • • Geriatric Use : Assess renal function more frequently .
( 8 . 5 ) • • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage .
Published studies with metformin use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defect or miscarriage risk [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when metformin was administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 3 and 1 times , respectively , a 2 , 000 mg clinical dose , based on body surface area [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 – 10 % in women with pregestational diabetes mellitus with an HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 – 25 % in women with an HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes mellitus in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , stillbirth and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes mellitus increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from post - marketing studies have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when metformin was used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any metformin - associated risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Metformin HCl was not teratogenic or embyrolethal when administered to rats prior to pregnancy through the period of organogenesis at doses up to 900 mg / kg , or when administered to rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 90 mg / kg .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published studies report that metformin is present in human milk [ see Data ] .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of metformin on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of metformin on milk production .
Therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Published clinical lactation studies report that metformin is present in human milk which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 11 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 13 and 1 .
However , the studies were not designed to definitely establish the risk of use of metformin during lactation because of small sample size and limited adverse event data collected in infants .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as therapy with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may result in ovulation in some anovulatory women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in severe renal impairment , patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin HCl has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / minute under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
11 DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets contain the biguanide antihyperglycemic agent metformin in the form of monohydrochloride salt .
The chemical name of metformin hydrochloride is N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP , contain 500 mg or 1 , 000 mg of metformin hydrochloride , USP , which is equivalent to 389 . 93 mg or 779 . 86 mg metformin .
Each 500 mg tablet contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide non - irradiated , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , glyceryl dibehenate , hypromellose , poly ( vinyl acetate ) dispersion 30 percent , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol - part .
hydrolyzed , povidone , shellac glaze ( modieied ) in SD - 45 , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Each 1 , 000 mg tablet contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide non - irradiated , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , glyceryl dibehenate , hypromellose , poly ( vinyl acetate ) dispersion 30 percent , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol - part .
hydrolyzed , povidone , shellac glaze ( modieied ) in SD - 45 , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
FDA approved dissolution test specifications differ from USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metformin is a biguanide that improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may decrease .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single oral dose of 1 , 000 mg ( 2x500 mg tablets ) metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets after a meal , the time to reach maximum plasma metformin concentration ( Tmax ) is achieved at approximately 7 - 8 hours .
In both single - and multiple - dose studies in healthy subjects , once daily 1 , 000 mg ( 2x500 mg tablets ) dosing provides equivalent systemic exposure , as measured by area under the curve ( AUC ) , and up to 35 % higher Cmax , of metformin relative to the immediate - release given as 500 mg twice daily .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 - 48 hours and are generally < 1 mcg / mL .
In a two - way , single - dose , crossover study in healthy volunteers , the 1 , 000 mg tablet was found to be similar to two 500 mg tablets under fed conditions based on equivalent Cmax and AUCs for the two formulations .
Single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets from 500 mg to 2 , 500 mg resulted in less than proportional increase in both AUC and Cmax .
Effect of food : Low - fat and high - fat meals increased the systemic exposure ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets by about 38 % and 73 % , respectively , relative to fasting .
Both meals prolonged metformin Tmax by approximately 3 hours but Cmax was not affected .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of 850 mg metformin HCl averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
Metabolism Intravenous , single - dose studies in healthy subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) , nor biliary excretion .
Excretion Renal clearance is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Renal Impairment Following a single - dose administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment , the oral and renal clearance of metformin were decreased by 33 % and 50 % and 16 % and 53 % , respectively .
Metformin peak and systemic exposure was 27 % and 61 % greater , respectively in subjects with mild renal impairment and 74 % and 2 . 36 - fold greater in subjects with moderate renal impairment as compared to healthy subjects .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Hepatic Impairment No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have been conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment , [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin HCl in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased by 35 % , the half - life is prolonged by 64 % and Cmax is increased by 76 % , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Gender In the pharmacokinetic studies in healthy volunteers , there were no important differences between male and female subjects with respect to metformin AUC and t1 / 2 .
However , Cmax for metformin was 40 % higher in female subjects as compared to males .
In controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin HCl tablets was comparable in males and females .
The gender differences for Cmax are unlikely to be clinically important .
Race A trend towards 10 % higher metformin Cmax and AUC values for metformin are obtained in Asian subjects when compared to Caucasian , Hispanic and Black subjects .
The differences between the Asian and Caucasian groups are unlikely to be clinically important .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin HCl in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
Pediatrics There are no available pharmacokinetic data with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients .
Drug Interactions Specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been performed except for one with glyburide .
However , such studies have been performed on metformin HCl tablets .
Table 3 : Effect of Coadministered Drug on Plasma Metformin Systemic ExposureCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 3 ] 0 . 98 [ 4 ] 0 . 99 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 09 null 1 . 22 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 05 null 1 . 07 null Cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion may increase the accumulation of metformin : [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis : [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Topiramate 100 mg [ 5 ] 500 mg null 1 . 25 null 1 . 17 [ 1 ] All metformin HCl and coadministered drugs were given as single doses .
[ 2 ] AUC = AUC0 - inf [ 3 ] Metformin HCl extended - release tablets 500 mg [ 4 ] Ratio of arithmetic means [ 5 ] At steady state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours ; AUC = AUC0 - 12 h Table 4 : Effect of Metformin on Coadministered Drug Systemic ExposureCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Dose of Metformin HCl null Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No effect = 1 . 00 AUC [ 2 ] Cmax No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 500 mg [ 3 ] 0 . 78 [ 4 ] 0 . 63 null Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg 0 . 87 null 0 . 69 null Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg 1 . 10 null 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg 1 . 01 null 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 97 [ 5 ] 1 . 01 null Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg 0 . 95 null 1 . 01 [ 1 ] All metformin HCl and coadministered drugs were given as single doses .
[ 2 ] AUC = AUC0 – inf unless otherwise noted [ 3 ] AUC0 - 24 hr reported [ 4 ] Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 [ 5 ] Ratio of arithmetic means 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 150 , 300 , and 450 mg / kg / day in males and 150 , 450 , 900 , and 1 , 200 mg / kg / day in females .
These doses are approximately 2 , 4 , and 8 times in males , and 3 , 7 , 12 , and 16 times in females of the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2 , 000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female rats .
A carcinogenicity study was also performed in Tg . AC transgenic mice at doses up to 2 , 000 mg applied dermally .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was observed in male or female mice .
Genotoxicity assessments in the Ames test , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) and in vivo mouse micronucleus tests were negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was not affected by metformin when administered at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a multicenter , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled , dose - ranging , parallel group study conducted in patients type 2 diabetes mellitus , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1 , 000 mg in the evening ) , and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily were compared to immediate - release metformin HCl tablets 1 , 500 mg per day in divided doses ( 500 mg in the morning and 1 , 000 mg in the evening ) .
This study included patients ( n = 338 ) who were newly diagnosed with diabetes , patients treated only with diet and exercise , patients treated with a single antidiabetic medication ( sulfonylureas , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , thiazolidinediones , or meglitinides ) , and patients ( n = 368 ) receiving metformin HCl tablets up to 1 , 500 mg / day plus a sulfonylurea at a dose equal to or less than one - half the maximum dose .
Patients who were enrolled on monotherapy or combination antidiabetic therapy underwent a 6 - week washout .
Patients randomized to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets began titration from 1 , 000 mg / day up to their assigned treatment dose over 3 weeks .
Patients randomized to immediate - release metformin initiated 500 mg twice daily for 1 week followed by 500 mg with breakfast and 1 , 000 mg with dinner for the second week .
The 3 - week treatment period was followed by an additional 21 - week period at the randomized dose .
The results are presented in Table 4 .
Table 5 : Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA1c and Fasting Plasma Glucose at Week 24 Comparing Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets versus Metformin HCl Tablets [ 1 ] in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Metformin HCl Tablets1 , 500 mg in Divided Doses ( n = 174 ) 1 , 500 mg Once Daily ( n = 178 ) 1 , 500 mg in Divided Doses ( n = 182 ) 2 , 000 mg Once Daily ( n = 172 ) HbA1c ( % ) , N 169 175 159 170 Baseline 8 . 2 8 . 5 8 . 3 8 . 7 Mean Change at Final Visit - 0 . 7 - 0 . 7 - 1 . 1 - 0 . 7 Mean Difference from Metformin HCl Tablets null ( 98 . 4 % CI ) 0 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 3 ) 0 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 3 ) - 0 . 4 ( - 0 , 7 , - 0 . 1 ) N / A Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) , N 175 179 170 172 Baseline 190 192 . 3 184 197 Mean Change at Final Visit - 39 - 32 - 42 - 32 Mean Difference from Metformin HCl Tablets null ( 95 % CI ) - 6 ( - 15 , 2 ) 0 ( - 8 , 9 ) - 10 ( - 19 , - 1 ) N / A [ 1 ] Immediate - release metformin HCl tablets Mean baseline body weight was 88 . 2 kg , 90 . 5 kg , 87 . 7 kg and 88 . 7 kg in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily and metformin HCl tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 24 was - 0 . 9 kg , - 0 . 7 kg , - 1 . 1 kg , and - 0 . 9 kg in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily and metformin HCl tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses arms , respectively .
A double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled ( glyburide add - on ) multicenter study enrolled patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were newly diagnosed or treated with diet and exercise ( n = 144 ) , or who were receiving monotherapy with metformin , sulfonylureas , alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , thiazolidinediones , or meglitinides , or treated with combination therapy consisting of metformin HCl / glyburide at doses up to 1 , 000 mg metformin + 10 mg glyburide per day ( or equivalent doses of glipizide or glimepiride up to half the maximum therapeutic dose ) ( n = 431 ) .
All patients were stabilized on glyburide for a 6 - week run - in period , and then randomized to 1 of 4 treatments : placebo + glyburide ( glyburide alone ) ; metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once a day + glyburide , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once a day + glyburide , or metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 000 mg twice a day + glyburide .
A 3 - week metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets titration period was followed by a 21 - week maintenance treatment period .
Use of insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents other than the study drugs were prohibited .
The results are presented in Table 5 .
Table 6 : Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA1c and Fasting Plasma Glucose at Week 24 for the Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + Glyburide Groups and Placebo + Glyburide Treatment Group in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets + Glyburide [ 1 ] Placebo / Glyburide null 1 , 500 mg Once Daily ( n = 144 ) 1 , 000 mg Twice Daily ( n = 141 ) 2 , 000 mg Once Daily ( n = 146 ) ( n = 144 ) HbA1c ( % ) , N 136 136 144 141 Baseline 7 . 9 7 . 8 7 . 7 8 . 1 Mean Change at Final Visit - 0 . 7 - 0 . 8 - 0 . 7 - 0 . 1 Mean Difference from Glyburide Alone ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 8 [ 2 ] ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ) - 0 . 9 null ( - 1 . 1 , - 0 . 7 ) - 0 . 8 null ( - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 ) N / A Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) , N 143 141 145 144 Baseline 163 163 159 164 Mean Change at Final Visit - 14 - 16 - 9 16 Mean Difference from Glyburide Alone ( 95 % CI ) - 29 . 2 null ( - 39 , - 20 ) - 31 . 2 null ( - 41 , - 22 ) - 24 . 9 null ( - 35 , - 15 ) N / A [ 1 ] Glyburide was administered as 10 mg at breakfast and 5 mg at dinner .
[ 2 ] p - value for pairwise comparison < 0 . 001 Mean baseline body weight was 89 . 4 kg , 103 . 7 kg , 102 . 9 kg and 95 . 6 kg in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily and metformin HCl tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 24 was 0 . 3 kg , 0 . 1 kg , 0 kg , and 0 . 7 kg in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg once daily , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2 , 000 mg once daily and metformin HCl tablets 1 , 500 mg in divided doses arms , respectively .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP , are supplied as : 500 mg Bottles of 100 with child - resistant closure NDC 43547 - 503 - 10 white to off - white , film coated , oval - shaped tablets with “ 618 ” on one side .
Bottles of 500 NDC 43547 - 503 - 50 1 , 000 mg Bottles of 90 with child - resistant closure NDC 43547 - 504 - 09 white to off - white , film coated , oval - shaped tablets with “ 619 ” on one side .
Bottles of 500 NDC 43547 - 504 - 50 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Lactic Acidosis : Explain the risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development .
Advise patients to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately and to promptly notify their healthcare provider if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgias , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Counsel patients against excessive alcohol intake and inform patients about importance of regular testing of renal function while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia may occur when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are coadministered with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
Explain to patients receiving concomitant therapy the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Vitamin B12 Deficiency : Inform patients about importance of regular hematological parameters while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Age : Inform females that treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women which may lead to unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Administration Information : Inform patients that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed , cut , or chewed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet .
Dispense with Patient Information available at : www . solcohealthcare . com / medguide / metformin - hcl - er - tablets . pdf Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Revised : 05 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION Metformin Hydrochloride Eextended - Release Tablets , USP , for oral use ( met for ’ min hye ’’ droe klor ’ ide ) What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects , including : Lactic acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride , the medicine in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , can cause a rare , but serious side effect called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactic acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and call your doctor right away if you get any of the following symptoms of lactic acidosis : • • feel very weak and tired • • have unusual sleepiness or sleep longer than usual • • have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • • have trouble breathing • • feel dizzy or lightheaded • • have unexplained stomach or intestinal problems with nausea and vomiting , or diarrhea • • have a slow or irregular heartbeat You have a higher chance of getting lactic acidosis if you : • • have severe kidney problems .
See “ Do not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you ” • • have liver problems .
• • drink a lot of alcohol ( very often or short - term " binge " drinking ) .
• • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• • have certain x - ray tests with injectable dyes or contrast agents .
• • have surgery or other procedure for which you need to restrict the amount of food and liquid you eat and drink .
• • have congestive heart failure .
• • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke .
• • are 65 years of age or older .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Tell your doctor that you are taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets before you have surgery or x - ray tests .
Your doctor may need to stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a while if you have surgery or certain x - ray tests .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can have other serious side effects .
See “ What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
.
What are metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are a prescription medicine that contains metformin hydrochloride .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used with diet and exercise to help control high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) in adults with type 2 diabetes .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are safe and effective in children .
Do not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • • have severe kidney problems .
• • are allergic to metformin hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • have a condition called metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis ( high levels of certain acids called “ ketones ” in your blood or urine ) .
Before taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have a history or risk for diabetic ketoacidosis .
See “ Do not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : ” .
• • have kidney problems .
• • have liver problems .
• • have heart problems , including congestive heart failure .
• • are 65 years of age or older .
• • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term “ binge ” drinking .
• • are taking insulin or a sulfonylurea medicine .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can harm your unborn baby .
If you are pregnant , talk with your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant .
• • are a woman who has not gone through menopause ( premenopausal ) who does not have periods regularly or at all .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause the release of an egg from an ovary in a woman ( ovulation ) .
This can increase your chance of getting pregnant .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Metformin hydrochloride can pass into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby while you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist .
Talk to your doctor before you start any new medicine .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work .
How should I take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• • Take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as your doctor tells you .
• • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken 1 time each day with your evening meal to help decrease an upset stomach .
• • Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
Do not crush , cut , or chew the tablets .
• • You may sometimes pass a soft mass in your stools ( bowel movement ) that looks like metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This is normal and will not affect the way metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work .
• • When your body is under some type of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection , or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine that you need may change .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these problems .
• • Your doctor should do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • Your doctor will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A1C .
• • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can happen more often when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are taken with certain other diabetes medicines .
Talk to your doctor about how to prevent , recognize , and manage low blood sugar .
See “ What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
.
• • Check your blood sugar as your doctor tells you to .
• • Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• • If you miss a dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , take your next dose at the normal schedule .
Do not take 2 doses of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets on the same day .
If you take too many metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • • See “ What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
.
• • Low vitamin B12 ( vitamin B12 deficiency ) .
Using metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may cause a decrease in the amount of vitamin B12 in your blood , especially if you have had low vitamin B12 levels before .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check your vitamin B12 levels .
• • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Low blood sugar is a serious , but common , side effect of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
If you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with another medicine that can cause low blood sugar , such as sulfonylureas or insulin , you have a higher risk of getting low blood sugar .
The dose of your sulfonylurea medicine or insulin may need to be lowered while you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include : • oheadache • ohunger • odizziness • odrowsiness • ofast heartbeat • osweating • oweakness • oconfusion • oirritability • oshaking or feeling jittery The most common side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets include : • • diarrhea • • nausea These are not all of the possible side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets come in a child - resistant package .
• • Store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Active Ingredient : metformin hydrochloride , USP Inactive Ingredient : 500 mg tablet : ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide non - irradiated , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , glyceryl dibehenate , hypromellose , poly ( vinyl acetate ) dispersion 30 percent , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol - part .
hydrolyzed , povidone , shellac glaze ( modieied ) in SD - 45 , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
1 , 000 mg tablet : ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide non - irradiated , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , glyceryl dibehenate , hypromellose , poly ( vinyl acetate ) dispersion 30 percent , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol - part .
hydrolyzed , povidone , shellac glaze ( modieied ) in SD - 45 , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA For more information , call Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 11 / 2019 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label - 500 mg - 100 tablets Rx only NDC 43547 - 503 - 10 Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP Each extended - release tablet contains : 500 mg metformin hydrochloride , USP .
Usual Dosage : See package insert for prescribing information .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
This package is child - resistant .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Product of China .
Rev . : 05 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Container Label - 1 , 000 mg - 90 tablets Rx only NDC 43547 - 504 - 09 Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP Each extended - release tablet contains : 1 , 000 mg metformin hydrochloride , USP .
Usual Dosage : See package insert for prescribing information .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
This package is child - resistant .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Product of China .
Rev . : 05 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
