• Contraindications , Malignant Neoplasia ( 4 ) 12 / 2019 • Warnings and Precautions , Malignant Neoplasia ( 5 . 7 ) 12 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INCRELEX ( mecasermin ) injection is indicated for the treatment of growth failure in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with severe primary IGF - 1 deficiency or with growth hormone ( GH ) gene deletion who have developed neutralizing antibodies to GH .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of use : INCRELEX is not a substitute to GH for approved GH indications .
Severe Primary IGF - 1 Deficiency ( Primary IGFD ) INCRELEX is indicated for the treatment of growth failure in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with : • severe primary IGF - 1 deficiency or • growth hormone ( GH ) gene deletion who have developed neutralizing antibodies to GH .
Severe Primary IGF - 1 deficiency ( IGFD ) is defined by : • height standard deviation score ≤ – 3 . 0 and • basal IGF - 1 standard deviation score ≤ – 3 . 0 and • normal or elevated growth hormone ( GH ) .
Limitations of use : INCRELEX is not a substitute to GH for approved GH indications .
INCRELEX is not indicated for use in patients with secondary forms of IGF - 1 deficiency , such as GH deficiency , malnutrition , hypothyroidism , or chronic treatment with pharmacologic doses of anti - inflammatory corticosteroids .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • INCRELEX should be administered subcutaneously .
( 2 . 2 ) • Injection sites should be rotated to avoid lipohypertrophy .
( 2 . 2 ) • Recommended starting dose : 0 . 04 to 0 . 08 mg / kg ( 40 to 80 micrograms / kg ) twice daily .
If well - tolerated for at least one week , the dose may be increased by 0 . 04 mg / kg per dose , to the maximum dose of 0 . 12 mg / kg given twice daily .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage • Treatment with INCRELEX should be supervised by a physician who is experienced in the diagnosis and management of pediatric patients with short stature associated with severe primary IGF - 1 deficiency or with growth hormone gene deletion and who have developed neutralizing antibodies to growth hormone .
• The dosage of INCRELEX should be individualized for each patient .
The recommended starting dose of INCRELEX is 0 . 04 to 0 . 08 mg / kg ( 40 to 80 micrograms / kg ) twice daily by subcutaneous injection .
If well - tolerated for at least one week , the dose may be increased by 0 . 04 mg / kg per dose , to the maximum dose of 0 . 12 mg / kg given twice daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 and 5 . 7 ) ] .
• Preprandial glucose monitoring is recommended at treatment initiation and until a well - tolerated dose is established .
If frequent symptoms of hypoglycemia or severe hypoglycemia occur , preprandial glucose monitoring should continue .
If hypoglycemia occurs with recommended doses despite adequate food intake , the dose should be reduced .
INCRELEX should be administered shortly before or after ( ± 20 minutes ) a meal or snack .
If the patient is unable to eat shortly before or after a dose for any reason , that dose of INCRELEX should be withheld .
• If one or more doses of INCRELEX is missed , do not increase the subsequent doses to make up for omitted doses .
2 . 2 Administration INCRELEX is administered by subcutaneous injection only .
Do not administer intravenously .
INCRELEX injection sites should be rotated to a different site ( upper arm , thigh , buttock or abdomen ) with each injection to help prevent lipohypertrophy .
INCRELEX should be administered using sterile disposable syringes and needles .
The syringes should be of small enough volume so that the prescribed dose can be withdrawn from the vial with accuracy .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
If using syringes that measure dose in units , doses in mg / kg must be converted to units using the following formula : Weight ( kg ) × Dose ( mg / kg ) × 1 mL / 10 mg × 100 units / 1 mL = units / injection .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS INCRELEX is a sterile solution available at a concentration of 10 mg per mL ( 40 mg per vial ) .
• INCRELEX is a sterile solution supplied in a multiple dose glass vial at a concentration of 10 mg per mL ( 40 mg per vial ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known Hypersensitivity to mecasermin ( 4 ) • Intravenous Administration ( 4 ) • Closed Epiphyses ( 4 ) • Malignant Neoplasia ( 4 ) • Known Hypersensitivity INCRELEX should not be used by patients who are allergic to mecasermin ( rhIGF - 1 ) or any of the inactive ingredients in INCRELEX , or who have experienced a severe hypersensitivity to INCRELEX [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
• Closed Epiphyses INCRELEX should not be used for growth promotion in patients with closed epiphyses .
• Malignant Neoplasia INCRELEX is contraindicated in pediatric patients with malignant neoplasia or a history of malignancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypoglycemia : INCRELEX should be administered shortly before or after a meal or snack , because it has insulin - like hypoglycemic effects .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions , including Anaphylaxis : A low number of cases indicative of anaphylaxis requiring hospitalization have been reported .
Parents and patients should be informed that such reactions are possible and that if a systemic allergic reaction occurs , treatment should be interrupted and prompt medical attention should be sought .
( 5 . 2 ) • Intracranial Hypertension : Funduscopic examination is recommended at the initiation and periodically during the course of INCRELEX therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Lymphoid Tissue Hypertrophy ( tonsillar / adenoidal hypertrophy ) : Patients should have periodic examinations to rule out potential complications and receive appropriate treatment if necessary .
( 5 . 4 ) • Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis ( SCFE ) : Evaluate any child with onset of a limp or hip / knee pain for possible SCFE .
( 5 . 5 ) • Progression of Scoliosis : Monitor any child with scoliosis for progression of the spine curve .
( 5 . 6 ) • Malignant Neoplasia : Several cases of malignant neoplasia have been observed in pediatric patients treated with INCRELEX .
Therapy should be discontinued if evidence of malignant neoplasia develops and appropriate expert medical care sought .
( 5 . 7 ) • Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions in Infants due to Benzyl Alcohol Preserved Solution : Benzyl alcohol , a preservative in INCRELEX , has been associated with serious adverse reactions , including death , in neonates and infants .
Use of INCRELEX in infants is not recommended .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Hypoglycemia Because INCRELEX has insulin - like hypoglycemic effects it should be administered shortly before or after ( ± 20 minutes ) a meal or snack .
Glucose monitoring and INCRELEX dose titration are recommended until a well tolerated dose is established [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] and subsequently as medically indicated .
Special attention should be paid to small children because their oral intake may not be consistent .
Patients should avoid engaging in any high - risk activities ( e . g . , driving , exercise , etc . ) within 2 to 3 hours after dosing , particularly during the initiation of INCRELEX treatment until tolerability and a stable dose have been established [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
INCRELEX should not be administered when the meal or snack is omitted .
The dose of INCRELEX should never be increased to make up for one or more omitted doses .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions , including Anaphylaxis Allergic reactions to INCRELEX have been reported post - marketing .
They range from localized ( injection site ) reactions to systemic reactions , including anaphylaxis requiring hospitalization .
Parents and patients should be informed that such reactions are possible and that if a systemic allergic reaction occurs , treatment should be interrupted and prompt medical attention should be sought .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] 5 . 3 Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension ( IH ) with papilledema , visual changes , headache , nausea and / or vomiting have occurred in patients treated with INCRELEX .
IH - associated signs and symptoms resolved after interruption of dosing .
Funduscopic examination is recommended at the initiation and periodically during the course of INCRELEX therapy .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Lymphoid Tissue Hypertrophy Lymphoid tissue ( e . g . , tonsillar and adenoidal ) hypertrophy associated with complications , such as snoring , sleep apnea , and chronic middle - ear effusions have been reported with the use of INCRELEX .
Patients should have periodic examinations to rule out such potential complications and receive appropriate treatment if necessary [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis Slipped capital femoral epiphysis can occur in patients who experience rapid growth .
Any pediatric patient with the onset of a limp or complaints of hip or knee pain during INCRELEX therapy should be carefully evaluated .
5 . 6 Progression of Preexisting Scoliosis Progression of scoliosis may occur in patients who experience rapid growth .
Because INCRELEX increases growth rate , patients with a history of scoliosis who are treated with INCRELEX should be monitored for progression of scoliosis .
5 . 7 Malignant Neoplasia There have been postmarketing reports of malignant neoplasms in pediatric patients who have received treatment with INCRELEX [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
The cases of malignant neoplasms represented a variety of different malignancies .
It is unknown whether there is any relationship between INCRELEX therapy and new occurrence of neoplasia .
The occurrence of neoplasia was mostly reported in patients with rare genetic conditions of short stature associated with an increased risk of cancer , or in patients with other cancer predisposing conditions .
The tumors were observed also more frequently in patients who received INCRELEX at higher than recommended doses , or at doses that produced serum IGF - 1 levels above the normal reference ranges for age and sex .
Monitor all patients receiving INCRELEX carefully for development of neoplasms .
Advise patients / caregivers to report development of new neoplasms .
If malignant neoplasia develops , discontinue INCRELEX treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions in Infants due to Benzyl Alcohol Preserved Solution Serious and fatal adverse reactions including " gasping syndrome " can occur in neonates and infants treated with benzyl alcohol - preserved drugs , including INCRELEX .
The " gasping syndrome " is characterized by central nervous system depression , metabolic acidosis , and gasping respirations .
Use of INCRELEX in infants is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations 8 . 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions , including Anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Intracranial hypertension ( IH ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Tonsillar and Adenoidal Hypertrophy and related complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Progression of Preexisting Scoliosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Malignant Neoplasia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Benzyl Alcohol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Common INCRELEX - related adverse reactions in clinical trials include : hypoglycemia , local and systemic hypersensitivity , tonsillar hypertrophy ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 855 - 463 - 5127 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical studies of 71 subjects with Primary IGFD treated for a mean duration of 3 . 9 years and representing 274 subject - years , no subjects withdrew from any clinical study because of adverse reactions .
Adverse reactions to INCRELEX treatment that occurred in 5 % or more of these study participants are listed below by organ class .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : hypoglycemia General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions : lipohypertrophy , bruising Infections and Infestations : otitis media , serous otitis media Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : snoring , tonsillar hypertrophy Nervous System Disorders : headache , dizziness , convulsions Gastrointestinal Disorders : vomiting Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : hypoacusis , fluid in middle ear , ear pain , abnormal tympanometry Cardiac Disorders : cardiac murmur Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthralgia , pain in extremity Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : thymus hypertrophy Surgical and Medical Procedures : ear tube insertion Hypoglycemia was reported by 30 subjects ( 42 % ) at least once during their course of therapy .
Most cases of hypoglycemia were mild or moderate in severity .
Five subjects had severe hypoglycemia ( requiring assistance and treatment ) on one or more occasions and 4 subjects experienced hypoglycemic seizures / loss of consciousness on one or more occasions .
Of the 30 subjects reporting hypoglycemia , 14 ( 47 % ) had a history of hypoglycemia prior to treatment .
The frequency of hypoglycemia was highest in the first month of treatment , and episodes were more frequent in younger children .
Symptomatic hypoglycemia was generally avoided when a meal or snack was consumed either shortly ( i . e . , 20 minutes ) before or after the administration of INCRELEX .
Tonsillar hypertrophy was noted in 11 ( 15 % ) subjects in the first 1 to 2 years of therapy with lesser tonsillar growth in subsequent years .
Tonsillectomy or tonsillectomy / adenoidectomy was performed in 7 subjects ; 3 of these had obstructive sleep apnea , which resolved after the procedure in all three cases .
Intracranial hypertension occurred in three subjects .
In two subjects the events resolved without interruption of INCRELEX treatment .
INCRELEX treatment was discontinued in the third subject and resumed later at a lower dose without recurrence .
Mild elevations in the serum AST and LDH were found in a significant proportion of patients before and during treatment .
Rise in levels of these serum enzymes did not lead to treatment discontinuation .
ALT elevations were occasionally noted during treatment .
Renal and splenic lengths ( measured by ultrasound ) increased rapidly on INCRELEX treatment during the first years of therapy .
This lengthening slowed down subsequently ; though in some patients , renal and / or splenic length reached or surpassed the 95 th percentile .
Renal function ( as defined by serum creatinine and calculated creatinine clearance ) was normal in all patients , irrespective of renal growth .
Elevations in cholesterol and triglycerides to above the upper limit of normal were observed before and during treatment .
Echocardiographic evidence of cardiomegaly / valvulopathy was observed in a few individuals without associated clinical symptoms .
The relation of these cardiac changes to drug treatment cannot be assessed due to underlying disease and the lack of a control group .
Thickening of the soft tissues of the face was observed in several patients and should be monitored during INCRELEX treatment .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to INCRELEX with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
Anti - IGF - 1 antibodies were present at one or more of the periodic assessments in 14 of 23 children with Primary IGFD treated for 2 years .
However , no clinical consequences of these antibodies were observed ( e . g . , attenuation of growth ) .
6 . 3 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of INCRELEX .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Systemic hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , generalized urticaria , angioedema , dyspnea In the post - marketing setting , the frequency of cases indicative of anaphylaxis was estimated to be 0 . 3 % .
Symptoms included hives , angioedema , and dyspnea , and some patients required hospitalization .
Upon re - administration , symptoms did not re - occur in all patients .
Local allergic reactions at the injection site : pruritus , urticaria Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : alopecia , hair texture abnormal General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions : injection site reactions ( e . g . erythema , pain , hematoma , hemorrhage , induration , rash , swelling ) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : osteonecrosis / avascular necrosis ( occasionally associated with slipped capital femoral epiphysis ) Neoplasms Benign , Malignant and Unspecified ( including cysts and polyps ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness has not been established in children less than 2 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on INCRELEX use in pregnant women .
Exposure to INCRELEX during pregnancy is unlikely because the drug is not indicated for use after epiphyseal closure .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no observed embryo - fetal development abnormalities with intravenous administration of INCRELEX to pregnant rats and rabbits during fetal organogenesis given at exposures up to 11 and 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 0 . 24 mg / kg / day based on body surface area ( BSA ) , respectively ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Studies to assess embryo - fetal toxicity evaluated the effects of INCRELEX during organogenesis in Sprague Dawley rats given 1 , 4 , and 16 mg / kg / day and in New Zealand White rabbits given 0 . 125 , 0 . 5 , and 2 mg / kg / day , administered intravenously .
There were no observed embryo - fetal developmental abnormalities in rats given up to 16 mg / kg / day ( 11 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison ) .
In the rabbit study , the NOAEL for fetal toxicity was 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to the MRHD based on BSA ) due to an increase in fetal death at 2 mg / kg .
INCRELEX displayed no teratogenicity or maternal toxicity in rabbits given up to 2 mg / kg ( 3 times the MRHD based on BSA ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of mecasermin in human or animal milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for INCRELEX and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from INCRELEX or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Toxicity ( Gasping Syndrome ) with Benzyl Alcohol Serious adverse reactions including fatal reactions and the " gasping syndrome " occurred in premature neonates and infants in the intensive care unit who received drugs containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
In these cases , benzyl alcohol dosages of 99 mg / kg / day to 234 mg / kg / day produced high levels of benzyl alcohol and its metabolites in the blood and urine ( blood levels of benzyl alcohol were 0 . 61 mmol / L to 1 . 378 mmol / L ) .
INCRELEX contains 9 mg / mL benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Additional adverse reactions included gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematologic abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Preterm , low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop these reactions because they may be less able to metabolize benzyl alcohol .
Use of INCRELEX in infants is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and effectiveness of INCRELEX in patients aged 65 and over has not been established .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No Studies have been conducted in Primary IGFD children or adult subjects with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No studies have been conducted in Primary IGFD children or adult subjects with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Treatment of acute overdose should be directed at reversing hypoglycemia .
Oral glucose or food should be consumed .
If the overdose results in loss of consciousness , intravenous glucose or parenteral glucagon may be required to reverse the hypoglycemic effects .
A small number of overdose cases have been reported in the post - marketing experience .
In one case of acute overdose , a 3 - year old patient experienced hypoglycemia after receiving one 4 mg dose of INCRELEX ( a 10 - fold increase beyond the prescribed dose ) .
The event resolved following treatment with IV glucose .
Long term overdosage with INCRELEX may result in signs and symptoms of acromegaly .
11 DESCRIPTION INCRELEX ( mecasermin ) injection contains human insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( rhIGF - 1 ) produced by recombinant DNA technology .
IGF - 1 consists of 70 amino acids in a single chain with three intramolecular disulfide bridges and a molecular weight of 7649 daltons .
The amino acid sequence of the product is identical to that of endogenous human IGF - 1 .
The rhIGF - 1 protein is synthesized in bacteria ( E . coli ) that have been modified by the addition of the gene for human IGF - 1 .
INCRELEX is a sterile , aqueous , clear and colorless solution intended for subcutaneous injection .
Each multi - dose vial of INCRELEX contains 10 mg per mL mecasermin , 9 mg per mL benzyl alcohol , 5 . 84 mg per mL sodium chloride , 2 mg per mL polysorbate 20 , and 0 . 05 M acetate at a pH of approximately 5 . 4 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) is a key hormonal mediator on statural growth .
Under normal circumstances , growth hormone ( GH ) binds to its receptor in the liver , and other tissues , and stimulates the synthesis / secretion of IGF - 1 .
In target tissues , the Type 1 IGF - 1 receptor , which is homologous to the insulin receptor , is activated by IGF - 1 , leading to intracellular signaling which stimulates multiple processes resulting in statural growth .
The metabolic actions of IGF - 1 are in part directed at stimulating the uptake of glucose , fatty acids , and amino acids so that metabolism supports growing tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The following actions have been demonstrated for endogenous human IGF - 1 : Tissue Growth – 1 ) Skeletal growth occurs at the cartilage growth plates of the epiphyses of bones where stem cells divide to produce new cartilage cells or chondrocytes .
The growth of chondrocytes is under the control of IGF - 1 and GH .
The chondrocytes become calcified so that new bone is formed allowing the length of the bones to increase .
This results in skeletal growth until the cartilage growth plates fuse at the end of puberty .
2 ) Cell growth : IGF - 1 receptors are present on most types of cells and tissues .
IGF - 1 has mitogenic activities that lead to an increased number of cells in the body .
3 ) Organ growth : Treatment of IGF - 1 deficient rats with rhIGF - 1 results in whole body and organ growth .
Carbohydrate Metabolism – IGF - 1 suppresses hepatic glucose production and stimulates peripheral glucose utilization and therefore has a hypoglycemic potential .
IGF - 1 has inhibitory effects on insulin secretion .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption – The absolute bioavailability of rhIGF - 1 after subcutaneous administration in healthy subjects is estimated to be close to 100 % .
However , the absolute bioavailability of INCRELEX given subcutaneously to subjects with primary insulin - like growth factor - 1 deficiency ( Primary IGFD ) has not been determined .
Distribution – In blood , IGF - 1 is bound to six IGF binding proteins , with > 80 % bound as a complex with IGFBP - 3 and an acid - labile subunit .
IGFBP - 3 is greatly reduced in subjects with severe Primary IGFD , resulting in increased clearance of IGF - 1 in these subjects relative to healthy subjects .
The total IGF - 1 volume of distribution after subcutaneous administration in subjects with severe Primary IGFD is estimated to be 0 . 257 ( ± 0 . 073 ) L / kg at an INCRELEX dose of 0 . 045 mg / kg , and is estimated to increase as the dose of INCRELEX increases .
Elimination – IGF - 1 is metabolized by both liver and kidney .
The mean terminal t1 / 2 after single subcutaneous administration of 0 . 12 mg / kg INCRELEX in pediatric subjects with severe Primary IGFD is estimated to be 5 . 8 hours .
Clearance of INCRELEX is inversely proportional to IGF binding protein - 3 ( IGFBP - 3 ) levels .
CL / F is estimated to be 0 . 04 L / hr / kg at 0 . 5 micrograms / mL of IGFBP - 3 , and 0 . 01 L / hr / kg at 3 micrograms / mL IGFBP - 3 ; the latter is the median IGFBP - 3 in subjects with normal IGF - 1 serum levels .
Gender – In children with Primary IGFD there were no apparent differences between males and females in the pharmacokinetics of INCRELEX .
Race – The effect of race on pharmacokinetics of INCRELEX has not been studied .
Summary of INCRELEX Single - Dose Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Children with Severe Primary IGFD ( 0 . 12 mg / kg , SC ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) AUC0 - 8 ( hr * ng / mL ) t1 / 2 ( hr ) Vd / F ( L / kg ) CL / F ( L / hr / kg ) n 3 3 3 3 12 [ 1 ] 12 null Cmax = maximum concentration ; Tmax = time of maximum concentration ; AUC0 - 8 = area under the curve ; t1 / 2 = half - life ; Vd / F = apparent volume of distribution ; CL / F = apparent systemic clearance ; SC = subcutaneous injection ; CV % = coefficient of variation in % .
Male / female data combined , ages 12 to 22 years .
PK parameters based on baseline adjusted plasma concentrations .
Mean 234 2 2932 5 . 8 0 . 257 0 . 0424 CV % 23 0 50 64 28 38 [ 1 ] Data represents 3 subjects each at doses 0 . 015 , 0 . 03 , 0 . 06 , and 0 . 12 mg / kg SC .
Mean Total IGF - 1 Concentration after a Single Subcutaneous Dose of INCRELEX in Children with Severe Primary IGFD ( 0 . 06 mg / kg and 0 . 12 mg / kg , n = 3 per group ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Renal impairment – No studies have been conducted in Primary IGFD children with renal impairment .
Hepatic impairment – No studies have been conducted to determine the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of rhIGF - 1 in Primary IGFD children with hepatic impairment .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : INCRELEX was tumorigenic in rats in a study using doses of 0 , 0 . 25 , 1 , 4 , and 10 mg / kg / day by subcutaneous injection for up to 2 years .
The incidence of adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytoma increased in male rats given ≥ 1 mg / kg / day ( below clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] based on AUC ) and in female rats at all dose levels ( below clinical exposure at the MRHD based on AUC ) .
The incidence of keratoacanthoma in the skin increased in male rats given 4 and 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately the clinical exposure at the MRHD based on AUC ) .
The incidence of mammary gland carcinoma in male rats increased in animals treated with 10 mg / kg / day ( 3 times the MRHD based on AUC ) .
Only doses that exceeded the maximum tolerated dose ( MTD ) ( based on excess mortality secondary to IGF - 1 induced hypoglycemia ) caused skin and mammary tumors .
Mutagenesis : INCRELEX was not clastogenic in the in vitro chromosome aberration assay and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of fertility : INCRELEX had no effects on fertility in rats using intravenous doses 0 . 25 , 1 , and 4 mg / kg / day ( up to 3 times the clinical exposure at the MRHD based on BSA ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Effects of INCRELEX Treatment in Children with Severe Primary Insulin - like Growth Factor - 1 Deficiency ( Severe Primary IGFD ) Five clinical studies ( four open - label and one double - blind , placebo - controlled ) , with subcutaneous doses of INCRELEX generally ranging from 0 . 06 to 0 . 12 mg / kg ( 60 to 120 micrograms / kg ) administered twice daily , were conducted in 71 pediatric subjects with severe Primary IGFD .
Patients were enrolled in the trials on the basis of extreme short stature , slow growth rates , low IGF - 1 serum concentrations , and normal growth hormone secretion .
Data from these 5 clinical studies were pooled for a global efficacy and safety analysis .
Baseline characteristics for the patients evaluated in the primary and secondary efficacy analyses were ( mean , SD ) : chronological age ( years ) : 6 . 7 ± 3 . 8 ; height ( cm ) : 84 . 8 ± 15 . 3 cm ; height standard deviation score ( SDS ) : - 6 . 7 ± 1 . 8 ; height velocity ( cm / yr ) : 2 . 8 ± 1 . 8 ; height velocity SDS : - 3 . 3 ± 1 . 7 ; IGF - 1 ( ng / mL ) : 21 . 6 ± 20 . 6 ; IGF - 1 SDS : - 4 . 3 ± 1 . 6 ; and bone age ( years ) : 4 . 2 ± 2 . 8 .
Sixty - one subjects had at least one year of treatment .
Fifty - three ( 87 % ) had Laron Syndrome ; 7 ( 11 % ) had GH gene deletion , and 1 ( 2 % ) had neutralizing antibodies to GH .
Thirty - seven ( 61 % ) of the subjects were male ; forty - eight ( 79 % ) were Caucasian .
Fifty - six ( 92 % ) of the subjects were pre - pubertal at baseline .
Annual results for height velocity , height velocity SDS , and height SDS are shown in Table 1 .
Pre - treatment height velocity data were available for 58 subjects .
The height velocities at a given year of treatment were compared by paired t - tests to the pre - treatment height velocities of the same subjects completing that treatment year .
Table 1 : Annual Height Results by Number of Years Treated with INCRELEX Pre - Tx Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Pre - Tx = Pre - treatment ; SD = Standard Deviation ; SDS = Standard Deviation Score Height Velocity ( cm / yr ) N 58 58 48 38 23 21 20 16 13 Mean ( SD ) 2 . 8 ( 1 . 8 ) 8 . 0 ( 2 . 2 ) 5 . 8 ( 1 . 5 ) 5 . 5 ( 1 . 8 ) 4 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) 4 . 7 ( 1 . 6 ) 4 . 8 ( 1 . 5 ) 4 . 6 ( 1 . 5 ) 4 . 3 ( 1 . 1 ) Mean ( SD ) for change from pre - treatment + 5 . 2 ( 2 . 6 ) + 2 . 9 ( 2 . 4 ) + 2 . 3 ( 2 . 4 ) + 1 . 5 ( 2 . 2 ) + 1 . 5 ( 1 . 8 ) + 1 . 5 ( 1 . 7 ) + 1 . 0 ( 2 . 1 ) + 0 . 7 ( 2 . 5 ) P - value for change from pre - treatment [ 1 ] < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 < 0 . 0001 0 . 0045 0 . 0015 0 . 0009 0 . 0897 0 . 3059 Height Velocity SDS N 58 58 47 37 22 19 18 15 11 Mean ( SD ) - 3 . 3 ( 1 . 7 ) 1 . 9 ( 3 . 0 ) - 0 . 2 ( 1 . 6 ) - 0 . 2 ( 2 . 0 ) - 0 . 7 ( 2 . 1 ) - 0 . 6 ( 2 . 1 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 4 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 9 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 9 ) Mean ( SD ) for change from pre - treatment + 5 . 2 ( 3 . 1 ) + 3 . 1 ( 2 . 3 ) + 2 . 9 ( 2 . 3 ) + 2 . 2 ( 2 . 2 ) + 2 . 5 ( 2 . 2 ) + 2 . 7 ( 1 . 7 ) + 2 . 5 ( 2 . 1 ) + 2 . 7 ( 2 . 8 ) Height SDS N 61 61 51 40 24 21 20 16 13 Mean ( SD ) - 6 . 7 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 9 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 6 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 4 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 5 ( 1 . 9 ) - 5 . 6 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 4 ( 1 . 8 ) - 5 . 2 ( 2 . 0 ) - 5 . 2 ( 2 . 0 ) Mean ( SD ) for change from pre - treatment + 0 . 8 ( 0 . 5 ) + 1 . 2 ( 0 . 8 ) + 1 . 4 ( 1 . 1 ) + 1 . 3 ( 1 . 2 ) + 1 . 4 ( 1 . 3 ) + 1 . 4 ( 1 . 2 ) + 1 . 4 ( 1 . 1 ) + 1 . 5 ( 1 . 1 ) [ 1 ] P - values for comparison versus pre - treatment values are computed using paired t - tests .
Forty - nine subjects were included in an analysis of the effects of INCRELEX on bone age advancement .
The mean ± SD change in chronological age was 4 . 9 ± 3 . 4 years and the mean ± SD change in bone age was 5 . 3 ± 3 . 4 years .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC - 15054 - 1040 - 5 INCRELEX is supplied as a 10 mg per mL sterile solution in multiple dose glass vials ( 40 mg per vial ) .
Before Opening – Vials of INCRELEX are stable when refrigerated [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 35 ° to 46 ° F ) ] .
Avoid freezing the vials of INCRELEX .
Protect from direct light .
Expiration dates are stated on the labels .
After Opening – Vials of INCRELEX are stable for 30 days after initial vial entry when stored at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 35 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing the vials of INCRELEX .
Protect from direct light .
Vial contents should be clear without particulate matter .
If the solution is cloudy or contains particulate matter , the contents must not be injected .
INCRELEX should not be used after its expiration date .
Keep refrigerated and use within 30 days of initial vial entry .
Remaining unused material should be discarded .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients and / or caregivers to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) and Instructions for Use .
Counsel patients and / or parents that there have been occurrences of malignant neoplasia observed among pediatric patients who received treatment with INCRELEX .
Instruct patients and / or parents to monitor for development of any new growth or symptoms of cancer and to report it immediately .
Instruct patients and / or caregivers in the proper administration of INCRELEX .
Give INCRELEX shortly before or after ( 20 minutes on either side of ) a meal or snack .
Do not give INCRELEX when the meal or snack is omitted .
Do not increase the dose of INCRELEX to make up for one or more omitted doses .
INCRELEX therapy will be initiated at a low dose and the dose should be increased only if no hypoglycemia episodes have occurred after at least 7 days of dosing .
Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia .
Educate patients and caregivers on the identification of signs and symptoms of serious allergic reactions to INCRELEX and the need to seek prompt medical contact should such a reaction occur .
Instruct patients and caregivers to discontinue INCRELEX if a reaction occurs .
Manufactured for : Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals , Inc .
Cambridge , MA 02142 USA by : Hospira , Incorporated McPherson , KS 67460 USA This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : 12 / 2019 PATIENT INFORMATION INCRELEX ® ( EENK - RUH - LEX ) ( mecasermin ) injection for subcutaneous use Read the Patient Information that comes with INCRELEX before your child starts receiving INCRELEX and each time your child gets a refill .
There may be new information .
This Patient Information leaflet does not take the place of talking with your child ' s doctor about your child ' s medical condition or treatment .
What is INCRELEX ?
• INCRELEX is a liquid that contains man - made insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) .
INCRELEX is used to treat children who are very short for their age because their bodies do not make enough IGF - 1 .
This condition is called primary IGF - 1 deficiency .
• IGF - 1 should not be used instead of growth hormone .
• It is not known if INCRELEX is safe and effective in children under 2 years of age .
Who should not receive INCRELEX ?
Your child should not receive INCRELEX if your child : • is allergic to mecasermin or any of the ingredients in INCRELEX .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in INCRELEX .
Check with your child ' s doctor if you are not sure .
• has finished growing ( the bone growth plates are closed ) .
• has any cancerous tumors or growths ; or has a history of cancer or a condition that increases the risk of cancer .
Your child should never receive INCRELEX through a vein .
What should I tell my child ' s doctor before my child starts receiving INCRELEX ?
Tell your child ' s doctor about all of your child ' s medical conditions , including if your child : • has diabetes .
• has a curved spine ( scoliosis ) .
• is pregnant or you think your child might be pregnant .
It is not known if INCRELEX can harm an unborn baby .
• is breastfeeding or plans to breastfeed .
Talk to your child ' s doctor about the best way for your child to feed her baby if she receives INCRELEX .
Tell your child ' s doctor about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your child ' s doctor if your child takes insulin or other anti - diabetes medicines .
A change in dose may be needed for these medicines .
How should my child receive INCRELEX ?
• Use INCRELEX exactly as prescribed for your child .
Your child ' s doctor or nurse should teach you how to inject INCRELEX .
Do not give your child INCRELEX unless you understand all of the instructions .
• See the " Instructions for Use " at the end of this Patient Information leaflet .
• Inject INCRELEX under your child ' s skin 20 minutes before or 20 minutes after a meal or snack .
• Skip your child ' s dose of INCRELEX if your child cannot eat for any reason .
Do not give your child an extra dose of INCRELEX or increase the amount of your child ' s dose to make up for a missed dose .
What are the possible side effects of INCRELEX ?
INCRELEX may cause serious side effects , including : • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
INCRELEX may lower blood sugar levels .
It is important to only give your child INCRELEX 20 minutes before or 20 minutes after a meal or snack to reduce the chances of low blood sugar .
Do not give your child INCRELEX if your child cannot eat .
Signs of low blood sugar include : • dizziness • tiredness • restlessness • hunger • irritability • trouble concentrating • sweating • nausea • fast or irregular heartbeat Severe hypoglycemia may cause unconsciousness , seizures , or death .
If your child receives INCRELEX , they should avoid participating in high risk activities ( e . g . driving , exercise , etc . ) within 2 to 3 hours after the INCRELEX injection , especially at the beginning of INCRELEX treatment .
Before beginning treatment with INCRELEX your child ' s doctor or nurse will explain to you how to treat hypoglycemia .
Your child should always have a source of sugar such as orange juice , glucose gel , candy , or milk available in case symptoms of hypoglycemia happen .
For severe hypoglycemia , if your child is not responsive and cannot drink sugar - containing fluids , you should get emergency medical help for your child right away .
Your doctor or nurse will show you how to give the injection .
• Allergic reactions .
See " Who should not receive INCRELEX ? "
Allergic reactions are a serious but common side effect of INCRELEX .
Your child may have a mild or serious allergic reaction with INCRELEX .
Call your child ' s doctor right away if your child gets a rash or hives .
Hives , also known as urticaria , appear as a raised , itchy skin reaction .
Hives appear pale in the middle with a red rim around it .
Hives generally appear minutes to hours after the injection and may sometimes occur at many places on the skin .
Stop taking INCRELEX and get medical help right away if your child has trouble breathing or goes into shock , with symptoms like dizziness , pale , clammy skin or passing out .
INCRELEX can also cause reactions at the injection site including : • loss of fat ( lipoatrophy ) • increase of fat ( lipohypertrophy ) • pain , redness , or bruising Injection site reactions can be avoided by changing ( rotating ) the injection site at each injection .
• Increased pressure in the brain ( intracranial hypertension ) .
INCRELEX , like growth hormone , can sometimes cause a temporary increase in pressure within the brain .
The symptoms of intracranial hypertension can include headache , nausea and vomiting .
Tell your doctor if your child has a headache with vomiting .
Your doctor can then check to see if intracranial hypertension is present .
If it is present , your child ' s doctor may decide to temporarily reduce or stop INCRELEX therapy .
• Enlarged tonsils .
Some signs of enlarged tonsils include : snoring , difficulty breathing , sleep apnea ( a condition where breathing stops briefly during sleep ) , or fluid in the middle - ear .
Sleep apnea can cause excessive daytime sleepiness .
Call your child ' s doctor if these symptoms bother your child .
Your child ' s doctor should do regular exams to check your child ' s tonsils .
• A bone problem called slipped capital femoral epiphysis .
This happens when the top of the upper leg ( femur ) slips apart .
Get medical help for your child right away if your child develops a limp or has hip or knee pain .
• Worsened scoliosis ( caused by rapid growth ) .
If your child has scoliosis , your child will need to be checked often for an increase in the curve of the spine .
• Tumor Growths .
Several cases of cancerous tumors have been observed in pediatric patients who received treatment with INCRELEX .
Tell your doctor immediately if your child develops any new growths or symptoms of cancer .
• Benzyl alcohol toxicity .
Benzyl alcohol is a preservative in INCRELEX .
Benzyl alcohol can cause serious side effects , including death in infants who have received medicines that contain the benzyl alcohol preservative .
The most common side effects of INCRELEX include : hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , injection site reactions , allergic reactions and enlarged tonsils .
Call your child ' s doctor if your child has any side effects that bothers them or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of INCRELEX .
For more information , ask your child ' s doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store INCRELEX ?
• Before Opening : Store new , unopened vials of INCRELEX in the refrigerator between 35 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After Opening : Store opened vials of INCRELEX in the refrigerator between 35 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) for 30 days after you start using the vial .
Throw away any unused INCRELEX after 30 days .
• Do not freeze INCRELEX .
If a vial freezes , throw it away .
• Keep INCRELEX out of direct light .
• Do not use INCRELEX after the expiration date printed on the label .
Keep INCRELEX and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of INCRELEX .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not give INCRELEX to your child for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give INCRELEX to a person other than your child .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about INCRELEX .
If you would like more information , talk to your child ' s doctor .
You can also ask your child ' s doctor or pharmacist for information about INCRELEX that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in INCRELEX ?
Active ingredient : mecasermin Inactive ingredients : benzyl alcohol , sodium chloride , polysorbate 20 , and acetate .
Manufactured for : Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals , Inc .
INCRELEX is a registered trademark of Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals , Inc . © 2019 .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . Increlex . com or call 855 - 463 - 5127 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE INCRELEX ® ( EENK - RUH - LEX ) ( mecasermin ) injection for subcutaneous use Read this Instructions for Use before you start using INCRELEX and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your child ' s doctor about your child ' s medical condition or treatment .
Do not share your child ' s needles and syringes with another person .
Your child may give another person an infection or your child could get an infection from them .
Important : • Inject INCRELEX exactly as your child ' s doctor or nurse has shown you .
• Follow your doctor ' s instructions for the type of syringe and needle to use to prepare and inject your child ' s dose of INCRELEX .
• Always use a new , unopened needle and syringe for each injection .
• Only use single - use , disposable needles and syringes .
Never reuse disposable needles and syringes .
• Throw away used needles and syringes in a puncture - resistant , disposable sharps container as soon as you finish giving the injection .
See step 5 " How should I throw away ( dispose of ) used needles and syringes ? "
at the end of these instructions .
Supplies needed to give the injection : • 1 vial of INCRELEX • 1 alcohol swab • 1 gauze or cotton ball • alcohol ( to clean the skin at the injection site ) • 1 sharps container for throwing away ( disposing of ) used needles and syringes .
See step 5 " How should I throw away ( dispose of ) used needles and syringes ? "
at the end of these instructions .
Preparing the Dose : • Wash your hands before getting INCRELEX ready for your child ' s injection .
• Check the liquid to make sure it is clear and colorless .
Do not use if it is cloudy or if you see particles .
• Check the expiration date printed on the label of the vial .
Do not use INCRELEX if the expiration date has passed .
• If you are using a new vial , remove the protective cap .
Do not remove the rubber top ( see Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Remove the protective cap • Wipe the rubber top on the vial with an alcohol swab ( see Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Wipe rubber top with alcohol swab • Before putting the needle into the vial , pull back on plunger to draw air into the syringe equal to the INCRELEX dose .
Put the needle through the rubber top of the vial and push the plunger to inject air into the vial ( see Figure 3 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Inject air into vial • Leave the syringe in the vial and turn both upside down .
Hold the syringe and vial firmly ( see Figure 4 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Prepare to withdraw liquid • Make sure the tip of the needle is in the liquid ( see Figure 5 ) .
Pull the plunger to withdraw the correct dose into the syringe ( see Figure 6 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Tip in liquid Figure 6 : Withdraw correct dose • Before you take the needle out of the vial , check the syringe for air bubbles .
If bubbles are in the syringe , hold the vial and syringe with needle straight up and tap the side of the syringe until the bubbles float to the top .
Push the bubbles out with the plunger and draw liquid back in until you have the correct dose ( see Figure 7 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 : Remove air bubbles and refill syringe • Remove the needle from the vial .
Do not let the needle touch anything .
You are now ready to inject ( see Figure 8 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 : Ready to inject Injecting the Dose : Inject INCRELEX exactly as your child ' s doctor or nurse has shown you .
Do not give the INCRELEX injection if your child is unable to eat within 20 minutes before or after the injection .
• 1 .
Choose an injection site – upper arm , upper leg ( thigh ) , buttocks , or stomach area ( abdomen ) ( see below ) .
The injection site should be changed ( rotated ) for each injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Upper arm Thigh Buttock Abdomen • 2 .
Use alcohol to clean the skin where you are going to inject your child .
The injection site should be dry before you inject .
Do not fan or blow on the cleaned skin .
Do not touch the injection site again before giving the injection .
• 3 .
Lightly pinch the skin .
Insert the needle into the pinched skin as instructed by your child ' s doctor or nurse ( see Figure A ) .
Release the pinched skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A : Lightly pinch the skin and inject as instructed • 4 .
Slowly push the plunger of the syringe all the way in to make sure you have injected all of the liquid .
Pull the needle straight out and gently press on the injection site with gauze or a cotton ball for a few seconds .
Do not rub the injection site ( see Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B : Press ( do not rub ) with gauze or cotton ball • 5 .
How should I throw away ( dispose of ) used needles and syringes ?
• Put used needles and syringes in an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• Do not try to touch the needle .
• If you do not have an FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how to throw away needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• For the safety and health of you and others , needles and used syringes must never be re - used .
• The used alcohol swabs , cotton balls , and gauze may be placed in your household trash .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
• Always keep the sharps disposal container out of the reach of children .
How should I store INCRELEX ?
• Before Opening : Store new , unopened vials of INCRELEX in the refrigerator between 35 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After Opening : Store opened vials of INCRELEX in the refrigerator between 35 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) for 30 days after you start using the vial .
Throw away any unused INCRELEX after 30 days .
• Do not freeze INCRELEX .
If a vial freezes , throw it away .
• Keep INCRELEX out of direct light .
• Do not use INCRELEX after the expiration date printed on the label .
Keep INCRELEX and all medicines out of reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
For additional information , call 855 - 463 - 5127 .
Manufactured for : Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals , Inc .
Cambridge , MA 02142 USA www . ipsenus . com Revised : December 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Vial Carton IPSEN Rx only increlex ® ( mecasermin ) injection 40 mg / 4 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) For subcutaneous use only Net wt .
40 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
