DESCRIPTION Sucralfate oral suspension contains sucralfate and sucralfate is an α - D - Glucopyranoside , ß - D - fructofuranosyl - , octakis ( hydrogen sulfate ) , aluminum complex .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] x = 8 to 10 , and y = 22 to 31 Sucralfate oral suspension for oral administration contains 1 g of sucralfate per 10 mL .
Sucralfate oral suspension also contains : artificial cherry flavor , colloidal silicon dioxide , FD & C Red No . 40 , glycerin , methylcellulose , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , purified water , simethicone ( which contains polydimethylsiloxane and silicon dioxide ) and sorbitol solution .
Therapeutic category : antiulcer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
The small amounts of the sulfated disaccharide that are absorbed are excreted primarily in the urine .
Although the mechanism of sucralfate ’ s ability to accelerate healing of duodenal ulcers remains to be fully defined , it is known that it exerts its effect through a local , rather than systemic , action .
The following observations also appear pertinent : • 1 .
Studies in human subjects and with animal models of ulcer disease have shown that sucralfate forms an ulcer - adherent complex with proteinaceous exudate at the ulcer site .
• 2 .
In vitro , a sucralfate - albumin film provides a barrier to diffusion of hydrogen ions .
• 3 .
In human subjects , sucralfate given in doses recommended for ulcer therapy inhibits pepsin activity in gastric juice by 32 % .
In vitro , sucralfate adsorbs bile salts .
These observations suggest that sucralfate ’ s antiulcer activity is the result of formation of an ulcer - adherent complex that covers the ulcer site and protects it against further attack by acid , pepsin , and bile salts .
There are approximately 14 to 16 mEq of acid - neutralizing capacity per 1 g dose of sucralfate .
CLINICAL TRIALS In a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of sucralfate oral suspension , a dosage regimen of 1 gram ( 10 mL ) four times daily was demonstrated to be superior to placebo in ulcer healing .
Results From Clinical Trials Healing Rates for Acute Duodenal Ulcer Treatment n Week 2 Healing Rates Week 4 Healing Rates Week 8 Healing Rates Sucralfate Oral Suspension 145 23 ( 16 % ) [ 1 ] 66 ( 46 % ) [ 2 ] 95 ( 66 % ) [ 3 ] Placebo 147 10 ( 7 % ) 39 ( 27 % ) 58 ( 39 % ) [ 1 ] P = 0 . 016 [ 2 ] P = 0 . 001 [ 3 ] P = 0 . 0001 Equivalence of sucralfate oral suspension to sucralfate tablets has not been demonstrated .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate oral suspension is indicated in the short - term ( up to 8 weeks ) treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate oral suspension is contraindicated for patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients .
WARNINGS Fatal complications , including pulmonary and cerebral emboli have occurred with inappropriate intravenous administration of sucralfate oral suspension .
Administer sucralfate oral suspension only by the oral route .
Do not administer intravenously .
PRECAUTIONS The physician should read the “ PRECAUTIONS ” section when considering the use of sucralfate oral suspension in pregnant or pediatric patients , or patients of childbearing potential .
Duodenal ulcer is a chronic , recurrent disease .
While short - term treatment with sucralfate can result in complete healing of the ulcer , a successful course of treatment with sucralfate should not be expected to alter the post healing frequency or severity of duodenal ulceration .
Episodes of hyperglycemia have been reported in diabetic patients .
Close monitoring of glycemia in diabetic patients treated with sucralfate oral suspension is recommended .
Adjustment of the anti - diabetic treatment dose during the use of sucralfate oral suspension might be necessary .
Special Populations Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients When sucralfate is administered orally , small amounts of aluminum are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Concomitant use of sucralfate with other products that contain aluminum , such as aluminum - containing antacids , may increase the total body burden of aluminum .
Patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended doses of sucralfate and aluminum - containing products adequately excrete aluminum in the urine .
Patients with chronic renal failure or those receiving dialysis have impaired excretion of absorbed aluminum .
In addition , aluminum does not cross dialysis membranes because it is bound to albumin and transferrin plasma proteins .
Aluminum accumulation and toxicity ( aluminum osteodystrophy , osteomalacia , encephalopathy ) have been described in patients with renal impairment .
Sucralfate should be used with caution in patients with chronic renal failure .
Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption ( bioavailability ) of single doses of the following : cimetidine , digoxin , fluoroquinolone antibiotics , ketoconazole , l - thyroxine , phenytoin , quinidine , ranitidine , tetracycline , and theophylline .
Subtherapeutic prothrombin times with concomitant warfarin and sucralfate therapy have been reported in spontaneous and published case reports .
However , two clinical studies have demonstrated no change in either serum warfarin concentration or prothrombin time with the addition of sucralfate to chronic warfarin therapy .
The mechanism of these interactions appears to be nonsystemic in nature , presumably resulting from sucralfate binding to the concomitant agent in the gastrointestinal tract .
In all cases studied to date ( cimetidine , ciprofloxacin , digoxin , norfloxacin , ofloxacin , and ranitidine ) , dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction .
Due to sucralfate oral suspension ’ s potential to alter the absorption of some drugs , sucralfate oral suspension should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical .
In these cases , patients should be monitored appropriately .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Chronic oral toxicity studies of 24 months ’ duration were conducted in mice and rats at doses up to 1 g / kg ( 12 times the human dose ) .
There was no evidence of drug - related tumorigenicity .
A reproduction study in rats at doses up to 38 times the human dose did not reveal any indication of fertility impairment .
Mutagenicity studies were not conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Teratogenicity studies have been performed in mice , rats , and rabbits at doses up to 50 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to sucralfate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sucralfate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of sucralfate oral suspension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS : Special Populations : Chronic Renal Failure and Dialysis Patients ) .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to sucralfate tablets in clinical trials were minor and only rarely led to discontinuation of the drug .
In studies involving over 2700 patients treated with sucralfate , adverse effects were reported in 129 ( 4 . 7 % ) .
Constipation was the most frequent complaint ( 2 % ) .
Other adverse effects reported in less than 0 . 5 % of the patients are listed below by body system : Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , dry mouth , flatulence , gastric discomfort , indigestion , nausea , vomiting Dermatological : pruritus , rash Nervous System : dizziness , insomnia , sleepiness , vertigo Other : back pain , headache Post - marketing cases of hypersensitivity have been reported with the use of sucralfate oral suspension , including anaphylactic reactions , dyspnea , lip swelling , edema of the mouth , pharyngeal edema , pruritus , rash , swelling of the face and urticaria .
Cases of bronchospasm , laryngeal edema and respiratory tract edema have been reported with an unknown oral formulation of sucralfate .
Cases of hyperglycemia have been reported with sucralfate .
Bezoars have been reported in patients treated with sucralfate .
The majority of patients had underlying medical conditions that may predispose to bezoar formation ( such as delayed gastric emptying ) or were receiving concomitant enteral tube feedings .
OVERDOSAGE Due to limited experience in humans with overdosage of sucralfate , no specific treatment recommendations can be given .
Acute oral studies in animals , however , using doses up to 12 g / kg body weight , could not find a lethal dose .
Sucralfate is only minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Risks associated with acute overdosage should , therefore , be minimal .
In rare reports describing sucralfate overdose , most patients remained asymptomatic .
Those few reports where adverse events were described included symptoms of dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 gram ( 10 mL ) four times per day .
Sucralfate oral suspension should be administered on an empty stomach .
Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one - half hour before or after sucralfate oral suspension .
While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two , treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x - ray or endoscopic examination .
Elderly In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
HOW SUPPLIED Sucralfate Oral Suspension is a pink oral suspension containing 1 g of sucralfate , USP per 10 mL .
It is available as follows : NDC 0378 - 9205 - 35 bottle containing 420 mL of liquid suspension SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
AVOID FREEZING .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Halo Pharmaceutical Canada , Inc . 17 800 Lapointe Mirabel , QC J7J 0W8 Canada C - 11240 - 3 Revised : 1 / 2020 HLC : SUCROS : R2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 1 g / 10 mL NDC 0378 - 9205 - 35 Sucralfate Oral Suspension 1 g / 10 mL FOR ORAL ADMINISTRATION ONLY SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING AVOID FREEZING Rx only One 420 mL Bottle Each 10 mL ( 2 teaspoons ) sucralfate oral suspension contains 1 g sucralfate , USP .
Usual Dosage : Recommended adult dosage is 1 g ( 2 teaspoons ) four times a day on an empty stomach .
See accompanying prescribing information .
WARNING : Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Pharmacist : Dispense as is .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Mfd .
in Canada for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . HLC : 9205 : OS : R3 - A C - 11240 - 3 Mylan . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
