Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 13 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Oxybenzone 4 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly on face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face • do not apply in windy conditions • use in well ventilated area • reapply • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect this product form excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Water , Styrene / Acrylates Copolymer , Sorbitol , Benzyl Alcohol , Triethanolamine , Dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 3 Distearate , Sorbitan Isostearate , Stearic Acid , VP / Eicosene Copolymer , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Tocopherol , Disodium EDTA , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Fragrance .
Principal Display Panel Kroger FROM OUR FAMILY TO YOURS KIDS sunscreen lotion 50 Broad Spectrum SPF 50 Spray Lotion Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) Non - Irritating 8 FL OZ ( 236 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900
