1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % is a lincosamide antibiotic and retinoid combination product indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION At bedtime , squeeze a pea - sized amount of medication onto one fingertip , dot onto the chin , cheeks , nose , and forehead , then gently rub over the entire face .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be kept away from the eyes , the mouth , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a pea - sized amount to the entire face once daily at bedtime .
Do not apply to eyes , mouth , angles of the nose , or mucous membranes .
( 2 ) • Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel , a combination of a lincosamide antibiotic and a retinoid , contains clindamycin phosphate , USP 1 . 2 % and tretinoin , USP 0 . 025 % , formulated as a topical gel .
Each gram of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel contains , as dispensed , 10 mg ( 1 % ) clindamycin as phosphate , USP , and 0 . 25 mg ( 0 . 025 % ) tretinoin , USP in an aqueous based gel .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is available in 30 gram and 60 gram tubes .
Topical gel : Clindamycin phosphate , USP 1 . 2 % and tretinoin , USP 0 . 025 % gel in 30 and 60 gram tubes .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or history of antibiotic – associated colitis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Colitis : Clindamycin can cause severe colitis , which may result in death .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 1 ) • Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposures : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear sunscreen daily .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of this product .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin .
When significant diarrhea occurs , clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be discontinued .
Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen severe colitis .
Severe colitis may result in death .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
5 . 2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be avoided during the use of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel , and patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin .
Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution .
Daily use of sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , a hat ) are recommended .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Observed local adverse reactions in patients treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel were skin erythema , scaling , itching , burning , and stinging .
Other most commonly reported adverse events ( ≥ 1 % in patients treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ) were nasopharyngitis , pharyngolaryngeal pain , dry skin , cough , and sinusitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under prescribed conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse reactions that appear to be related to drug use for approximating rates .
The safety data presented in Table 1 ( below ) reflects exposure to clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel in 1 , 853 patients with acne vulgaris .
Patients were 12 years and older and were treated once daily for 12 weeks .
Adverse reactions that were reported in ≥ 1 % of patients treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel were compared to adverse reactions in patients treated with clindamycin phosphate 1 . 2 % in vehicle gel , tretinoin 0 . 025 % in vehicle gel , and the vehicle gel alone : Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in at Least 1 % of Patients Treated with Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel : 12 - Week Studies Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel Clindamycin Tretinoin Vehicle N = 1853 N = 1428 N = 846 N = 423 N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Note : Formulations used in all treatment arms were in the clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin vehicle gel .
PATIENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE AR 497 ( 27 ) 342 ( 24 ) 225 ( 27 ) 91 ( 22 ) Nasopharyngitis 65 ( 4 ) 64 ( 5 ) 16 ( 2 ) 5 ( 1 ) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 29 ( 2 ) 18 ( 1 ) 5 ( 1 ) 7 ( 2 ) Dry skin 23 ( 1 ) 7 ( 1 ) 3 ( < 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Cough 19 ( 1 ) 21 ( 2 ) 9 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Sinusitis 19 ( 1 ) 19 ( 1 ) 15 ( 2 ) 4 ( 1 ) Cutaneous safety and tolerance evaluations were conducted at each study visit in all of the clinical trials by assessment of erythema , scaling , itching , burning , and stinging : Table 2 : Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel - Treated Patients with Local Skin Reactions Local Reaction Baseline End of Treatment N = 1835 N = 1614 N ( % ) N ( % ) Erythema 636 ( 35 ) 416 ( 26 ) Scaling 237 ( 13 ) 280 ( 17 ) Itching 189 ( 10 ) 70 ( 4 ) Burning 38 ( 2 ) 56 ( 4 ) Stinging 33 ( 2 ) 27 ( 2 ) At each study visit , application site reactions on a scale of 0 ( none ) , 1 ( mild ) , 2 ( moderate ) , and 3 ( severe ) , and the mean scores were calculated for each of the local skin reactions .
In Studies 1 and 2 , 1277 subjects enrolled with moderate to severe acne , 854 subjects treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel and 423 treated with vehicle .
Analysis over the twelve week period demonstrated that cutaneous irritation scores for erythema , scaling , itching , burning , and stinging peaked at two weeks of therapy , and were slightly higher for the clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin - treated group , decreasing thereafter .
One open - label 12 - month safety study for clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel showed a similar adverse reaction profile as seen in the 12 - week studies .
Eighteen out of 442 subjects ( 4 % ) reported gastrointestinal symptoms .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of topical medications with a strong drying effect can increase skin irritation .
Use with caution .
( 7 . 1 ) • Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin - containing products because of its clindamycin component .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Concomitant Topical Medication Concomitant topical medication , medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices or lime should be used with caution .
When used with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel , there may be increased skin irritation .
7 . 2 Erythromycin Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin - containing products due to its clindamycin component .
In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these two antimicrobials .
The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known .
7 . 3 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category C .
There are no well - controlled trials in pregnant women treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel was tested for maternal and developmental toxicity in New Zealand White Rabbits with topical doses of 60 , 180 and 600 mg / kg / day .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel at 600 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 times the recommended clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison ) was considered to be the no - observed - adverse - effect level ( NOAEL ) for maternal and developmental toxicity following dermal administration of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel for two weeks prior to artificial insemination and continuing until gestation day 18 , inclusive .
For purposes of comparisons of the animal exposure to human exposure , the recommended clinical dose is defined as 1 g of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel applied daily to a 60 kg person .
Clindamycin Teratology ( Segment II ) studies using clindamycin were performed orally in rats ( up to 600 mg / kg / day ) and mice ( up to 100 mg / kg / day ) ( 583 and 49 times amount of clindamycin in the recommended clinical dose based on a body surface area comparison , respectively ) or with subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 180 mg / kg / day ( 175 and 88 times the amount of clindamycin in the recommended clinical dose based on a body surface area comparison , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
Tretinoin In oral Segment III studies in rats with tretinoin , decreased survival of neonates and growth retardation were observed at doses in excess of 2 mg / kg / day ( ~ 78 times the recommended clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison ) .
With widespread use of any drug , a small number of birth defect reports associated temporally with the administration of the drug would be expected by chance alone .
Thirty cases of temporally associated congenital malformations have been reported during two decades of clinical use of another formulation of topical tretinoin .
Although no definite pattern of teratogenicity and no causal association have been established from these cases , 5 of the reports describe the rare birth defect category , holoprosencephaly ( defects associated with incomplete midline development of the forebrain ) .
The significance of these spontaneous reports in terms of risk to the fetus is not known .
Dermal tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rabbits when administered in doses 40 times the recommended human clinical dose based on a body surface area comparison .
Oral tretinoin has been shown to be fetotoxic in rats when administered in doses 78 times the recommended clinical dose based on a body surface area comparison .
8 . 3 NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in human milk following use of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
It is not known whether tretinoin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
Clinical trials of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel included patients 12 to 17 years of age .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] 8 . 5 GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % , is an antibiotic and retinoid combination gel product with two active ingredients .
Clindamycin phosphate , USP is a water - soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate , USP is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
The structural formula for clindamycin phosphate , USP is represented below : Clindamycin phosphate , USP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C18H34ClN2O8PS Molecular Weight : 504 . 97 The chemical name for tretinoin , USP is 3 , 7 - Dimethyl - 9 - ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 1 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ) - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - nonatetraenoic acid ( all - trans form ) .
The structural formula for tretinoin , USP is represented below : Tretinoin , USP : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C20H28O2 Molecular Weight : 300 . 44 Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , glycerin , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , propylparaben , purified water , tromethamine and xanthan gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 MECHANISMS OF ACTION Clindamycin [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Tretinoin Although the exact mode of action of tretinoin is unknown , current evidence suggests that topical tretinoin decreases cohesiveness of follicular epithelial cells with decreased microcomedo formation .
Additionally , tretinoin stimulates mitotic activity and increased turnover of follicular epithelial cells causing extrusion of the comedones .
12 . 3 PHARMACOKINETICS In an open - label , multiple - dose study treating 12 subjects with moderate to severe acne , the percutaneous absorption of tretinoin following 14 consecutive daily applications of approximately 4 g of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel was minimal .
Quantifiable tretinoin plasma concentrations ranged from 1 . 0 to 1 . 6 ng / mL , with unquantifiable plasma concentrations in 50 % to 92 % of subjects at any given timepoint following administration .
The plasma concentrations of the key tretinoin metabolites , 13 - cis - retinoic acid and 4 - oxo - 13 - cis - retinoic acid , ranged from 1 . 0 to 1 . 4 ng / mL and from 1 . 6 to 6 . 5 ng / mL , respectively .
Plasma concentrations for clindamycin generally did not exceed 3 . 5 ng / mL , with the exception of one subject whose plasma concentration reached 13 . 1 ng / mL .
12 . 4 Microbiology Clindamycin binds to the 50 S ribosomal subunits of susceptible bacteria and prevents elongation of peptide chains by interfering with peptidyl transfer , thereby suppressing bacterial protein synthesis .
Clindamycin has been shown to have in vitro activity against Propionibacterium acnes , an organism which has been associated with acne vulgaris ; however , the clinical significance of this activity against P . acnes was not examined in clinical trials with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
P acnes resistance to clindamycin has been documented .
Resistance to clindamycin is often associated with resistance to erythromycin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Carcinogenicity , mutagenicity and impairment of fertility testing of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel have not been performed in any species .
Clindamycin The carcinogenicity of a 1 % clindamycin phosphate gel similar to clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel was evaluated by daily application to mice for two years .
The daily doses used in this study were approximately 13 and 72 times higher than the human dose of clindamycin phosphate from clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel , assuming complete absorption and based on a body surface area comparison .
No significant increase in tumors was noted in the treated animals .
For purposes of comparisons of the animal exposure to human exposure , the recommended human topical clinical dose is defined as 1 g of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel applied daily to a 60 kg person .
Fertility ( Segment 1 ) studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day of clindamycin ( approximately 290 times the amount of clindamycin delivered from the recommended clinical dose for clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel , based on a body surface area comparison ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Tretinoin In two independent studies with long - term topical application of tretinoin in mice , carcinogenicity was not observed .
In both studies , tretinoin was administered topically ( 0 . 025 % or 0 . 1 % ) three times per week for up to two years .
No carcinogenicity was observed with maximum effects of dermal amyloidosis in the basal layer of the skin .
Tretinoin has been shown to enhance photoco - carcinogenicity in properly performed specific studies , employing concurrent or intercurrent exposure to the drug and UV radiation .
The contribution of clindamycin to that effect is unknown .
Although the significance of these studies to humans is not clear , patients should minimize exposure to sun .
The genotoxic potential of tretinoin was evaluated in an in vitro Ames Salmonella reversion test and an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
Both tests were negative .
In oral Segment 1 studies in rats treated with tretinoin , the no - observed - effect - level was 2 mg / kg / day ( ~ 78 times the recommended clinical dose assuming 100 % absorption and based on body surface area comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of once daily use of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel for treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in three 12 - week prospective , multi - center , randomized , blinded studies in patients 12 years and older .
Studies 1 and 2 were of identical design , and compared clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel to clindamycin in the vehicle gel , tretinoin in the vehicle gel , and the vehicle gel alone .
Patients with mild , moderate , or severe acne were enrolled in the studies .
The co - primary efficacy variables were : ( 1 ) Mean percent change from baseline at Week 12 in • inflammatory lesion counts , • non - inflammatory lesion counts , and • total lesion counts ( 2 ) Percent of subjects who cleared or almost cleared at Week 12 as judged by an Evaluator ’ s Global Severity ( EGS ) score .
The EGS scoring scale used in all of the clinical trials for clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is as follows : Grade Description Clear Normal , clear skin with no evidence of acne vulgaris Almost Clear Rare non - inflammatory lesions present , with rare non - inflamed papules ( papules must be resolving and may be hyperpigmented , though not pink - red ) Mild Some non - inflammatory lesions are present , with few inflammatory lesions ( papules / pustules only ; no nodulocystic lesions ) Moderate Non - inflammatory lesions predominate , with multiple inflammatory lesions evident : several to many comedones and papules / pustules , and there may or may not be one small nodulo - cystic lesion Severe Inflammatory lesions are more apparent many comedones and papules / pustules , there may or may not be a few nodulocystic lesions Very Severe Highly inflammatory lesions predominate , variable number of comedones , many papules / pustules and many nodulocystic lesions In Study 1 , a total of 1 , 252 patients were enrolled , and in Study 2 , a total of 1 , 288 patients were enrolled .
The combined results are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Efficacy Results at Week 12 in Studies 1 and 2 .
Clindamycin Phosphate and Clindamycin Tretinoin Vehicle Tretinoin Gel N = 845 N = 426 N = 846 N = 423 * Success was defined as cleared or almost cleared at Week 12 Evaluator ’ s Global Severity : N ( % ) Patients achieving success * 180 ( 21 % ) 70 ( 16 % ) 122 ( 14 % ) 34 ( 8 % ) Inflammatory Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 48 % 42 % 39 % 26 % Non - inflammatory Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 36 % 27 % 31 % 16 % Total Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 41 % 34 % 34 % 20 % In Study 3 , clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel was compared to clindamycin gel in a total of 2 , 010 patients with moderate or severe acne vulgaris ( see Table 3 ) .
As with Studies 1 and 2 , the co - primary endpoints were mean percent reduction in lesion counts ( inflammatory , non - inflammatory and total ) and the Evaluator ’ s Global Severity score .
In Study 3 , success on the EGS score was assessed by the percentage of subjects who had at least 2 grades of improvement from Baseline to Week 12 .
Table 4 : Efficacy Results at Week 12 in Study 3 Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel Clindamycin N = 1008 N = 1002 * Success was defined as at least a 2 - grade improvement at Week 12 from baseline .
Evaluator ’ s Global Severity : N ( % ) Patients achieving success * 415 ( 41 % ) 345 ( 34 % ) Inflammatory Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 61 % 55 % Non - inflammatory Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 50 % 41 % Total Lesion Count ( % reduction from baseline ) Mean 54 % 47 % 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % is supplied as follows : 30 gram tube NDC 0472 - 1790 - 30 60 gram tube NDC 0472 - 1790 - 60 Storage and Handling Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Protect from freezing .
Keep away from heat .
Keep tube tightly closed .
Keep out of the reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 4 ) .
17 . 1 Instructions for Use • At bedtime , the face should be gently washed with a mild soap and warm water .
After patting the skin dry , apply clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel as a thin layer over the entire face ( excluding the eyes and lips ) .
• Patients should be advised not to use more than the recommended pea sized amount and not to apply more often than once daily ( at bedtime ) as this will not make for faster results and may increase irritation .
• A sunscreen should be applied every morning and reapplied over the course of the day as needed .
Patients should be advised to avoid exposure to sunlight , sunlamp , ultraviolet light , and other medicines that may increase sensitivity to sunlight .
17 . 2 Skin Irritation Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may cause irritation such as erythema , scaling , itching , burning , or stinging .
17 . 3 Colitis In the event a patient treated with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel experiences severe diarrhea or gastrointestinal discomfort , clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be discontinued and a physician should be contacted .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 1 / 2020 17 . 4 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin ( klin - da - MYE - sin FOS - fate and TRET - i - noyn ) Gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % IMPORTANT : Not for mouth , eye , or vaginal use .
Read the Patient Information that comes with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your acne or treatment .
What is clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is an antibiotic and retinoid combination medicine used for the skin treatment of acne in patients 12 years and older .
Who should not use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
Do not use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel if you : • have Crohn ’ s Disease • have Ulcerative Colitis • have developed colitis with past antibiotic use Tell your doctor : • if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may harm your unborn baby .
• if you are breastfeeding .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may pass through your milk and may harm your baby .
• about all the medicines and skin products you use : • Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should not be used with erythromycin - containing products .
• Avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and skin products that contain alcohol , astringents , spices or lime .
These products may cause increased skin irritation if used with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
How should I use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
Use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel exactly as prescribed .
It may take some time for you to see improvement of your acne with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
Your doctor will tell you how long to use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
At bedtime : • Wash your face gently with a mild soap and warm water .
• Pat the skin dry .
• Apply a pea - size amount of clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel to your fingertip and spread it over your face .
Gently , smooth it into your skin .
Do not get clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel in your eyes or mouth , on your lips , on the corners of your nose , or on open wounds .
In the morning : • Apply a sunscreen and reapply during the day as needed .
• Do not apply clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel more than once a day • Do not use too much clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
Too much clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may irritate your skin .
• Do not wash your face more than 2 to 3 times a day .
Washing your face too often or scrubbing it may make your acne worse .
Avoid : • excessive exposure to the sun , cold , and wind .
Weather extremes can dry and burn the skin .
Always use a sunscreen on clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel treated skin , even on cloudy days .
Use other protective clothing such as a hat when you are in the sun .
• the use of sunlamps and tanning booths If your face becomes sunburned , stop clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel until your skin has healed .
What are possible side effects with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
• Skin irritation .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may cause skin irritation such as dryness , redness , peeling , burning , or stinging .
Stop clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel and call your doctor if your skin becomes very red , swollen , blistered , or crusted .
• Change in skin color .
Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel may cause a temporary skin color change ( lighter or darker ) .
• Colitis .
This occurs rarely .
Stop clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel and call your doctor if you develop severe watery diarrhea , or bloody diarrhea .
Talk to your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects with clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
How should I store clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
• Store clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel at room temperature , 59 to 86 ° F ( 15 to 30 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
• Keep clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel away from heat and light .
• Keep the tube tightly closed .
• Keep clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in patient information leaflet .
Do not use clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel that is written for healthcare professionals .
If you have questions about clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel you can also call Actavis at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 .
What are the ingredients in clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel ?
Active Ingredients : clindamycin phosphate , USP 1 . 2 % and tretinoin , USP 0 . 025 % Inactive Ingredients : anhydrous citric acid , butylated hydroxytoluene , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , glycerin , methylparaben , polysorbate 80 , propylparaben , purified water , tromethamine and xanthan gum .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Rev . A 1 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis NDC 0472 - 1790 - 30 Clindamycin Phosphate and Tretinoin Gel 1 . 2 % / 0 . 025 % PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Patient Information Leaflet to each patient .
Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
NET WT .
30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
