Sterile , Preservative - Free DESCRIPTION RESTASIS ® ( cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion ) 0 . 05 % contains a topical immunomodulator with anti - inflammatory effects .
Cyclosporine ' s chemical name is Cyclo [ [ ( E ) - ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 R ) - 3 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 6 - octenoyl ] - L - 2 - aminobutyryl - N - methylglycyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - valyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - L - alanyl - D - alanyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - leucyl - N - methyl - L - valyl ] and it has the following structure : Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclosporine is a fine white powder .
RESTASIS ® appears as a white opaque to slightly translucent homogeneous emulsion .
It has an osmolality of 230 to 320 mOsmol / kg and a pH of 6 . 5 - 8 . 0 .
Each mL of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion contains : Active : cyclosporine 0 . 05 % .
Inactives : glycerin ; castor oil ; polysorbate 80 ; carbomer copolymer type A ; purified water ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Cyclosporine is an immunosuppressive agent when administered systemically .
In patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca , cyclosporine emulsion is thought to act as a partial immunomodulator .
The exact mechanism of action is not known .
Pharmacokinetics Blood cyclosporin A concentrations were measured using a specific high pressure liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry assay .
Blood concentrations of cyclosporine , in all the samples collected , after topical administration of RESTASIS ® 0 . 05 % , BID , in humans for up to 12 months , were below the quantitation limit of 0 . 1 ng / mL .
There was no detectable drug accumulation in blood during 12 months of treatment with RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion .
Clinical Evaluations Four multicenter , randomized , adequate and well - controlled clinical studies were performed in approximately 1200 patients with moderate to severe keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
RESTASIS ® demonstrated statistically significant increases in Schirmer wetting of 10 mm versus vehicle at six months in patients whose tear production was presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation .
This effect was seen in approximately 15 % of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion treated patients versus approximately 5 % of vehicle treated patients .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
No increase in bacterial or fungal ocular infections was reported following administration of RESTASIS ® .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion is indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
Increased tear production was not seen in patients currently taking topical anti - inflammatory drugs or using punctal plugs .
CONTRAINDICATIONS RESTASIS ® is contraindicated in patients with active ocular infections and in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation .
WARNING RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion has not been studied in patients with a history of herpes keratitis .
PRECAUTIONS General : For ophthalmic use only .
Information for Patients The emulsion from one individual single - use vial is to be used immediately after opening for administration to one or both eyes , and the remaining contents should be discarded immediately after administration .
Do not allow the tip of the vial to touch the eye or any surface , as this may contaminate the emulsion .
RESTASIS ® should not be administered while wearing contact lenses .
Patients with decreased tear production typically should not wear contact lenses .
If contact lenses are worn , they should be removed prior to the administration of the emulsion .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following administration of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Systemic carcinogenicity studies were carried out in male and female mice and rats .
In the 78 - week oral ( diet ) mouse study , at doses of 1 , 4 , and 16 mg / kg / day , evidence of a statistically significant trend was found for lymphocytic lymphomas in females , and the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in mid - dose males significantly exceeded the control value .
In the 24 - month oral ( diet ) rat study , conducted at 0 . 5 , 2 , and 8 mg / kg / day , pancreatic islet cell adenomas significantly exceeded the control rate in the low dose level .
The hepatocellular carcinomas and pancreatic islet cell adenomas were not dose related .
The low doses in mice and rats are approximately 1000 and 500 times greater , respectively , than the daily human dose of one drop ( 28 μL ) of 0 . 05 % RESTASIS ® BID into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
Cyclosporine has not been found mutagenic / genotoxic in the Ames Test , the V79 - HGPRT Test , the micronucleus test in mice and Chinese hamsters , the chromosome - aberration tests in Chinese hamster bone - marrow , the mouse dominant lethal assay , and the DNA - repair test in sperm from treated mice .
A study analyzing sister chromatid exchange ( SCE ) induction by cyclosporine using human lymphocytes in vitro gave indication of a positive effect ( i . e . , induction of SCE ) .
No impairment in fertility was demonstrated in studies in male and female rats receiving oral doses of cyclosporine up to 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 15 , 000 times the human daily dose of 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) for 9 weeks ( male ) and 2 weeks ( female ) prior to mating .
Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category C . Teratogenic Effects : No evidence of teratogenicity was observed in rats or rabbits receiving oral doses of cyclosporine up to 300 mg / kg / day during organogenesis .
These doses in rats and rabbits are approximately 300 , 000 times greater than the daily human dose of one drop ( 28 μL ) 0 . 05 % RESTASIS ® BID into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
Non - Teratogenic Effects : Adverse effects were seen in reproduction studies in rats and rabbits only at dose levels toxic to dams .
At toxic doses ( rats at 30 mg / kg / day and rabbits at 100 mg / kg / day ) , cyclosporine oral solution , USP , was embryo - and fetotoxic as indicated by increased pre - and postnatal mortality and reduced fetal weight together with related skeletal retardations .
These doses are 30 , 000 and 100 , 000 times greater , respectively than the daily human dose of one drop ( 28 μL ) of 0 . 05 % RESTASIS ® BID into each eye of a 60 kg person ( 0 . 001 mg / kg / day ) , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
No evidence of embryofetal toxicity was observed in rats or rabbits receiving cyclosporine at oral doses up to 17 mg / kg / day or 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , during organogenesis .
These doses in rats and rabbits are approximately 17 , 000 and 30 , 000 times greater , respectively , than the daily human dose .
Offspring of rats receiving a 45 mg / kg / day oral dose of cyclosporine from Day 15 of pregnancy until Day 21 postpartum , a maternally toxic level , exhibited an increase in postnatal mortality ; this dose is 45 , 000 times greater than the daily human topical dose , 0 . 001 mg / kg / day , assuming that the entire dose is absorbed .
No adverse events were observed at oral doses up to 15 mg / kg / day ( 15 , 000 times greater than the daily human dose ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of RESTASIS ® in pregnant women .
RESTASIS ® should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Cyclosporine is known to be excreted in human milk following systemic administration but excretion in human milk after topical treatment has not been investigated .
Although blood concentrations are undetectable after topical administration of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion , caution should be exercised when RESTASIS ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 16 .
Geriatric Use No overall difference in safety or effectiveness has been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse event following the use of RESTASIS ® was ocular burning ( 17 % ) .
Other events reported in 1 % to 5 % of patients included conjunctival hyperemia , discharge , epiphora , eye pain , foreign body sensation , pruritus , stinging , and visual disturbance ( most often blurring ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Invert the unit dose vial a few times to obtain a uniform , white , opaque emulsion before using .
Instill one drop of RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion twice a day in each eye approximately 12 hours apart .
RESTASIS ® can be used concomitantly with artificial tears , allowing a 15 minute interval between products .
Discard vial immediately after use .
HOW SUPPLIED RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion is packaged in single use vials .
Each vial contains 0 . 4 mL fill in a 0 . 9 mL LDPE vial ; 30 vials are packaged in a polypropylene tray with an aluminum peelable lid .
The entire contents of each tray ( 30 vials ) must be dispensed intact .
RESTASIS ® is also provided in a 60 count ( 2 x 30 ) package ( one month supply ) that must be dispensed intact .
30 Vials 0 . 4 mL each - NDC 54868 - 4793 - 1 Storage : Store RESTASIS ® ophthalmic emulsion at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx Only Revised : 02 / 2010 © 2010 Allergan , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . ® marks owned by Allergan , Inc .
U . S . Patent 5 , 474 , 979 Made in the U . S . A . 71876US14B Relabeling of " Additional " bar code label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Label – NDC 54868 - 4793 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Restasis ( Cyclosporine Ophthalmic Emulsion ) 0 . 05 % 30 Single - Use Vials ( 0 . 4 mL each ) Each mL contains : Active : cyclosporine 0 . 05 % Inactives : glycerin ; castor oil ; polysorbate 80 ; carbomer copolymer type A ; purified water ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH . Usual Dosage : Twice daily approximately 12 hours apart .
Invert the vial before using .
Use immediately after opening and then discard .
Note : Store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) .
Store vials in the thermoformed tray until use .
The entire contents of each package ( 60 vials ) must be dispensed intact .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
