DESCRIPTION Nitroglycerin is 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol trinitrate , an organic nitrate whose structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and whose molecular weight is 227 . 09 .
The organic nitrates are vasodilators , active on both arteries and veins .
The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is a flat unit designed to provide continuous controlled release of nitroglycerin through intact skin .
The rate of release of nitroglycerin is linearly dependent upon the area of the applied system ; each cm2 of applied system delivers approximately 0 . 02 mg of nitroglycerin per hour .
Thus , the 5 - , 10 - , 15 - , 20 - , 30 - and 40 cm2 systems deliver approximately 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 3 , 0 . 4 , 0 . 6 and 0 . 8 mg of nitroglycerin per hour , respectively .
The remainder of the nitroglycerin in each system serves as a reservoir and is not delivered in normal use .
After 12 hours , for example , each system has delivered approximately 6 % of its original content of nitroglycerin .
The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system contains nitroglycerin in acrylic - based polymer adhesives with a resinous cross - linking agent to provide a continuous source of active ingredient .
Each unit is sealed in a paper polyethylene - foil pouch .
Cross section of the system .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and consequent dilatation of peripheral arteries and veins , especially the latter .
Dilatation of the veins promotes peripheral pooling of blood and decreases venous return to the heart , thereby reducing left ventricular end - diastolic pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( preload ) .
Arteriolar relaxation reduces systemic vascular resistance , systolic arterial pressure , and mean arterial pressure ( afterload ) .
Dilatation of the coronary arteries also occurs .
The relative importance of preload reduction , afterload reduction , and coronary dilatation remains undefined .
Dosing regimens for most chronically used drugs are designed to provide plasma concentrations that are continuously greater than a minimally effective concentration .
This strategy is inappropriate for organic nitrates .
Several well - controlled clinical trials have used exercise testing to assess the antianginal efficacy of continuously delivered nitrates .
In the large majority of these trials , active agents were indistinguishable from placebo after 24 hours ( or less ) of continuous therapy .
Attempts to overcome nitrate tolerance by dose escalation , even to doses far in excess of those used acutely , have consistently failed .
Only after nitrates have been absent from the body for several hours has their antianginal efficacy been restored .
Pharmacokinetics : The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is about 3 L / kg , and nitroglycerin is cleared from this volume at extremely rapid rates , with a resulting serum half - life of about 3 minutes .
The observed clearance rates ( close to 1 L / kg / min ) greatly exceed hepatic blood flow ; known sites of extrahepatic metabolism include red blood cells and vascular walls .
The first products in the metabolism of nitroglycerin are inorganic nitrate and the 1 , 2 - and 1 , 3 - dinitroglycerols .
The dinitrates are less effective vasodilators than nitroglycerin , but they are longer - lived in the serum , and their net contribution to the overall effect of chronic nitroglycerin regimens is not known .
The dinitrates are further metabolized to ( nonvasoactive ) mononitrates and , ultimately , to glycerol and carbon dioxide .
To avoid development of tolerance to nitroglycerin , drug - free intervals of 10 to 12 hours are known to be sufficient ; shorter intervals have not been well studied .
In one well - controlled clinical trial , subjects receiving nitroglycerin appeared to exhibit a rebound or withdrawal effect , so that their exercise tolerance at the end of the daily drug - free interval was less than that exhibited by the parallel group receiving placebo .
In healthy volunteers , steady - state plasma concentrations of nitroglycerin are reached by about 2 hours after application of a patch and are maintained for the duration of wearing the system ( observations have been limited to 24 hours ) .
Upon removal of the patch , the plasma concentration declines with a half - life of about an hour .
Clinical Trials : Regimens in which nitroglycerin patches were worn for 12 hours daily have been studied in wellcontrolled trials up to 4 weeks in duration .
Starting about 2 hours after application and continuing until 10 to 12 hours after application , patches that deliver at least 0 . 4 mg of nitroglycerin per hour have consistently demonstrated greater antianginal activity than placebo .
Lower - dose patches have not been as well studied , but in one large , well - controlled trial in which higher - dose patches were also studied , patches delivering 0 . 2 mg / hr had significantly less antianginal activity than placebo .
It is reasonable to believe that the rate of nitroglycerin absorption from patches may vary with the site of application , but this relationship has not been adequately studied .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Transdermal nitroglycerin is indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease .
The onset of action of transdermal nitroglycerin is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute attack .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nitroglycerin is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it .
Allergy to the adhesives used in nitroglycerin patches has also been reported , and it similarly constitutes a contraindication to the use of this product .
Do not use nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system in patients who are taking phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( such as sildenafil , tadalafil , or vardenafil ) for erectile dysfunction or pulmonary arterial hypertension .
Concomitant use can cause severe drops in blood pressure .
Do not use nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator riociguat .
Concomitant use can cause hypotension .
WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of the nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system patch by phosphodiesterase inhibitors , eg , sildenafil can result in severe hypotension .
The time course and dose dependence of this inter action have not been studied .
Appropriate supportive care has not been studied , but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose , with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion .
The benefits of transdermal nitroglycerin in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established .
If one elects to use nitroglycerin in these conditions , careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia .
A cardioverter / defibrillator should not be discharged through a paddle electrode that overlies a nitroglycerin patch .
The arcing that may be seen in this situation is harmless in itself , but it may be associated with local current concentration that can cause damage to the paddles and burns to the patient .
PRECAUTIONS General : Severe hypotension , particularly with upright posture , may occur with even small doses of nitroglycerin , particularly in the elderly .
The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system should therefore be used with caution in elderly patients who may be volume - depleted , are on multiple medications , or who , for whatever reason , are already hypotensive .
Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris .
Elderly patients may be more susceptible to hypotension and may be at greater risk of falling at the therapeutic doses of nitroglycerin .
Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , particularly in the elderly .
In industrial workers who have had long - term exposure to unknown ( presumably high ) doses of organic nitrates , tolerance clearly occurs .
Chest pain , acute myocardial infarction , and even sudden death have occurred during temporary withdrawal of nitrates from these workers , demonstrating the existence of true physical dependence .
Several clinical trials in patients with angina pectoris have evaluated nitroglycerin regimens which incorporated a 10 - to 12 - hour , nitrate - free interval .
In some of these trials , an increase in the frequency of anginal attacks during the nitrate - free interval was observed in a small number of patients .
In one trial , patients had decreased exercise tolerance at the end of the nitrate - free interval .
Hemodynamic rebound has been observed only rarely ; on the other hand , few studies were so designed that rebound , if it had occurred , would have been detected .
The importance of these observations to the routine , clinical use of transdermal nitroglycerin is unknown .
Information for Patients : Daily headaches sometimes accompany treatment with nitroglycerin .
In patients who get these headaches , the headaches may be a marker of the activity of the drug .
Patients should resist the temptation to avoid headaches by altering the schedule of their treatment with nitroglycerin , since loss of headache may be associated with simultaneous loss of antianginal efficacy .
Treatment with nitroglycerin may be associated with lightheadedness on standing , especially just after rising from a recumbent or seated position .
This effect may be more frequent in patients who have also consumed alcohol .
After normal use , there is enough residual nitroglycerin in discarded patches that they are a potential hazard to children and pets .
A patient leaflet is supplied with the systems .
Drug Interactions : The vasodilating effects of nitroglycerin may be additive with those of other vasodilators .
Alcohol , in particular , has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety .
Concomitant use of nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system with phosphodiesterase inhibitors in any form is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Concomitant use of nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system with riociguat , a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator , is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Animal carcinogenesis studies with topically applied nitroglycerin have not been performed .
Rats receiving up to 434 mg / kg / day of dietary nitroglycerin for 2 years developed dose - related fibrotic and neoplastic changes in liver , including carcinomas , and interstitial cell tumors in testes .
At high dose , the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes were 52 % vs 0 % in controls , and incidences of testicular tumors were 52 % vs 8 % in controls .
Lifetime dietary administration of up to 1058 mg / kg / day of nitroglycerin was not tumorigenic in mice .
Nitroglycerin was weakly mutagenic in Ames tests performed in two different laboratories .
Nevertheless , there was no evidence of mutagenicity in an in vivo dominant lethal assay with male rats treated with doses up to about 363 mg / kg / day , po , or in in vitro cytogenetic tests in rat and dog tissues .
In a three - generation reproduction study , rats received dietary nitroglycerin at doses up to about 434 mg / kg / day for 6 months prior to mating of the F0 generation with treatment continuing through successive F1 and F2 generations .
The high dose was associated with decreased feed intake and body weight gain in both sexes at all matings .
No specific effect on the fertility of the F0 generation was seen .
Infertility noted in subsequent generations , however , was attributed to increased interstitial cell tissue and aspermatogenesis in the high - dose males .
In this three - generation study there was no clear evidence of teratogenicity .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Animal teratology studies have not been conducted with nitroglycerin transdermal systems .
Teratology studies in rats and rabbits , however , were conducted with topically applied nitroglycerin ointment at doses up to 80 mg / kg / day and 240 mg / kg / day , respectively .
No toxic effects on dams or fetuses were seen at any dose tested .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nitroglycerin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether nitroglycerin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nitroglycerin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of nitroglycerin transdermal infusion systemm did not include sufficient information to determine whether subjects 65 years and older respond differently from younger subjects .
Additional clinical data from the published literature indicate that the elderly demonstrate increased sensitivity to nitrates , which may result in hypotension and increased risk of falling .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of the decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions to nitroglycerin are generally dose related , and almost all of these reactions are the result of nitroglycerin ' s activity as a vasodilator .
Headache , which may be severe , is the most commonly reported side effect .
Headache may be recurrent with each daily dose , especially at higher doses .
Transient episodes of lightheadedness , occasionally related to blood pressure changes , may also occur .
Hypotension occurs infrequently , but in some patients it may be severe enough to warrant discontinuation of therapy .
Syncope , crescendo angina , and rebound hypertension have been reported but are uncommon .
Allergic reactions to nitroglycerin are also uncommon , and the great majority of those reported have been cases of contact dermatitis or fixed drug eruptions in patients receiving nitroglycerin in ointments or patches .
There have been a few reports of genuine anaphylactoid reactions , and these reactions can probably occur in patients receiving nitroglycerin by any route .
Extremely rarely , ordinary doses of organic nitrates have caused methemoglobinemia in normal - seeming patients .
Methemoglobinemia is so infrequent at these doses that further discussion of its diagnosis and treatment is deferred ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Application - site irritation may occur but is rarely severe .
In two placebo - controlled trials of intermittent therapy with nitroglycerin patches at 0 . 2 to 0 . 8 mg / hr , the most frequent adverse reactions among 307 subjects were as follows : Placebo Patch Headache 18 % 63 % Lightheadedness 4 % 6 % Hypotension , and / or Syncope 0 % 4 % Increased Angina 2 % 2 % To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact USpharma Ltd at 1 ( 844 ) - 750 - 3729 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Hemodynamic Effects : Nitroglycerin toxicity is generally mild .
The estimated adult oral lethal dose of nitroglycerin is 200 mg to 1 , 200 mg .
Infants may be more susceptible to toxicity from nitroglycerin .
Consultation with a poison center should be considered .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of nitroglycerin and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of nitroglycerin overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( eg , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of nitroglycerin and its active metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which – if any – of these substances can usefully be removed from the body by hemodialysis .
No specific antagonist to the vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin is known , and no intervention has been subject to controlled study as a therapy of nitroglycerin overdose .
Because the hypotension associated with nitroglycerin overdose is the result of venodilatation and arterial hypovolemia , prudent therapy in this situation should be directed toward increase in central fluid volume .
Passive elevation of the patient ’ s legs may be sufficient , but intravenous infusion of normal saline or similar fluid may also be necessary .
The use of epinephrine or other arterial vasoconstrictors in this setting is likely to do more harm than good .
In patients with renal disease or congestive heart failure , therapy resulting in central volume expansion is not without hazard .
Treatment of nitroglycerin overdose in these patients may be subtle and difficult , and invasive monitoring may be required .
Methemoglobinemia : Nitrate ions liberated during metabolism of nitroglycerin can oxidize hemoglobin into methemoglobin .
Even in patients totally without cytochrome b5 reductase activity , however , and even assuming that the nitrate moieties of nitroglycerin are quantitatively applied to oxidation of hemoglobin , about 1 mg / kg of nitroglycerin should be required before any of these patients manifests clinically significant ( 310 % ) methemoglobinemia .
In patients with normal reductase function , significant production of methemoglobin should require even larger doses of nitroglycerin .
In one study in which 36 patients received 2 to 4 weeks of continuous nitroglycerin therapy at 3 . 1 to 4 . 4 mg / hr , the average methemoglobin level measured was 0 . 2 % ; this was comparable to that observed in parallel patients who received placebo .
Notwithstanding these observations , there are case reports of significant methemoglobinemia in association with moderate overdoses of organic nitrates .
None of the affected patients had been thought to be unusually susceptible .
Methemoglobin levels are available from most clinical laboratories .
The diagnosis should be suspected in patients who exhibit signs of impaired oxygen delivery despite adequate cardiac output and adequate arterial PO2 .
Classically , methemoglobinemic blood is described as chocolate brown , without color change on exposure to air .
Methemoglobinemia should be treated with methylene blue if the patient develops cardiac or CNS effects of hypoxia .
The initial dose is 1 to 2 mg / kg infused intravenously over 5 minutes .
Repeat methemoglobin levels should be obtained 30 minutes later and a repeat dose of 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 mg / kg may be used if the level remains elevated and the patient is still symptomatic .
Relative contraindications for methylene blue include known NADH methemoglobin reductase deficiency or G - 6 - PD deficiency .
Infants under the age of 4 months may not respond to methylene blue due to immature NADH methemoglobin reductase .
Exchange transfusion has been used successfully in critically ill patients when methemoglobinemia is refractory to treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The suggested starting dose is between 0 . 2 mg / hr * and 0 . 4 mg / hr * .
Doses between 0 . 4 mg / hr * and 0 . 8 mg / hr * have shown continued effectiveness for 10 to 12 hours daily for at least 1 month ( the longest period studied ) of intermittent administration .
Although the minimum nitrate - free interval has not been defined , data show that a nitrate - free interval of 10 to 12 hours is sufficient ( see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ) .
Thus , an appropriate dosing schedule for nitroglycerin patches would include a daily patch - on period of 12 to 14 hours and a daily patch - off period of 10 to 12 hours .
* Release rates were formerly described in terms of drug delivered per 24 hours .
In these terms , the supplied nitroglycerin transdermal system would be rated at 2 . 5 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 1 mg / hour ) , 5 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 2 mg / hour ) , 7 . 5 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 3 mg / hour ) , 10 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 4 mg / hour ) , and 15 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 6 mg / hour ) .
Although some well - controlled clinical trials using exercise tolerance testing have shown maintenance of effectiveness when patches are worn continuously , the large majority of such controlled trials have shown the development of tolerance ( ie , complete loss of effect ) within the first 24 hours after therapy was initiated .
Dose adjustment , even to levels much higher than generally used , did not restore efficacy .
HOW SUPPLIED Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System Rated Release In Vivo * Total nitroglycerin content System size Package Size 0 . 1 mg / hr 20 mg 5 cm2 Unit Dose 30 ( NDC 43598 - 896 - 11 ) Package 30 ( NDC 43598 - 896 - 30 ) 0 . 2 mg / hr 40 mg 10 cm2 Unit Dose 30 ( NDC 43598 - 895 - 11 ) Package 30 ( NDC 43598 - 895 - 30 ) 0 . 4 mg / hr 80 mg 20 cm2 Unit Dose 30 ( NDC 43598 - 894 - 11 ) Package 30 ( NDC 43598 - 894 - 30 ) 0 . 6 mg / hr 120 mg 30 cm2 Unit Dose 30 ( NDC 43598 - 893 - 11 ) Package 30 ( NDC 43598 - 893 - 30 ) * Release rates were formerly described in terms of drug delivered per 24 hours .
In these terms , the supplied nitroglycerin transdermal system would be rated at 2 . 5 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 1 mg / hour ) , 5 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 2 mg / hour ) , 10 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 4 mg / hour ) , and 15 mg / 24 hours ( 0 . 6 mg / hour ) .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not refrigerate .
Manufactured for : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories , Inc Princeton , NJ 08540 Revised : 1019 Rx only Please read this instruction on sheet carefully before using nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system Information for the Patient About — Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System Summary The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is a unique method of administering nitroglycerin to the bloodstream .
Nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system eliminates the swallowing of pills or the application of a messy ointment .
Nitroglycerin is a medication your doctor has prescribed for you to help reduce the frequency and severity of angina attacks ( chest pain ) .
How your nitroglycein transdermal infusion system works Nitroglycerin causes the veins ( vessels that return blood to the heart ) to relax so that the work load of the heart is reduced .
This lowers the heart ' s oxygen needs .
As a result , the heart muscle is well nourished and the frequency of angina attacks is reduced .
Nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is applied directly to the skin .
The nitroglycerin passes from the adhesive surface through the skin — allowing medication to be absorbed directly into the bloodstream .
This manner of delivering medicine to your bloodstream provides you with nitroglycerin with one daily application of a nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system unit .
Instructions for use Placement area Select a reasonably hair - free application site .
Avoid extremities below the knee or elbow , skin folds , scar tissue , burned or irritated areas .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Application Wash hands before applying .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Hold the unit with brown lines facing you , in an up and down position .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Bend the sides of unit away from you , then toward you until you hear the " SNAP " .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Peel off one side of the plastic backing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using the other half of the backing as a handle , apply the sticky side of the patch to the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Press the sticky side on the skin , and smooth down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Fold back the remaining side of the patch .
Grasp the edge of the plastic applicator by the stripe , and pull it across the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash hands to remove any drug .
Removal [ MULTIMEDIA ] Press down on the center of the system to raise its outer edge away from the skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Grasp the edge gently , and slowly peel the unit away from skin .
Wash skin area with soap and water .
Towel dry .
Wash hands .
You may use a different application site every day .
Skin care • After you remove the nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system , your skin may feel warm and appear red .
This is normal .
The redness will disappear in a short time .
If the area feels dry , you may apply a soothing lotion .
• Any redness or rash that does not disappear should be called to your doctor ' s attention .
Cautions If your doctor has prescribed " under - the - tongue " nitroglycerin tablets in addition to the nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system , you should sit down before taking the " under - the - tongue " tablet .
If dizziness should occur , notify your doctor .
This may be an indication that the " under - the - tongue " tablet dosage needs to be reduced .
Possible side effects The most common side effect experienced by people taking nitroglycerin is headache .
Your doctor may tell you to take a mild analgesic to relieve the headache .
Some people may experience dizziness .
This is due to a slight decrease in blood pressure , which is usually experienced when a person changes position , from lying flat to sitting upright or from sitting to standing .
If this occurs , sit down until the dizziness stops , then notify your doctor .
He or she may wish to reduce your nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system dosage .
In some people , nitroglycerin preparations may cause the skin to feel flushed or the heart to beat faster .
If this should occur , notify your doctor ; again , he or she may wish to change your nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system dosage .
The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is a unique drug that depends on direct contact with the skin to work .
For this reason , the skin should be reasonably hair - free , clean , and dry .
Other information • Allow nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system to stay in place as directed by your doctor .
• Showering is permitted with nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system in place .
• The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system should be kept out of reach of children and pets .
• Store at room temperature 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is boxed so that you have a 30 - day supply .
Be sure to check your supply periodically .
Before it runs low , you should visit your pharmacist for a refill or ask your doctor to renew your nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system prescription .
• It is important that you do not miss a day of your nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system therapy .
If your schedule needs to be changed , your doctor will give you special instructions .
• The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system has been prescribed for you .
Do not give your medication to anyone else .
• The nitroglycerin transdermal infusion system is for prevention of angina ; not for treatment of an acute angina attack .
• Notify your doctor if angina attacks change for the worse .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] You must consult your doctor for important information before using this drug .
Manufactured for : Dr . Reddy ' s Laboratories , Inc Princeton , NJ 08540 Revised : 1019 Rx only 58259808 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Pouch Box NDC 43598 - 896 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System 0 . 1 mg / hr ( 5 cm2 ) Each unit contains 20 mg of nitroglycerin in acrylic - based polymer adhesives with a resinous cross - linking agent .
Rated release in vivo 0 . 1 mg / hr .
Patient : See instruction on back panel .
Rx only Contents : 30 units [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Pouch Box NDC 43598 - 895 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System 0 . 2 mg / hr ( 10 cm2 ) Each unit contains 40 mg of nitroglycerin in acrylic - based polymer adhesives with a resinous cross - linking agent .
Rated release in vivo 0 . 2 mg / hr .
Patient : See instruction on back panel .
Rx only Contents : 30 units [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg Pouch Box NDC 43598 - 894 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System 0 . 4 mg / hr ( 20 cm2 ) Each unit contains 80 mg of nitroglycerin in acrylic - based polymer adhesives with a resinous cross - linking agent .
Rated release in vivo 0 . 4 mg / hr .
Patient : See instruction on back panel .
Rx only Contents : 30 units [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 120 mg Pouch Box NDC 43598 - 893 - 30 Nitroglycerin Transdermal Infusion System 0 . 6 mg / hr ( 30 cm2 ) Each unit contains 120 mg of nitroglycerin in acrylic - based polymer adhesives with a resinous cross - linking agent .
Rated release in vivo 0 . 6 mg / hr .
Patient : See instruction on back panel .
Rx only Contents : 30 units [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
