1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PANHEMATIN is a hemin for injection indicated for the amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent porphyria temporally related to the menstrual cycle in susceptible women , after initial carbohydrate therapy is known or suspected to be inadequate .
Limitations of Use • • Before administering PANHEMATIN , consider an appropriate period of carbohydrate loading ( i . e . , 400 g glucose / day for 1 to 2 days ) [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• • Attacks of porphyria may progress to a point where irreversible neuronal damage has occurred .
PANHEMATIN therapy is intended to prevent an attack from reaching the critical stage of neuronal degeneration .
PANHEMATIN is not effective in repairing neuronal damage .
PANHEMATIN is a hemin for injection indicated for amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent porphyria temporally related to the menstrual cycle in susceptible women , after initial carbohydrate therapy is known or suspected to be inadequate .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use • • Before administering PANHEMATIN , consider an appropriate period of carbohydrate loading ( i . e . , 400 g glucose / day for 1 to 2 days ) .
( 1 ) • • PANHEMATIN is not effective in repairing neuronal damage due to progression of porphyria attacks .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous infusion only .
For intravenous infusion only .
• • Dose ( 2 . 1 ) • o1 to 4 mg / kg / day for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs .
The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg / kg / day .
• oRepeat dose in more severe cases no earlier than every 12 hours .
Do not exceed 6 mg / kg in any 24 hour period .
• • Administration ( 2 . 2 ) • oUse sterile 0 . 45 micron or smaller filter to remove any undissolved particulate matter .
• oThe dose may be administered directly from the vial over a period of at least 30 minutes .
• oAfter the infusion , flush the vein with 100 mL of 0 . 9 % NaCl .
• Dose ( 2 . 1 ) • 1 to 4 mg / kg / day for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs .
The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg / kg / day .
• Repeat dose in more severe cases no earlier than every 12 hours .
Do not exceed 6 mg / kg in any 24 hour period .
• Administration ( 2 . 2 ) • Use sterile 0 . 45 micron or smaller filter to remove any undissolved particulate matter .
• The dose may be administered directly from the vial over a period of at least 30 minutes .
• After the infusion , flush the vein with 100 mL of 0 . 9 % NaCl .
2 . 1 Dosing • • PANHEMATIN should only be used by or in consultation with physicians experienced in the management of porphyrias .
• • Before PANHEMATIN therapy is begun , the presence of acute porphyria must be diagnosed using the following criteria : • 1 .
Presence of clinical symptoms suggestive of acute porphyric attack .
• 2 .
Quantitative measurement of porphobilinogen ( PBG ) in urine .
The single - void urine sample should be refrigerated or frozen without additives and shielded from light for subsequent quantitative δ - aminolevulinic acid ( ALA ) , PBG , and total porphyrin determinations .
( Note : the classical Watson - Schwartz or Hoesch tests are considered to be less reliable ) .
• • Clinical benefit from PANHEMATIN depends on prompt administration .
For mild porphyric attacks ( mild pain , no vomiting , no paralysis , no hyponatremia , no seizures ) , a trial of glucose therapy is recommended while awaiting hemin treatment or if hemin is unavailable .
For moderate to severe attacks , immediate hemin treatment is recommended .
Symptoms of severe attacks are severe or prolonged pain , persistent vomiting , hyponatremia , convulsion , psychosis , and neuropathy .
In addition to treatment with PANHEMATIN , consider other necessary measures such as the elimination of triggering factors .
• • The dose of PANHEMATIN is 1 to 4 mg / kg / day of hematin for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs .
The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg / kg / day .
In more severe cases this dose may be repeated no earlier than every 12 hours .
Do not exceed 6 mg / kg of hematin in any 24 hour period .
After reconstitution each mL of PANHEMATIN contains the equivalent of approximately 7 mg of hematin ( see dosage calculation table below ) .
Dosage Calculation Table 1 mg hematin equivalent = 0 . 14 mL PANHEMATIN 2 mg hematin equivalent = 0 . 28 mL PANHEMATIN 3 mg hematin equivalent = 0 . 42 mL PANHEMATIN 4 mg hematin equivalent = 0 . 56 mL PANHEMATIN • • Monitor urinary concentrations of the following compounds during PANHEMATIN therapy .
Effectiveness is demonstrated by a decrease in one or more of the following compounds .
ALA - δ - aminolevulinic acid PBG - porphobilinogen Uroporphyrin Coproporphyrin 2 . 2 Preparation and Administration • • Because PANHEMATIN contains no preservative and undergoes rapid chemical decomposition in solution , it must be reconstituted immediately before use .
• • Reconstitute PANHEMATIN by aseptically adding 48 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , to the dispensing vial .
Shake the vial well for a period of 2 to 3 minutes to aid dissolution .
• • PANHEMATIN may be administered directly from the vial .
After the first withdrawal from the vial , discard any solution remaining .
• • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Since reconstituted PANHEMATIN is not transparent , any undissolved particulate matter is difficult to see when inspected visually .
Therefore , terminal filtration through a sterile 0 . 45 micron or smaller filter is recommended .
• • Do not add other drug or chemical agent to a PANHEMATIN fluid admixture .
• • Infuse the dose over a period of at least 30 minutes via a separate line .
• • After the infusion , flush the vein with 100 mL of 0 . 9 % NaCl .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS PANHEMATIN is available as a sterile , lyophilized black powder in single dose dispensing vials .
Each vial contains the equivalent of 350 mg hemin , 240 mg sodium carbonate and 335 mg of sorbitol .
When mixed as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , each 48 mL provides the equivalent of approximately 336 mg hematin ( 7 mg / mL ) .
PANHEMATIN is available as a sterile , lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection .
Each vial contains the equivalent of 350 mg hemin , 240 mg sodium carbonate and 335 mg of sorbitol .
When mixed as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , each 48 mL provides the equivalent of approximately 336 mg hematin ( 7 mg / mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PANHEMATIN is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to this drug .
Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to PANHEMATIN .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Phlebitis is possible .
Utilize a large arm vein or a central venous catheter for administration to minimize the risk of phlebitis .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Elevated iron and serum ferritin may occur .
Monitor iron and serum ferritin in patients receiving multiple administrations of PANHEMATIN .
( 5 . 2 ) • • PANHEMATIN has transient and mild anticoagulant effect .
Avoid concurrent anticoagulant therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Reversible renal shutdown has been observed with an excessive hematin dose ( 12 . 2 mg / kg in a single infusion ) .
Strictly follow recommended dosage guidelines .
( 5 . 4 ) • • PANHEMATIN may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents , e . g . , viruses , and theoretically , the Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) agent .
( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Phlebitis A large arm vein or a central venous catheter should be utilized for the administration of PANHEMATIN to minimize the risk of phlebitis .
Since reconstituted PANHEMATIN is not transparent , any undissolved particulate matter is difficult to see when inspected visually .
Therefore , terminal filtration through a sterile 0 . 45 micron or smaller filter is recommended .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] 5 . 2 Iron and Serum Ferritin Because increased levels of iron and serum ferritin have been reported in post - marketing experience , physicians must monitor iron and serum ferritin in patients receiving multiple administrations of PANHEMATIN [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
In case of elevated iron or serum ferritin levels , consider iron chelation therapy .
5 . 3 Anticoagulant Effects Because PANHEMATIN has exhibited transient , mild anticoagulant effects during clinical studies , avoid concurrent anticoagulant therapy .
The extent and duration of the hypocoagulable state induced by PANHEMATIN has not been established .
5 . 4 Renal Effects Recommended dosage guidelines should be strictly followed .
Reversible renal shutdown has been observed in a case where an excessive hematin dose ( 12 . 2 mg / kg ) was administered in a single infusion .
Oliguria and increased nitrogen retention occurred although the patient remained asymptomatic .
No worsening of renal function has been seen with administration of recommended dosages of hematin .
5 . 5 Transmissible Infectious Agents Because PANHEMATIN is made from human blood , it may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents , e . g . , viruses , the variant Creutzfeldt - Jacob disease ( vCJD ) agent , and theoretically the Creutzfeldt - Jacob disease ( CJD ) agent .
The risk that this product may transmit an infectious agent has been reduced by screening blood donors for prior exposure to certain viruses , by testing for the presence of certain current virus infections , and by inactivating certain viruses .
Despite these measures , this product can still potentially transmit disease .
There is also the possibility that unknown infectious agents may be present in the product .
All infections thought by a physician possibly to have been transmitted by this product should be reported by the physician or other healthcare provider to Recordati Rare Diseases at 1 - 888 - 575 - 8344 .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( occurring in > 1 % of patients ) are : headache , pyrexia , infusion site reactions , and phlebitis .
Most common adverse reactions in > 1 % of patients are headache , pyrexia , infusion site reactions , and phlebitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . at 1 - 888 - 575 - 8344 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of PANHEMATIN use was evaluated in a compassionate use study .
A total of 130 patients were treated with hemin for acute attacks , prophylaxis or both .
Of those , 111 patients were administered hemin for treatment of 305 acute porphyria attacks and to 40 patients for prophylaxis .
The majority ( 92 % ) of patients were Caucasian .
Most ( 72 % ) were female ; all adult patients had a mean age ± SD of 40 . 3 ± 12 . 3 years .
Proportionally more females ( 15 out of 19 ) received prophylaxis or a combination of acute treatment and prophylaxis ( 19 out of 21 ) .
For the treatment of acute attacks , patients received 2 to 4 mg / kg / day PANHEMATIN intravenously for 1 to 9 doses .
For prophylaxis patients , the most common doses were weekly or biweekly infusions .
Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions occurring in > 1 % of patients treated with PANHEMATIN , categorized by body system and order of decreasing frequency .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in > 1 % of Patients Treated with PANHEMATINSystem Organ Class Preferred Term Adverse Events N ( % of Total Adverse Events ) Description Total Possibly or Probably Related to Treatment Infections and infestations Cellulitis 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) 2 ( 1 . 0 % ) Nervous System Disorders Headache 18 ( 9 . 2 % ) 5 ( 2 . 6 % ) Vascular Disorders Phlebitis / Injection site phlebitis 7 ( 3 . 6 % ) 6 ( 3 . 1 % ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Pyrexia 9 ( 4 . 6 % ) 6 ( 3 . 1 % ) Catheter - related Complication 7 ( 3 . 6 % ) 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions associated with the use of PANHEMATIN were identified in open - label clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : thrombocytopenia , coagulopathy ( including prolonged prothrombin time and prolonged partial thromboplastin time ) , and hemolysis Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions including a report of infusion - related anaphylactoid reaction presenting as circulatory collapse Vascular Disorders : injection site venous thrombosis including some that occurred in large veins such as venae cavae General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : infusion site reactions ( such as erythema , pain , bleeding and extravasation ) Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : iron overload and serum ferritin increased [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS PANHEMATIN therapy is intended to limit the rate of porphyria / heme biosynthesis possibly by inhibiting the enzyme δ - aminolevulinic acid synthetase 1 ( ALAS1 ) [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Most of the heme synthesized in liver is used for the production of cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes .
Therefore , avoid CYP inducing drugs ( such as estrogens , barbituric acid derivatives and steroid metabolites ) while on PANHEMATIN therapy , because these drugs increase the activity of ALAS leading to induction of ALAS1 through a feedback mechanism .
Avoid CYP inducing drugs such as estrogens , barbituric acid derivatives and steroid metabolites which induce δ - aminolevulinic acid synthetase 1 ( ALAS1 ) through a feedback mechanism .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary About 50 % of the women with acute intermittent porphyria experience an acute attack of porphyria in pregnancy and / or the puerperium .
It is most severe in early pregnancy and the puerperium , and can result in fatal outcome .
Although anecdotal evidence suggests safe use of hematin during pregnancy , the available human data is not sufficient to establish the presence or absence of drug - associated risk .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with hematin .
It is also not known whether hematin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
PANHEMATIN should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Avoid administering hematin in severe pre - eclampsia because of a theoretical risk of potentiation of the coagulation disorder [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for PANHEMATIN and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from PANHEMATIN or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 16 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical data for subjects aged 65 and over was not sufficient to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Reversible renal shutdown has been observed in a case where an excessive hematin dose ( 12 . 2 mg / kg ) was administered in a single infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Treatment of this case consisted of ethacrynic acid and mannitol .
11 DESCRIPTION PANHEMATIN ( hemin for injection ) is an enzyme inhibitor derived from processed red blood cells .
Hemin for injection was known previously as hematin .
The term hematin has been used to describe the chemical reaction product of hemin and sodium carbonate solution .
Hemin and hematin are iron containing metalloporphyrin complexes with either bound chloride or hydroxide ions , respectively .
Chemically hemin is represented as chloro [ 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethyl - 21 H , 23 H - porphine - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ( 2 - ) - N21 , N22 , N23 , N24 ] iron .
The structural formula for hemin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PANHEMATIN is formatted as a sterile , lyophilized powder for intravenous administration after reconstitution .
Each dispensing vial of PANHEMATIN contains the equivalent of 350 mg hemin , 240 mg sodium carbonate and 335 mg of sorbitol .
The pH may have been adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
When mixed as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , USP , each 48 mL provides the equivalent of approximately 336 mg hematin ( 7 mg / mL ) .
The product contains no preservatives .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Heme acts to limit the hepatic and / or marrow synthesis of porphyrin .
This action is likely due to the inhibition of δ - aminolevulinic acid synthetase , the enzyme which limits the rate of the porphyrin / heme biosynthetic pathway .
The exact mechanism by which hematin produces symptomatic improvement in patients with acute episodes of the hepatic porphyrias has not been elucidated .
PANHEMATIN therapy for the acute porphyrias is not curative .
After discontinuation of PANHEMATIN treatment , symptoms generally return although in some cases remission is prolonged .
Some neurological symptoms have improved weeks to months after therapy although little or no response was noted at the time of treatment .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following intravenous administration of hematin in non - jaundiced human patients , an increase in fecal urobilinogen can be observed which is roughly proportional to the amount of hematin administered .
This suggests an enterohepatic pathway as at least one route of elimination .
Bilirubin metabolites are also excreted in the urine following hematin injections .
Other aspects of human pharmacokinetics have not been defined .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility PANHEMATIN was not mutagenic in bacteria systems in vitro and was not clastogenic in mammalian systems in vitro and in vivo .
No data are available on potential for carcinogenicity or impairment of fertility in animals .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of PANHEMATIN for the amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent porphyria was evaluated in five open - label studies , one compassionate - use study , case reports , and an observational study investigating patient reported outcomes in patients with acute porphyrias .
Open - Label Studies In the initial 5 open - label studies , 1 - 5 99 patients with acute porphyrias ( 72 with AIP ) were treated with 3 - 4 mg / kg / day of hemin once or twice daily .
Of the 99 patients in these studies , 30 received prior or concomitant glucose administration .
Patients experienced a clinical response in 85 . 5 % ( 141 / 165 ) of treatment courses ( Figure 1 ) .
Clinical response was defined by improvement of symptoms and reduction in pain .
All patients experienced a chemical response which was defined as normalization of urinary aminolevulinic acid ( ALA ) and porphobilinogen ( PBG ) .
Watson et al . 1 studied the use of hemin treatment in 15 patients with acute porphyrias , of whom 11 were with AIP .
Seven patients were female and four were male with an age range of 19 - 45 years with biochemical evidence of AIP .
Preparations of 4 mg / kg IV of hemin were infused at 12 - or 24 - hour intervals for 1 to 4 days after trials of glucose of various durations and dosages in all patients .
All patients , with exception of one , experienced a clear clinical response most of which was rapid after hemin infusion .
All patients also demonstrated a chemical response based on 58 % - 100 % reduction in urinary ALA and PBG levels .
Pierach et al . 2 examined the use of 2 to 4 mg / kg of hemin IV in 57 patients with acute porphyrias , of whom 43 were with AIP .
Out of 82 individual acute intermittent porphyria attacks with 476 hemin infusions ( 82 treatment courses ) administered , a clinical response was seen in 74 ( 90 % ) acute attacks .
A chemical response was seen for those patients who had elevated urinary ALA and PBG levels prior to hemin treatment .
McColl et al . 3 reported the use of 4 mg / kg of hemin IV given either every 12 or 24 hours for three to five days in the treatment of 13 attacks of acute porphyria in eight patients .
Seven of these 8 patients had AIP .
Five patients with AIP were female and two were male with a mean age of 25 years ( range 19 - 31 years ) .
All patients had biochemical and clinical evidence of an attack of acute porphyria at the time of hemin administration .
All patients had a chemical response of approximately 50 % reduction in urinary ALA and PBG from pre - treatment values .
In addition , clinical response was seen after hemin treatment in a total of 7 attacks in 5 AIP patients .
Lamon et al . 4 reported on 12 patients with acute porphyrias , of whom 11 were with AIP .
These AIP patients received 190 infusions of approximately 2 to 4 mg / kg of hemin IV given every 12 or 24 hours for 3 to 13 days as 20 separate courses of treatment , when high carbohydrate intake ( 300 g for a minimum of 72 hours ) and supportive measures were unsuccessful .
Urinary ALA and PBG levels were collected as well as clinical signs and symptoms of AIP recorded .
Out of 20 treatment courses for acute attacks , there was a clinical response in 14 .
All patients had significant reductions in ALA and / or PBG levels after hemin treatment ( p - value in the range from less than 0 . 001 to 0 . 05 ) .
In another study by Lamon et al . 5 seven patients with acute attacks of porphyria were administered 11 hemin courses ( each course : 1 mg / kg every 24 hours for 3 to 13 days ) .
Before and during hemin administration , patients were maintained on a 250 - 300 g / 24 H carbohydrate diet .
Patients had elevated urinary ALA and PBG treatment and clinical evidence of an acute attack .
Chemical response of a decrease in ALA and PBG occurred in every patient ( except one PBG value in one patient ) when treatment lasted 5 days or longer ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Figure 1 : Efficacy Data on Hemin in Acute Intermittent Porphyria from 5 Open - Label Studies [ MULTIMEDIA ] Compassionate Use Study In the compassionate use , multi - center , open - label , non - comparative study6 , 130 patients were enrolled with a diagnosis of acute porphyria and were treated with hemin .
The patients were administered hemin for acute attacks [ N = 90 ( 69 % ) ] , prophylaxis [ N = 19 ( 15 % ) ] , or both [ N = 21 ( 16 % ) ] .
There was a subset of patients in the " both " group ( acute attacks and prophylaxis ) who were treated for acute attacks prior to receiving prophylactic treatment .
Seventy - two percent of the patients were female and 28 % were male .
Hemin was administered to 111 patients ( enrolled in the " acute attack " and the " both " treatment groups ) for the treatment of 305 acute attacks and to 40 patients ( enrolled in the " prophylaxis " and the " both " treatment groups ) for prophylactic treatment .
Out of the 40 patients who received prophylaxis , 19 received prophylaxis only and 21 patients were treated for up to 3 acute attacks prior to receiving prophylactic treatment .
Prophylaxis treatment varied greatly in frequency with the most common hemin regimen given once a week .
Clinical response was achieved if the physician determined that the admitting symptoms were resolved , there was a clinically acceptable response , or the patient went into remission .
A physician - assessed clinical response was achieved for all acute attacks in 81 ( 73 % ) of 111 patients .
Ninety - four patients ( 85 % ) of 111 had ≥ 1 clinical response and 17 patients ( 15 % ) of 111 had no response .
Among 31 of 40 patients who received hemin prophylaxis for > 1 month , 21 ( 68 % ) did not require subsequent hemin treatment for acute attacks .
Case Reports In 234 courses , patients received hemin therapy as normally prescribed by their physicians with the majority dosed between the recommended range of 3 mg / kg / day to 4 mg / kg / day for at least one course of treatment .
In these patients , hemin treatment was administered immediately in 33 % of recipients , within 1 day of symptom onset in 50 % , and within 3 days in 75 % .
These groups were not mutually exclusive .
Most patients [ 108 / 111 ( 97 . 3 % ) ] received a dose of at least 3 mg / kg / day and only 3 patients ( 2 . 7 % ) received a dose of hemin less than 2 mg / kg / day .
There were 6 patients ( 5 . 4 % ) who were administered doses exceeding 6 mg / kg / day for 1 or more treatment courses .
Observational Patient Reported Outcomes Study An observational study investigated patient reported outcomes in 108 patients with acute porphyrias . 7 Out of 108 patients , 90 patients were with AIP and reported the following : • • 55 % percent reported having received hemin during acute attacks , and 74 % of these patients assessed PANHEMATIN therapy as very successful in the treatment of abdominal pain and other symptoms .
• • 50 % reported having received treatment with opiates during an acute attack , and 44 % of these patients reported that opiates were effective .
Hemin therapy effectiveness was assessed along with glucose infusions , high carbohydrate diets , and pain medications on a scale from zero being least effective to 10 highly effective .
Hemin infusions received a 7 . 9 , glucose infusions a 4 . 4 ( p = 0 . 0781 ) , high carbohydrate diets a 4 . 7 ( p = 0 . 0021 ) , and pain medications a 4 . 2 ( p = 0 . 0049 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • 1 .
Watson , CJ , et al . , Use of Hematin in the Acute Attack of the " Inducible " Hepatic Porphyrias , Adv Intern Med .
1978 ; 23 : 265 - 286 .
• 2 .
Pierach CA , Bossenmaier I , Cardinal R , Weimer M , Watson CJ .
Hematin therapy in porphyric attacks .
Klinische Wochenschrift .
1980 ; 58 ( 16 ) : 829 - 832 .
• 3 .
McColl KE , Moore MR , Thompson GG , Goldberg A . Treatment with haematin in acute hepatic porphyria .
The Quarterly journal of medicine .
1981 ; 50 ( 198 ) : 161 - 174 .
• 4 .
Lamon , JM , Hematin Therapy for Acute Porphyria , Medicine .
1979 ; 58 ( 3 ) : 252 - 269 .
• 5 .
Lamon JM .
Hematin Therapy in Acute Porphyria .
Clin Res .
1977 ; 25 ( 3 ) : 471 A . • 6 .
Anderson , KE and Collins , S , Open - Label Study of Hemin for Acute Porphyria : Clinical Practice Implications .
American Journal of Medicine .
2006 ; 119 ( 9 ) : 801 .
• 7 .
Bonkovsky HL , Maddukuri VC , Yazici C , Anderson KE , Bissell M , et al .
Acute porphyrias in the USA : features of 108 subjects from porphyrias consortium .
Am J Med .
2014 ; 127 ( 12 ) : 1233 - 1241 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PANHEMATIN is supplied as a sterile , lyophilized black powder in single dose dispensing vials ( NDC 55292 - 702 - 54 ) in a carton ( NDC 55292 - 702 - 55 ) .
The vial stopper contains natural rubber latex .
Store lyophilized powder at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise the patient not to take drugs such as estrogens ( e . g . , oral contraceptives ) , barbiturates ( drugs which help them to sleep and drugs sometimes used to treat epilepsy ) or steroids ( body hormone - like drugs ) , because this can trigger an attack or make the attack worse .
• • Advise a female patient to inform the prescriber if she is pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
Manufactured by : Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Raleigh , NC 27616 For : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
Lebanon , NJ 08833 , U . S . A . U . S . Lic .
No . 1899 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Panhematin ® is a registered trademark of Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
750 - 11003 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 55292 - 702 - 54 Single Dose Vial Hemin For Injection Panhematin ® 350 mg Hemin per Vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Sterile Powder for Injection RECORDATI RARE DISEASES GROUP Rx only PCR - 780 - 09239 - 1 Lot : Exp : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 55292 - 702 - 55 Contains One Vial Hemin For Injection Panhematin ® 350 mg Hemin per Vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Sterile Powder for Injection RECORDATI RARE DISEASES GROUP Rx only .
GTIN XXXXXXXXXXXXXX SN XXXXXXXXXXXX LOT XXXXXXX EXP MMM YYYY PCR - 710 - 09242 - 3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
