DESCRIPTION Releevia MC Patch contains capsaicin and menthol in a localized dermal delivery system .
The capsaicin in Releevia MC is a synthetic equivalent of the naturally occurring compound found in chili peppers .
Capsaicin is soluble in alcohol , acetone , and ethyl acetate and very slightly soluble in water .
The menthol is slightly soluble in water .
Releevia MC is a single - use patch stored in a foil pouch .
Each Releevia MC patch is 8 . 3 cm x 12 . 5 cm ( 104 cm 2 ) and consists of a polyester backing film coated with a drug - containing silicone adhesive mixture , and covered with a removable polyester release liner .
The empirical formula for capsaicin is C 18 H 27 NO 3 , with a molecular weight of 305 . 42 .
The chemical compound capsaicin [ ( E ) - 8 - methyl - N - vanillyl - 6 - nonenamide ] is an activating ligand for transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptor ( TRPV1 ) and it has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The empirical formula for menthol is C 10 H 20 O , with a molecular weight of 156 . 27 .
The chemical compound menthol [ ( 1 R , 2 S , 5 R ) - 2 - isopropyl - 5 - methylcyclohexanol ] is an activating ligand for transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8 ( TRPM8 ) .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each Releevia MC Patch contains 0 . 0375 % capsaicin ( 0 . 0375 grams of capsaicin per patch ) and 5 . 00 % menthol ( 5 grams of menthol per patch ) .
The Releevia MC patch contains the following inactive ingredients : Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Diazolidinyl Urea , EDTA Disodiumm Salt , Glycerin , Iodoproynyl Butylcabamate , Methylparaben , Polysorbate 80 , Propylparaben , Sodium Polyacrylate , and Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Releevia MC Patch is indicated for the temporary relief of minor aches and muscle pains associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , muscle soreness and stiffness .
Releevia MC Patch is an external analgesic / counterirritant .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Releevia MC Patch is contraindicated for those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS • For external use only .
• Use only as directed .
• Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
• Do not cover with bandage .
• Do not use on wounds or damaged skin .
• Consult physician for children under 12 .
• Do not use if you are allergic to Menthol .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsen , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days or rash , itching or excessive skin irritation occurs .
• KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Releevia MC patch contains 0 . 0375 % capsaicin and 5 . 00 % menthol .
Instructions for Use • Clean and dry affected area • Cut open pouch and remove patch • Remove protective film and apply directly to area of pain • Apply to affected area not more than 3 times daily • Wash hands with soap after applying patch • Reseal pouch containing unused patches Directions Adults and children 12 years and over • apply to affected area • change patch 1 to 2 times daily Children under 12 years • consult physician before use HOW SUPPLIED Releevia MC Patch is supplied in cartons with either 1 re - sealable pouch containing 5 patches or 3 re - sealable pouches each containing 5 patches each .
NDC 69329 - 030 - 05 5 Patches per carton NDC 69329 - 030 - 15 15 Patches per carton Storage : Store below 25 ° C . Avoid direct sunlight .
Manufactured for Patchwerx Labs , Inc .
Las Vegas , NV 89118 800 - 590 - 8070 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
