DESCRIPTION Human chorionic gonadotropin ( HCG ) , a polypeptide hormone produced by the human placenta , is composed of an alpha and a beta sub - unit .
The alpha sub - unit is essentially identical to the alpha sub - units of the human pituitary gonadotropins , luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle - stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , as well as to the alpha sub - unit of human thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) .
The beta sub - units of these hormones differ in amino acid sequence .
PREGNYL ® ( chorionic gonadotropin for injection , USP ) is a highly purified pyrogen - free preparation obtained from the urine of pregnant females .
It is standardized by a biological assay procedure .
It is available for intramuscular injection in multiple dose vials containing 10 , 000 USP Units of sterile dried powder with 5 mg monobasic sodium phosphate and 4 . 4 mg dibasic sodium phosphate .
If required , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or phosphoric acid .
Each package also contains a 10 mL vial of solvent containing : water for injection with 0 . 56 % sodium chloride and 0 . 9 % BENZYL ALCOHOL , WHICH IS NOT FOR USE IN NEWBORNS .
If required , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The action of HCG is virtually identical to that of pituitary LH , although HCG appears to have a small degree of FSH activity as well .
It stimulates production of gonadal steroid hormones by stimulating the interstitial cells ( Leydig cells ) of the testis to produce androgens and the corpus luteum of the ovary to produce progesterone .
Androgen stimulation in the male leads to the development of secondary sex characteristics and may stimulate testicular descent when no anatomical impediment to descent is present .
This descent is usually reversible when HCG is discontinued .
During the normal menstrual cycle , LH participates with FSH in the development and maturation of the normal ovarian follicle , and the mid - cycle LH surge triggers ovulation .
HCG can substitute for LH in this function .
During a normal pregnancy , HCG secreted by the placenta maintains the corpus luteum after LH secretion decreases , supporting continued secretion of estrogen and progesterone and preventing menstruation .
HCG HAS NO KNOWN EFFECT ON FAT MOBILIZATION , APPETITE OR SENSE OF HUNGER , OR BODY FAT DISTRIBUTION .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HCG HAS NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED TO BE EFFECTIVE ADJUNCTIVE THERAPY IN THE TREATMENT OF OBESITY .
THERE IS NO SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT IT INCREASES WEIGHT LOSS BEYOND THAT RESULTING FROM CALORIC RESTRICTION , THAT IT CAUSES A MORE ATTRACTIVE OR “ NORMAL ” DISTRIBUTION OF FAT , OR THAT IT DECREASES THE HUNGER AND DISCOMFORT ASSOCIATED WITH CALORIE - RESTRICTED DIETS .
• Prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomical obstruction .
In general , HCG is thought to induce testicular descent in situations when descent would have occurred at puberty .
HCG thus may help predict whether or not orchiopexy will be needed in the future .
Although , in some cases , descent following HCG administration is permanent , in most cases , the response is temporary .
Therapy is usually instituted in children between the ages of 4 and 9 .
• Selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ( hypogonadism secondary to a pituitary deficiency ) in males .
• Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure , and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Precocious puberty , prostatic carcinoma or other androgen - dependent neoplasm , prior allergic reaction to HCG .
WARNINGS HCG should be used in conjunction with human menopausal gonadotropins only by physicians experienced with infertility problems who are familiar with the criteria for patient selection , contraindications , warnings , precautions , and adverse reactions described in the package insert for menotropins .
Anaphylaxis has been reported with urinary - derived HCG products .
The principal serious adverse reactions during this use are : ( 1 ) Ovarian hyperstimulation , a syndrome of sudden ovarian enlargement , ascites with or without pain , and / or pleural effusion , ( 2 ) Rupture of ovarian cysts with resultant hemoperitoneum , ( 3 ) Multiple births , and ( 4 ) Arterial thromboembolism .
PRECAUTIONS General Since androgens may cause fluid retention , HCG should be used with caution in patients with cardiac or renal disease , epilepsy , migraine , or asthma .
Pediatric Use Induction of androgen secretion by HCG may induce precocious puberty in pediatric patients treated for cryptorchidism .
Therapy should be discontinued if signs of precocious puberty occur .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of PREGNYL ® ( chorionic gonadotropin for injection , USP ) did not include subjects aged 65 and over .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headache , irritability , restlessness , depression , fatigue , edema , precocious puberty , gynecomastia , pain at the site of injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions , both localized and systemic in nature , have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intramuscular use only .
The dosage regimen employed in any particular case will depend upon the indication for the use , the age and weight of the patient , and the physician ’ s preference .
The following regimens have been advocated by various authorities : Prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomical obstruction .
Therapy is usually instituted in children between the ages of 4 and 9 .
• 4 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for three weeks .
• 5 , 000 USP Units every second day for four injections .
• 15 injections for 500 to 1 , 000 USP Units over a period of six weeks .
• 500 USP Units three times weekly for four to six weeks .
If this course of treatment is not successful , another series is begun one month later , giving 1 , 000 USP Units per injection .
Selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in males .
• 500 to 1 , 000 USP Units three times a week for three weeks , followed by the same dose twice a week for three weeks .
• 4 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for six to nine months , following which the dosage may be reduced to 2 , 000 USP Units three times weekly for an additional three months .
Induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory , infertile woman in whom the cause of anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure and who has been appropriately pretreated with human menotropins .
( See prescribing information for menotropins for dosage and administration for that drug product . )
5 , 000 to 10 , 000 USP Units one day following the last dose of menotropins .
( A dosage of 10 , 000 USP Units is recommended in the labeling for menotropins . )
Directions for Reconstitution Two - vial package : Withdraw sterile air from lyophilized vial and inject into diluent vial .
Remove 1 – 10 mL from diluent and add to lyophilized vial ; agitate gently until powder is completely dissolved in solution .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
IMPORTANT : USE COMPLETELY AFTER RECONSTITUTION .
RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION IS STABLE FOR 60 DAYS WHEN REFRIGERATED .
HOW SUPPLIED Two - vial package containing : 1 - 10 mL lyophilized multiple dose vial containing : 10 , 000 USP Units chorionic gonadotropin per vial , NDC 54868 - 4997 - 0 .
1 - 10 mL vial of solvent containing : water for injection with sodium chloride 0 . 56 % and benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % , When reconstituted , each 10 mL vial contains : Chorionic gonadotropin 10 , 000 USP Units Monobasic sodium phosphate 5 mg Dibasic sodium phosphate 4 . 4 mg Sodium chloride 0 . 56 % Benzyl alcohol 0 . 9 % If required pH adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or phosphoric acid .
Storage Store at controlled room temperature 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) .
Reconstituted solution is stable for 60 days when refrigerated .
Rx Only Manufactured for Organon USA Inc .
Roseland , NJ 07068 by Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC Bloomington , IN 47403 © 2006 Organon USA Inc .
Rev . 4 / 11 35039007 T Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 , 000 USP Units / Vial Carton NDC 54868 - 4997 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL multidose vial with 10 mL vial of solvent Pregnyl ® ( chorionic gonadotropin for injection , USP ) 10 , 000 USP Units / vial For Intramuscular Injection Only Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
