1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may be used with beta - blockers , nitrates , calcium channel blockers , anti ‑ platelet therapy , lipid - lowering therapy , ACE inhibitors , and angiotensin receptor blockers .
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is an antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg orally twice daily and increase to 1000 mg orally twice daily , based on clinical symptoms ( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Initiate ASPRUZYO Sprinkle dosing at 500 mg orally twice daily and increase to 1000 mg orally twice daily , as needed , based on clinical symptoms .
The maximum recommended daily dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is 1000 mg twice daily .
If a dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is missed , take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time ; do not double the next dose .
Directions for use with soft food ( e . g . , applesauce and yogurt ) • • Sprinkle granules on one tablespoonful of soft food and consume immediately .
• • Do not crush or chew the granules .
Direction for nasogastric and gastric tube administration Nasogastric ( NG ) tube : Add the content of a sachet to a plastic catheter tip syringe and add 50 mL of water .
Gently shake the syringe for approximately 15 seconds .
Promptly deliver through a 12 French or larger NG tube .
Ensure no granules are left in the syringe .
Rinse with additional water ( about 15 mL ) if needed .
Gastrostomy / Gastric ( G ) tube : Add the content of a sachet to a plastic catheter tip syringe and add 30 mL of water .
Gently shake the syringe for approximately 15 seconds .
Promptly deliver through a 12 French or larger G - tube .
Rinse with 20 mL of water in the syringe .
Ensure no granules are left in the syringe .
Rinse with additional water ( about 15 mL ) if needed .
2 . 2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is taken in combination with other drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Limit the maximum dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as diltiazem , verapamil , and erythromycin .
Use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle with strong CYP3A inhibitors and CYP3A inducers is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ( ranolazine ) is supplied as unit - dose sachets containing 500 or 1000 mg of white to off - white , coated , extended - release granules .
Extended - release granules : 500 and 1000 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is contraindicated in patients : • • Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • • Taking inducers of CYP3A [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • • With liver cirrhosis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] • • Strong CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , clarithromycin , nelfinavir ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • CYP3A inducers ( e . g . , rifampin , phenobarbital , St . John ' s wort ) ( 4 , 7 . 1 ) • • Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8 . 6 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • QT interval prolongation : Can occur with ranolazine .
Little information available on high doses , long exposure , use with QT interval ‑ prolonging drugs , potassium channel variants causing prolonged QT interval , in patients with a family history of ( or congenital ) long QT syndrome , or in patients with known acquired QT interval prolongation .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Renal failure : Monitor renal function after initiation and periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 60 mL / min ) .
If acute renal failure develops , discontinue ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 QT Interval Prolongation Ranolazine blocks IKr and prolongs the QTc interval in a dose - related manner .
Clinical experience in an acute coronary syndrome population did not show an increased risk of proarrhythmia or sudden death [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
However , there is little experience with high doses ( > 1000 mg twice daily ) or exposure , other QT ‑ prolonging drugs , potassium channel variants resulting in a long QT interval , in patients with a family history of ( or congenital ) long QT syndrome , or in patients with known acquired QT interval prolongation .
5 . 2 Renal Failure Acute renal failure has been observed in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CrCL ] < 30 mL / min ) while taking ranolazine .
If acute renal failure develops ( e . g . , marked increase in serum creatinine associated with an increase in blood urea nitrogen [ BUN ] ) , discontinue ASPRUZYO Sprinkle and treat appropriately [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Monitor renal function after initiation and periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 60 mL / min ) for increases in serum creatinine accompanied by an increase in BUN .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( > 4 % and more common than with placebo ) are dizziness , headache , constipation , nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 2018 patients with chronic angina were treated with ranolazine in controlled clinical trials .
Of the patients treated with ranolazine , 1026 were enrolled in three double ‑ blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies ( CARISA , ERICA , MARISA ) of up to 12 weeks ' duration .
In addition , upon study completion , 1251 patients received treatment with ranolazine in open - label , long - term studies ; 1227 patients were exposed to ranolazine for more than 1 year , 613 patients for more than 2 years , 531 patients for more than 3 years , and 326 patients for more than 4 years .
At recommended doses , about 6 % of patients discontinued treatment with ranolazine because of an adverse event in controlled studies in angina patients compared to about 3 % on placebo .
The most common adverse events that led to discontinuation more frequently on ranolazine than placebo were dizziness ( 1 . 3 % versus 0 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 1 % versus 0 % ) , asthenia , constipation , and headache ( each about 0 . 5 % versus 0 % ) .
Doses above 1000 mg twice daily are poorly tolerated .
In controlled clinical trials of angina patients , the most frequently reported treatment ‑ emergent adverse reactions ( > 4 % and more common on ranolazine than on placebo ) were dizziness ( 6 . 2 % ) , headache ( 5 . 5 % ) , constipation ( 4 . 5 % ) , and nausea ( 4 . 4 % ) .
Dizziness may be dose - related .
In open - label , long - term treatment studies , a similar adverse reaction profile was observed .
The following additional adverse reactions occurred at an incidence of 0 . 5 to 4 . 0 % in patients treated with ranolazine and were more frequent than the incidence observed in placebo - treated patients : Cardiac Disorders - bradycardia , palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders - tinnitus , vertigo Eye Disorders - blurred vision Gastrointestinal Disorders - abdominal pain , dry mouth , vomiting , dyspepsia General Disorders and Administrative Site Adverse Events - asthenia , peripheral edema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders - anorexia Nervous System Disorders - syncope ( vasovagal ) Psychiatric Disorders - confusional state Renal and Urinary Disorders - hematuria Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders - dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders - hyperhidrosis Vascular Disorders - hypotension , orthostatic hypotension Other ( < 0 . 5 % ) but potentially medically important adverse reactions observed more frequently with ranolazine than placebo treatment in all controlled studies included : angioedema , renal failure , eosinophilia , chromaturia , blood urea increased , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , tremor , pulmonary fibrosis , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and pancytopenia .
A large clinical trial in acute coronary syndrome patients was unsuccessful in demonstrating a benefit for ranolazine , but there was no apparent proarrhythmic effect in these high - risk patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Ranolazine produces elevations of serum creatinine by 0 . 1 mg / dL , regardless of previous renal function , likely because of inhibition of creatinine ' s tubular secretion .
In general , the elevation has a rapid onset , shows no signs of progression during long - term therapy , is reversible after discontinuation of ranolazine , and is not accompanied by changes in BUN .
In healthy volunteers , ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily had no effect upon the glomerular filtration rate .
More marked and progressive increases in serum creatinine , associated with increases in BUN or potassium , indicating acute renal failure , have been reported after initiation of ranolazine in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ranolazine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Nervous System Disorders - Abnormal coordination , myoclonus , paresthesia , tremor , and other serious neurologic adverse events have been reported to occur , sometimes concurrently , in patients taking ranolazine .
The onset of events was often associated with an increase in ranolazine dose or exposure .
Many patients reported symptom resolution following drug discontinuation or dose decrease .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders - Cases of hypoglycemia have been reported in diabetic patients on antidiabetic medication .
Psychiatric Disorders - hallucination Renal and Urinary Disorders - dysuria , urinary retention Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders - angioedema , pruritus , rash 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Moderate CYP3A inhibitors ( e . g . , diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin ) : Limit ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to 500 mg twice daily .
( 7 . 1 ) • • P - gp inhibitors ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) : Ranolazine exposure increased .
Titrate ASPRUZYO Sprinkle based on clinical response .
( 7 . 1 ) • • CYP3A substrates : Limit simvastatin to 20 mg when used with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Doses of other sensitive CYP3A substrates ( e . g . , lovastatin ) and CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range ( e . g . , cyclosporine , tacrolimus , sirolimus ) may need to be reduced with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
( 7 . 2 ) • • OCT2 substrates : Limit the dose of metformin to 1700 mg daily when used with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle 1000 mg twice daily .
Doses of other OCT2 substrates may require adjusted doses .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Drugs transported by P - gp ( e . g . , digoxin ) , or drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) may need reduced doses when used with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle with strong CYP3A inhibitors , including ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , nefazodone , nelfinavir , ritonavir , indinavir , and saquinavir is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors , including diltiazem , verapamil , erythromycin , fluconazole , and grapefruit juice or grapefruit - containing products [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
P - gp Inhibitors Concomitant use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle and P - gp inhibitors , such as cyclosporine , may result in increases in ranolazine concentrations .
Titrate ASPRUZYO Sprinkle based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P - gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle with CYP3A inducers such as rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentine , phenobarbital , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and St . John ' s wort is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Alcohol An in - vitro dissolution study was conducted to evaluate the impact of alcohol on extended - release characteristics of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
The in - vitro study showed that alcohol causes a rapid release of ranolazine from ASPRUZYO Sprinkle that may increase the risk of adverse events associated with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Patients should not consume alcohol when taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Effects of Ranolazine on Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on any dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to 20 mg once daily , when ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is co - administered .
Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates ( e . g . , lovastatin ) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range ( e . g . , cyclosporine , tacrolimus , sirolimus ) may be required as ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs Transported by P - gp Concomitant use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle and digoxin results in increased exposure to digoxin .
The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 The exposure to CYP2D6 substrates , such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics , may be increased during co - administration with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle , and lower doses of these drugs may be required .
Drugs Transported by OCT2 In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus , concomitant use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle 1000 mg twice daily and metformin results in increased plasma levels of metformin .
When ASPRUZYO Sprinkle 1000 mg twice daily is co - administered with metformin , metformin dose should not exceed 1700 mg / day .
Monitor blood glucose levels and risks associated with high exposures of metformin .
Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine 500 mg twice daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on ranolazine use in pregnant women to inform any drug ‑ associated risks .
Studies in rats and rabbits showed no evidence of fetal harm at exposures 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage of clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal toxicity studies were conducted in rats and rabbits orally administered ranolazine during organogenesis .
In rats , decreased fetal weight and reduced ossification were observed at doses ( corresponding to 4 - fold the AUC for the MRHD ) that caused maternal weight loss .
No adverse fetal effects were observed in either species exposed ( AUC ) to ranolazine at exposures ( AUC ) equal to the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ranolazine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , ranolazine is present in rat milk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ranolazine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ranolazine or from the underlying maternal condition .
Adult female rats were administered ranolazine orally from gestation day 6 through postnatal day 20 .
No adverse effects on pup development , behavior , or reproduction parameters were observed at a maternal dosage level of 60 mg / kg / day ( equal to the MHRD based on AUC ) .
At maternally toxic doses , male and female pups exhibited increased mortality and decreased body weight , and female pups showed increased motor activity .
The pups were potentially exposed to low amounts of ranolazine via the maternal milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the chronic angina patients treated with ranolazine in controlled studies , 496 ( 48 % ) were ≥ 65 years of age , and 114 ( 11 % ) were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in efficacy were observed between older and younger patients .
There were no differences in safety for patients ≥ 65 years compared to younger patients , but patients ≥ 75 years of age on ranolazine , compared to placebo , had a higher incidence of adverse events , serious adverse events , and drug discontinuations due to adverse events .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should usually start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease , or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is contraindicated in patients with liver cirrhosis .
In a study of cirrhotic patients , the Cmax of ranolazine was increased 30 % in cirrhotic patients with mild ( Child ‑ Pugh Class A ) hepatic impairment but increased 80 % in cirrhotic patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment compared to patients without hepatic impairment .
This increase was not enough to account for the 200 % increase in QT prolongation seen in cirrhotic patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment A pharmacokinetic study of ranolazine in subjects with severe renal impairment ( CrCL < 30 mL / min ) was stopped when 2 of 4 subjects developed acute renal failure after receiving ranolazine 500 mg twice daily for 5 days ( lead - in phase ) followed by 1000 mg twice a day ( 1 dose in one subject and 11 doses in the other ) .
Increases in creatinine , BUN , and potassium were observed in 3 subjects during the 500 mg lead - in phase .
One subject required hemodialysis , while the other 2 subjects improved upon drug discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment .
Discontinue ASPRUZYO Sprinkle if acute renal failure develops .
In a separate study , Cmax was increased between 40 % and 50 % in patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment compared to patients with no renal impairment , suggesting a similar increase in exposure in patients with renal failure independent of the degree of impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine has not been assessed in patients on dialysis .
10 OVERDOSAGE Hypotension , QT prolongation , bradycardia , myoclonic activity , severe tremor , unsteady gait / incoordination , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , dysphasia , and hallucinations have been seen in cases of oral overdose of ranolazine .
In cases of extreme overdose of ranolazine fatal outcomes have been reported .
In clinical studies , high intravenous exposure resulted in diplopia , paresthesia , confusion , and syncope .
In addition to general supportive measures , continuous ECG monitoring may be warranted in the event of overdose .
Since ranolazine is about 62 % bound to plasma proteins , hemodialysis is unlikely to be effective in clearing ranolazine .
11 DESCRIPTION ASPRUZYO Sprinkle contains ranolazine , an antianginal available as white to off - white coated extended - release granules filled in a sachet for oral administration .
Ranolazine is a racemic mixture , chemically described as 1 - piperazineacetamide , N ‑ ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - 4 - [ 2 - hydroxy - 3 - ( 2 - methoxyphenoxy ) propyl ] - ( ± ) - .
It has a molecular formula of C24H33N3O4 , a molecular weight of 427 . 54 g / mole , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ranolazine is off - white to white powder .
Ranolazine is soluble in dichloromethane and methanol .
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle contains 500 mg or 1000 mg of ranolazine and the following inactive ingredients : amino methacrylate copolymer , dibutyl sebacate , ethyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid and ethyl acrylate copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of ranolazine ' s antianginal effects has not been determined .
Ranolazine has anti - ischemic and antianginal effects that do not depend upon reductions in heart rate or blood pressure .
It does not affect the rate - pressure product , a measure of myocardial work , at maximal exercise .
Ranolazine at therapeutic levels can inhibit the cardiac late sodium current ( INa ) .
However , the relationship of this inhibition to angina symptoms is uncertain .
The QT prolongation effect of ranolazine on the surface electrocardiogram is the result of inhibition of IKr which prolongs the ventricular action potential .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamic Effects Patients with chronic angina treated with ranolazine in controlled clinical studies had minimal changes in mean heart rate ( < 2 bpm ) and systolic blood pressure ( < 3 mm Hg ) .
Similar results were observed in subgroups of patients with CHF NYHA Class I or II , diabetes , or reactive airway disease , and in elderly patients .
Electrocardiographic Effects Dose and plasma concentration - related increases in the QTc interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , reductions in T wave amplitude , and , in some cases , notched T waves , have been observed in patients treated with ranolazine .
These effects are believed to be caused by ranolazine and not by its metabolites .
The relationship between the change in QTc and ranolazine plasma concentrations is linear , with a slope of about 2 . 6 msec / 1000 ng / mL , through exposures corresponding to doses several - fold higher than the maximum recommended dose of 1000 mg twice daily .
The variable blood levels attained after a given dose of ranolazine give a wide range of effects on QTc .
At Tmax following repeat dosing at 1000 mg twice daily , the mean change in QTc is about 6 msec , but in the 5 % of the population with the highest plasma concentrations , the prolongation of QTc is at least 15 msec .
In cirrhotic subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , the relationship between plasma level of ranolazine and QTc is much steeper [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Age , weight , gender , race , heart rate , congestive heart failure , diabetes , and renal impairment did not alter the slope of the QTc - concentration relationship of ranolazine .
No proarrhythmic effects were observed on 7 - day Holter recordings in 3 , 162 acute coronary syndrome patients treated with ranolazine .
There was a significantly lower incidence of arrhythmias ( ventricular tachycardia , bradycardia , supraventricular tachycardia , and new atrial fibrillation ) in patients treated with ranolazine ( 80 % ) versus placebo ( 87 % ) , including ventricular tachycardia ≥ 3 beats ( 52 % versus 61 % ) .
However , this difference in arrhythmias did not lead to a reduction in mortality , a reduction in arrhythmia hospitalization , or a reduction in arrhythmia symptoms .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic parameter of ranolazine after single dose administration of 1000 mg ASPRUZYO Sprinkle under fasting conditions are summarized in table 1 .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic parameters of ranolazine after single dose administration of 1000 mg ASPRUZYO Sprinkle under fasting conditions .
Parameter ASPRUZYO Sprinkle Mean CV ( % ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 1 . 95 30 Tmax ( hr ) * 10 ( 2 to 16 ) AUC0 - t ( mcg . hr / mL ) 31 . 4 36 AUC0 - ∞ ( mcg . hr / mL ) 31 . 7 36 T1 / 2 ( hr ) 5 . 3 27 Kel ( hr - 1 ) 0 . 15 29 * Median range ( min - max ) is provided Ranolazine is extensively metabolized in the gut and liver and its absorption is highly variable .
The pharmacokinetics of the ( + ) R - and ( - ) S - enantiomers of ranolazine are similar in healthy volunteers .
Steady state is generally achieved within 3 days of twice - daily dosing with ranolazine .
At steady state over the dose range of 500 to 1000 mg twice daily , Cmax and AUC0 - T increase slightly more than proportionally to dose , 120 % and 140 % , respectively .
With twice - daily dosing , the trough : peak ratio of the ranolazine plasma concentration is 0 . 3 to 0 . 6 .
The pharmacokinetics of ranolazine is unaffected by age and sex .
Absorption and Distribution After oral administration of ranolazine 1000 mg , median Tmax was 10 hours under fasting conditions and 4 . 5 to 6 hours under fed .
After oral administration of 14 C - ranolazine as a solution , 73 % of the dose is systemically available as ranolazine or metabolites .
The bioavailability of ranolazine from ranolazine granules relative to that from a solution of ranolazine is 76 % .
Because ranolazine is a substrate of P - gp , inhibitors of P - gp may increase the absorption of ranolazine .
Over the concentration range of 0 . 25 to 10 mcg / mL , ranolazine is approximately 62 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Food Effect Compared to the fasted state , the systemic exposure ( AUC ) increased by 10 % and peak drug concentration ( Cmax ) increased by 27 % when the dose was given 30 minutes after a high fat meal .
After administration with a low fat low calorie meal AUC increased by 6 % and Cmax increased by 48 % .
Metabolism and Excretion Ranolazine is metabolized mainly by CYP3A and , to a lesser extent , by CYP2D6 .
Following a single oral dose of ranolazine solution , approximately 75 % of the dose is excreted in urine and 25 % in feces .
Ranolazine is metabolized rapidly and extensively in the liver and intestine ; less than 5 % is excreted unchanged in urine and feces .
The pharmacologic activity of the metabolites has not been well characterized .
The mean elimination half - lives of ranolazine is approximately 5 hours post single dose ranging from 2 to 11 hours .
After dosing to steady state with 500 mg to 1500 mg twice daily , the four most abundant metabolites in plasma have AUC values ranging from about 5 to 33 % that of ranolazine and display apparent half - lives ranging from 6 to 22 hours .
Drug Interactions Effect of Other Drugs on Ranolazine In vitro data indicate that ranolazine is a substrate of CYP3A and , to a lesser degree , of CYP2D6 .
Ranolazine is also a substrate of P - glycoprotein .
Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily are increased by 220 % when co - administered with ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily are increased by 50 to 130 % by diltiazem 180 to 360 mg , respectively .
Plasma levels of ranolazine with ranolazine 750 mg twice daily are increased by 100 % by verapamil 120 mg three times daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Weak CYP3A Inhibitors The weak CYP3A inhibitors simvastatin ( 20 mg once daily ) and cimetidine ( 400 mg three times daily ) do not increase the exposure to ranolazine in healthy volunteers .
CYP3A Inducers Rifampin 600 mg once daily decreases the plasma concentrations of ranolazine ( 1000 mg twice daily ) by approximately 95 % [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors Paroxetine 20 mg once daily increased ranolazine concentrations by 20 % in healthy volunteers receiving ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily .
No dose adjustment of ranolazine is required in patients treated with CYP2D6 inhibitors .
Digoxin Plasma concentrations of ranolazine are not significantly altered by concomitant digoxin at 0 . 125 mg once daily .
Effect of Ranolazine on Other Drugs In vitro ranolazine and its O - demethylated metabolite are weak inhibitors of CYP3A and moderate inhibitors of CYP2D6 and P - gp .
In vitro ranolazine is an inhibitor of OCT2 .
CYP3A Substrates The plasma levels of simvastatin , a CYP3A substrate , and its active metabolite are increased by 100 % in healthy volunteers receiving 80 mg once daily and ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Mean exposure to atorvastatin ( 80 mg daily ) is increased by 40 % following co - administration with ranolazine ( 1000 mg twice daily ) in healthy volunteers .
However , in one subject the exposure to atorvastatin and metabolites was increased by ~ 400 % in the presence of ranolazine .
Diltiazem The pharmacokinetics of diltiazem is not affected by ranolazine in healthy volunteers receiving diltiazem 60 mg three times daily and ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily .
P - gp Substrates Ranolazine increases digoxin concentrations by 50 % in healthy volunteers receiving ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily and digoxin 0 . 125 mg once daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
CYP2D6 Substrates Ranolazine 750 mg twice daily increases the plasma concentrations of a single dose of immediate release metoprolol ( 100 mg ) , a CYP2D6 substrate , by 80 % in extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers with no need for dose adjustment of metoprolol .
In extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan , a substrate of CYP2D6 , ranolazine inhibits partially the formation of the main metabolite dextrorphan .
OCT2 Substrates In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the exposure to metformin is increased by 40 % and 80 % following administration of ranolazine 500 and 1000 mg twice daily , respectively .
If co - administered with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily , do not exceed metformin doses of 1700 mg / day [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Alcohol An in - vitro dissolution study was conducted to evaluate the impact of alcohol on extended - release characteristics of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
The in - vitro study showed that alcohol causes a rapid release of ranolazine from ASPRUZYO Sprinkle that may increase the risk of adverse events associated with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Patients should not consume alcohol when taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ranolazine tested negative for genotoxic potential in the following assays : Ames bacterial mutation assay , Saccharomyces assay for mitotic gene conversion , chromosomal aberrations assay in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , mammalian CHO / HGPRT gene mutation assay , and mouse and rat bone marrow micronucleus assays .
There was no evidence of carcinogenic potential in mice or rats .
The highest oral doses used in the carcinogenicity studies were 150 mg / kg / day for 21 months in rats ( 900 mg / m2 / day ) and 50 mg / kg / day for 24 months in mice ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) .
These maximally tolerated doses are 0 . 8 and 0 . 1 times , respectively , the daily maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 , 000 mg on a surface area basis .
A published study reported that ranolazine promoted tumor formation and progression to malignancy when given to transgenic APC ( min / + ) mice at a dose of 30 mg / kg twice daily .
The clinical significance of this finding is unclear .
In male and female rats , oral administration of ranolazine that produced exposures ( AUC ) approximately 3 - fold or 5 - fold higher , respectively , than the MRHD had no effect on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Chronic Stable Angina CARISA ( Combination Assessment of Ranolazine In Stable Angina ) was a study in 823 chronic angina patients randomized to receive 12 weeks of treatment with twice - daily ranolazine 750 mg , 1000 mg , or placebo , who also continued on daily doses of atenolol 50 mg , amlodipine 5 mg , or diltiazem CD 180 mg .
Sublingual nitrates were used in this study as needed .
In this trial , statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 ) increases in modified Bruce treadmill exercise duration and time to angina were observed for each ranolazine dose versus placebo , at both trough ( 12 hours after dosing ) and peak ( 4 hours after dosing ) plasma levels , with minimal effects on blood pressure and heart rate .
The changes versus placebo in exercise parameters are presented in Table 2 .
Exercise treadmill results showed no increase in effect on exercise at the 1000 mg dose compared to the 750 - mg dose .
Table 2 Exercise Treadmill Results ( CARISA ) Mean Difference from Placebo ( sec ) • Study CARISA ( N = 791 ) • Ranolazine Twice - daily Dose 750 mg 1000 mg • Exercise Duration • Trough • Peak 24 a 34 b 24 a 26 a • Time to Angina • Trough • Peak 30 a 38 b 26 a 38 b • Time to 1 mm ST - Segment • Depression • Trough • Peak 20 41 b 21 35 b • a p - value ≤ 0 . 05 b p - value ≤ 0 . 005 The effects of ranolazine on angina frequency and nitroglycerin use are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( CARISA ) Placebo Ranolazine 750 mga Ranolazine 1000 mga • Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) • N 258 272 261 • Mean 3 . 3 2 . 5 2 . 1 • P - value vs placebo - 0 . 006 < 0 . 001 • Nitroglycerin Use • ( doses / week ) • N 252 262 244 • Mean 3 . 1 2 . 1 1 . 8 • P - value vs placebo - 0 . 016 < 0 . 001 • a Twice daily Tolerance to ranolazine did not develop after 12 weeks of therapy .
Rebound increases in angina , as measured by exercise duration , have not been observed following abrupt discontinuation of ranolazine .
Ranolazine has been evaluated in patients with chronic angina who remained symptomatic despite treatment with the maximum dose of an antianginal agent .
In the ERICA ( Efficacy of Ranolazine In Chronic Angina ) trial , 565 patients were randomized to receive an initial dose of ranolazine 500 mg twice daily or placebo for 1 week , followed by 6 weeks of treatment with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily or placebo , in addition to concomitant treatment with amlodipine 10 mg once daily .
In addition , 45 % of the study population also received long - acting nitrates .
Sublingual nitrates were used as needed to treat angina episodes .
Results are shown in Table 4 .
Statistically significant decreases in angina attack frequency ( p = 0 . 028 ) and nitroglycerin use ( p = 0 . 014 ) were observed with ranolazine compared to placebo .
These treatment effects appeared consistent across age and use of long - acting nitrates .
Table 4 Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use ( ERICA ) Placebo Ranolazinea Angina Frequency ( attacks / week ) • N 281 277 • Mean 4 . 3 3 . 3 • Median 2 . 4 2 . 2 Nitroglycerin Use ( doses / week ) • N 281 277 • Mean 3 . 6 2 . 7 • Median 1 . 7 1 . 3 • a 1000 mg twice daily Gender Effects on angina frequency and exercise tolerance were considerably smaller in women than in men .
In CARISA , the improvement in Exercise Tolerance Test ( ETT ) in females was about 33 % of that in males at the 1000 mg twice - daily dose level .
In ERICA , where the primary endpoint was angina attack frequency , the mean reduction in weekly angina attacks was 0 . 3 for females and 1 . 3 for males .
Race There were insufficient numbers of non - Caucasian patients to allow for analyses of efficacy or safety by racial subgroup .
14 . 2 Lack of Benefit in Acute Coronary Syndrome In a large ( n = 6560 ) placebo - controlled trial ( MERLIN - TIMI 36 ) in patients with acute coronary syndrome , there was no benefit shown on outcome measures .
However , the study is somewhat reassuring regarding proarrhythmic risks , as ventricular arrhythmias were less common on ranolazine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] , and there was no difference between ranolazine and placebo in the risk of all - cause mortality ( relative risk ranolazine : placebo 0 . 99 with an upper 95 % confidence limit of 1 . 22 ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is supplied as white to off - white coated , extended - release granules in sachets of 500 or 1000 mg .
Packages are Strength NDC Unit - dose Sachet ( Child - resistant ) 500 mg NDC 47335 - 624 - 11 Unit - dose Sachet ( Child - resistant ) 1000 mg NDC 47335 - 625 - 11 30 Unit - dose Sachets ( Child - resistant ) 500 mg NDC 47335 - 624 - 30 30 Unit - dose Sachets ( Child - resistant ) 1000 mg NDC 47335 - 625 - 30 60 Unit - dose Sachets ( Child - resistant ) 500 mg NDC 47335 - 624 - 60 60 Unit - dose Sachets ( Child - resistant ) 1000 mg NDC 47335 - 625 - 60 Store ASPRUZYO Sprinkle at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Inform patients that ASPRUZYO Sprinkle will not abate an acute angina episode .
Drug Interactions • • • • Advise patients to discuss with their healthcare provider any prescription or over - the - counter medications and supplements prior to concomitant use [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to limit grapefruit juice or grapefruit products when taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
QT Interval Prolongation • • • • Advise patients to inform their physician of any personal or family history of QTc prolongation , congenital long QT syndrome , or if they are receiving drugs that prolong the QTc interval such as [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Dizziness , Fainting • • • • Inform patients that ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may cause dizziness and lightheadedness .
Patients should know how they react to ASPRUZYO Sprinkle before they operate an automobile or machinery , or engage in activities requiring mental alertness or coordination [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to contact their physician if they experience fainting spells while taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Administration • • • • Instruct patients to take ASPRUZYO Sprinkle as directed .
• • Advise patients not to crush or chew the granules .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
Mohali , INDIA Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 FDA - 04 Patient Medication Information Patient Information ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ( as - PROO - zee - oh spring - KUHL ) ( ranolazine ) extended - release granules What is ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is a prescription medicine used to treat angina that keeps coming back ( chronic angina ) .
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may be used with other medicines that are used for heart problems and blood pressure control .
It is not known if ASPRUZYO Sprinkle is safe and effective in children .
Do not take ASPRUZYO Sprinkle if : • • you take any of the following medicines : • • for fungus infection : ketoconazole , itraconazole • • for infection : clarithromycin • • for depression : nefazodone • • for HIV : nelfinavir , ritonavir , indinavir saquinavir • • for tuberculosis ( TB ) : rifampin , rifabutin , rifapentine • • for seizures : phenobarbital , phenytoin , and carbamazepine • • St . John ' s wort • • you have scarring of your liver ( liver cirrhosis ) Before taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have or have a family history of a heart problem , called ' QT prolongation ' or ' long QT syndrome ' • • have liver problems • • have kidney problems • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ASPRUZYO Sprinkle will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if ranolazine passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how ASPRUZYO Sprinkle works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
• • Take ASPRUZYO Sprinkle exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• • Your healthcare provider will tell you how much ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to take and when to take it .
Do not change your dose unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Tell your healthcare provider if you still have symptoms of angina after starting ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
• • Take ASPRUZYO Sprinkle 2 times a day .
• • ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may be taken or given as follows : To open the sachet fold back on dotted line and tear at notch or use scissors .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Directions for use with soft food ( e . g . , applesauce and yogurt ) : • • Sprinkle granules on one tablespoonful of soft food and consume immediately .
• • Do not crush or chew the granules .
Giving ASPRUZYO Sprinkle with water through a 12 French or larger nasogastric ( NG ) tube : • • Add the granules from the sachet to a plastic catheter tip syringe and add 50 mL of water .
• • Gently shake the syringe for about 15 seconds .
• • Connect the catheter tip syringe to the NG tube and give the mixture right away .
• • Make sure that no granules are left in the syringe .
Rinse the syringe with about 15 mL of additional water if needed and give through NG tube .
Giving ASPRUZYO Sprinkle with water through a 12 French or larger gastric ( G ) tube : • • Add the granules from the sachet to a plastic catheter tip syringe and add 30 mL of water .
• • Gently shake the syringe for about 15 seconds .
• • Connect the catheter tip syringe to the G - tube and give the mixture right away .
• • Rinse the syringe with 20 mL of additional water and give through G - tube .
• • Make sure that no granules are left in the syringe .
Rinse the syringe with about 15 mL of additional water if needed and give through G - tube .
• • If you miss a dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle , take the next dose of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle at your regular time .
Do not make up for the missed dose .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
• • If you take too much ASPRUZYO Sprinkle , call your healthcare provider , or go to the nearest emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
• • You should limit grapefruit , grapefruit juice , and products that contain grapefruit during treatment with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Grapefruit products can increase the amount of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle in your body .
• • ASPRUZYO Sprinkle can cause dizziness , lightheadedness , and fainting .
If you have these symptoms , do not drive a car , use machinery , or do anything that needs you to be alert .
• • You should not drink alcohol during treatment with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
What are the possible side effects of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
ASPRUZYO Sprinkle may cause serious side effects , including : • • Changes in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation .
Your healthcare provider may check the electrical activity of your heart with an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you feel faint , lightheaded , or feel your heart beating irregularly or fast during treatment with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
These may be symptoms related to QT prolongation .
• • Kidney failure in people who already have severe kidney problems .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check your kidneys during treatment with ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
The most common side effects of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle include : • • dizziness • • headache • • constipation • • nausea These are not all of the possible side effects of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
• • Store ASPRUZYO Sprinkle at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep ASPRUZYO Sprinkle and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ASPRUZYO Sprinkle .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ASPRUZYO Sprinkle for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ASPRUZYO Sprinkle to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ASPRUZYO Sprinkle that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ?
Active ingredient : ranolazine Inactive ingredients : amino methacrylate copolymer , dibutyl sebacate , ethyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid and ethyl acrylate copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , and talc .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . , Mohali , INDIA Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . , Cranbury , NJ 08512 For more information , call 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 .
• This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration . Issued : February / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 47335 - 624 - 30 ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ™ ( ranolazine ) extended - release granules 500 mg per sachet • Rx onlySUN PHARMA Contains 30 sachets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 47335 - 624 - 60 ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ™ ( ranolazine ) extended - release granules 500 mg per sachet • Rx onlySUN PHARMA Contains 60 sachets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 47335 - 624 - 11 ASPRUZYO Sprinkle ™ ( ranolazine ) extended - release granules 500 mg per sachet • Each sachet contains 500 mg ranolazine • Recommended Dosage : See prescribing information .
• Rx onlySUN PHARMA • This package is child - resistant .
• Keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
