Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Chlophedianol Hydrochloride 12 . 5 mg Guaifenesin 100 mg Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 5 mg Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • helps loosen phelgm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes and make coughs more productive • nasal congestion • reduces swelling of the nasal passages Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage . Do not use this product • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • cough or nasal congestion persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls every 6 to 8 hours , not to exceed 8 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonful every 6 to 8 hours , not to exceed 4 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period Children under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Other information Store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Glycerin , Orange Vanilla Flavor , propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , and Sorbitol .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Call 1 - 787 - 832 - 6645 Serious side effects associated with this product may be reported to this number .
Product Packaging : Packaging below represents the labeling currently used : Principal display panel and side panel for 118 mL label : NDC 49963 - 630 - 04 Clophed Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) for oral administration contains : Chlophedianol HCl .....................................
12 . 5 mg Guaifenesin ...............................................
100 mg Phenylephrine HCl ......................................... 5 mg Cough Suppressant / Expectorant / Nasal Decongestant Alcohol Free / Dye Free / Gluten Free / Sugar Free 4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Supplied in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant cap .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
Manufactured for : Portal Pharmaceutical Mayaguez , PR 00680 Rev . 10 / 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
