Drug Facts Active Ingredients Menthol 7 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves aches and pains of joints and muscles associated with : • backache • arthritis • bursitis • tendonitis • cramps • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings Avoid direct contact with eyes .
For external use only .
When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • do not apply local heat to the area of use • do not apply to wounds , broken , damaged or irritated skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • skin irritation develops or you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where product is applied If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children above 12 years : • open pouch and remove patch • peel off protective backing and carefully apply sticky side to affected area • if affected area is large , use more than one patch for best results • use each patch for up to 15 hours • apply a new patch each day • cut the patch to fit smaller areas • for best results , use with recommended exercises Children 12 years and younger , ask a health professional Other Information Store in a cool , dry place , away from direct sunlight .
Inactive Ingredients Acrylic Adhesive , Aloe Vera ( Aloe Barbadensis ) Extract , Wild Celery ( Angelica Anomala ) Extract , Arnica ( Arnica Montana ) Extract , Safflower ( Carthamus Tinctorius ) Extract , Camphor ( Cinnamomum Camphora ) Extract , Chinese Cinnamon ( Cinnamomum Cassia ) Extract , Mandarin Orange ( Citrus Reticulata ) Extract , Myrrh ( Commiphora Molmol ) Extract , Turmeric ( Curcuma Longa ) Extract , White Turmeric ( Curcuma zedoaria ) Extract , Dragon ' s Blood ( Daemonorops Draco ) Extract , Basket Fern ( Drynaria Fortunei ) Extract , Mastic Sap ( Pistacia Lentiscus ) Extract , Tibetan Rhubarb ( Rheum Officinale ) Extract , Baikal Skullcap ( Scutellaria Baicalensis ) Extract .
UNLOCK YOUR BODY TAKE ME WITH YOU !
I do n't belong in the medicine cabinet .
Throw me in your purse or gym bag , or take me along when you ' re exploring the world or pushing your limits .
Think of me as a tool to unlock a higher experience for moments that matter in your life .
1 .
Peel off the transparent layer 2 .
Place the patch on the affected area .
Use as many as you need .
3 .
Use each patch for up to 15 hours .
4 .
For best results , use the patch with the exercises in your personalized regimen .
www . painfixbody . com Welcome to our community .
Share your # UnlockedBody Story : Made in USA Manufactured for PainFix LLC 195 Plymouth Street , Suite 404 Brooklyn , New York 11201 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
