ACTIVE INGREDIENT Topical starch , 51 % PURPOSE Protectant USE • Provides temporary relief of the itching , burning and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids and other anorectal disorders • Provides a coating to protect irritated tissue WARNINGS For rectal use only .
When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor • in case of bleeding • if condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Adults : • When practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water .
Rinse thoroughly .
• Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before application of this product .
• Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories .
• Remove film before inserting into the rectum by holding the suppository upright .
Carefully separate film by inserting tip of fingernail at film split .
• Carefully peel film slowly and evenly down both sides to expose suppository • Avoid excessive handling of suppository , which is designed to melt at body temperature .
If suppository seems soft , hold in film wrapper under cold water for 2 or 3 minutes .
• Insert one suppository rectally up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years : ask a doctor .
OTHER INFORMATION Store below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS benzyl alcohol , hydrogenated vegetable oil , tocopheryl acetate PACKAGE INFORMATION - REPRESENTATIVE LABEL Compare to the active ingredient in TUCKS ® * HEMORRHOIDAL SUPPOSITORIES TOPICAL STARCH • Relieves itching , burning and discomfort • Protects and soothes irritated tissue 12 SUPPOSITORIES * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer consumer Healthcare , Inc . , owner of the registered trademark TUCKS ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
