WARNING : SERIOUS INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS and NEUROTOXICITY WARNING : SERIOUS INFUSION - RELATED REACTIONS and NEUROTOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Serious Infusion - Related Reactions : DANYELZA can cause serious infusion reactions , including cardiac arrest , anaphylaxis , hypotension , bronchospasm , and stridor .
Premedicate prior to each DANYELZA infusion as recommended .
Reduce the rate , interrupt infusion , or permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 4 , 5 . 1 ) .
• Neurotoxicity : DANYELZA can cause severe neurotoxicity , including severe neuropathic pain , transverse myelitis , and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) .
Premedicate to treat neuropathic pain as recommended .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on the adverse reaction and severity ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) .
Serious Infusion - Related Reactions • DANYELZA can cause serious infusion reactions , including cardiac arrest , anaphylaxis , hypotension , bronchospasm , and stridor .
Infusion reactions of any Grade occurred in 94 - 100 % of patients .
Severe infusion reactions occurred in 32 - 68 % and serious infusion reactions occurred in 4 - 18 % of patients in DANYELZA clinical studies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Premedicate prior to each DANYELZA infusion as recommended and monitor patients for at least 2 hours following completion of each infusion .
Reduce the rate , interrupt infusion , or permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Neurotoxicity • DANYELZA can cause severe neurotoxicity , including severe neuropathic pain , transverse myelitis and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) .
Pain of any Grade occurred in 94 - 100 % of patients in DANYELZA clinical studies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Premedicate to treat neuropathic pain as recommended .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on the adverse reaction and severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DANYELZA is indicated , in combination with granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) , for the treatment of pediatric patients 1 year of age and older and adult patients with relapsed or refractory high - risk neuroblastoma in the bone or bone marrow who have demonstrated a partial response , minor response , or stable disease to prior therapy .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
DANYELZA is a GD2 - binding monoclonal antibody indicated , in combination with granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) , for the treatment of pediatric patients 1 year of age and older and adult patients with relapsed or refractory high - risk neuroblastoma in the bone or bone marrow who have demonstrated a partial response , minor response , or stable disease to prior therapy .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of DANYELZA is 3 mg / kg / day ( up to 150 mg / day ) , administered as an intravenous infusion after dilution on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 of each treatment cycle .
Treatment cycles are repeated every 4 weeks until complete response or partial response , followed by 5 additional cycles every 4 weeks .
Subsequent cycles may be repeated every 8 weeks .
Discontinue DANYELZA and GM - CSF for disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Administer GM - CSF subcutaneously prior to and during each treatment cycle as recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of DANYELZA is 3 mg / kg / day ( up to 150 mg / day ) on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 of each treatment cycle , administered as an intravenous infusion after dilution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) ] in combination with GM - CSF subcutaneously as shown in Table 1 .
Refer to the GM - CSF Prescribing Information for recommended dosing information .
Treatment cycles are repeated every 4 weeks until complete response or partial response , followed by 5 additional cycles every 4 weeks .
Subsequent cycles may be repeated every 8 weeks .
Discontinue DANYELZA and GM - CSF for disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Administer pre - infusion medications and supportive treatment , as appropriate , during infusion .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] The recommended dosage regimen for each treatment cycle is described below and in Table 1 : • Days - 4 to 0 : administer GM - CSF 250 µg / m2 / day by subcutaneous injection , beginning 5 days prior to DANYELZA infusion .
• Days 1 to 5 : administer GM - CSF 500 µg / m2 / day by subcutaneous injection .
Administer at least 1 hour prior to DANYELZA administration on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 .
• Days , 1 , 3 , and 5 : administer DANYELZA 3 mg / kg / day ( up to 150 mg / day ) by intravenous infusion .
Table 1 Dose and Schedule of GM - CSF and DANYELZA Within One Treatment CycleDay - 4 - 3 - 2 - 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 Subcutaneous GM - CSF 250 µg / m2 / day 500 µg / m2 / day Intravenous DANYELZA 3 mg / kg / day 3 mg / kg / day 3 mg / kg / day Missed Dose If a DANYELZA dose is missed , administer the missed dose the following week by Day 10 .
Administer GM - CSF 500 µg / m2 / day on the first day of the DANYELZA infusion , and on the day before and on the day of the second and third infusion , respectively ( i . e . a total of 5 days with 500 µg / m2 / day ) .
2 . 2 Premedications and Supportive Medications Pain Management Prior to and During Infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] : • Five days prior to the first infusion of DANYELZA in each cycle , initiate a 12 - day course ( Day - 4 through Day 7 ) of prophylactic medication for neuropathic pain , such as gabapentin .
• Administer oral opioids 45 - 60 minutes prior to initiation of each DANYELZA infusion and additional intravenous opioids as needed for breakthrough pain during the infusion .
• Consider use of ketamine for pain that is not adequately controlled by opioids .
Premedication : Reduce Risk of Infusion - Related Reactions and Nausea / Vomiting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Administer intravenous corticosteroids ( e . g . methylprednisolone 2 mg / kg with maximum dose of 80 mg or equivalent corticosteroid dose ) 30 minutes to 2 hours prior to the first infusion of DANYELZA .
Administer corticosteroid premedication for subsequent infusions if a severe infusion reaction occurred with the previous infusion or during the previous cycle .
• Administer an antihistamine , an H2 antagonist , acetaminophen and an antiemetic 30 minutes prior to each infusion .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dosage modifications for DANYELZA for adverse reactions are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Recommended DANYELZA Dosage Modifications for Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severity [ 1 ] Dosage Modifications Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Grade 2 Defined as : Therapy or infusion interruption indicated but responds promptly to symptomatic treatment ( e . g . , antihistamines , NSAIDS , narcotics , IV fluids ) ; prophylactic medications indicated for ≤ 24 hours • Reduce DANYELZA infusion rate to 50 % of previous rate and monitor closely until recovery to Grade ≤ 1 • Increase infusion rate gradually to rate prior to the event as tolerated Grade 3 Defined as : Prolonged ( e . g . , not rapidly responsive to symptomatic medication and / or brief interruption of infusion ) ; recurrence of symptoms following initial improvement ; hospitalization indicated for clinical sequelae • Immediately interrupt DANYELZA infusion and monitor closely until recovery to Grade ≤ 2 • Resume infusion at 50 % of the rate prior to the event and increase infusion rate gradually to infusion rate prior to the event as tolerated .
• Permanently discontinue DANYELZA in patients not responding to medical intervention .
Grade 4 infusion - related reactions Defined as : Life - threatening consequences : urgent intervention indicated or Grade 3 or 4 anaphylaxis • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 3 unresponsive to maximum supportive measures • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] All Grades • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Transverse myelitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] All Grades • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Peripheral neuropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Motor neuropathy : Grade 2 or greater or Sensory neuropathy : Grade 3 or 4 • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Neurological disorders of the eye [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Grade 2 to 4 resulting in decreased visual acuity or limiting activities of daily living • Withhold DANYELZA until resolution • If resolved resume DANYELZA at 50 % of the prior dose ; if tolerated without recurrence of symptoms , gradually increase DANYELZA to dose prior to onset of symptoms • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA if not resolved within 2 weeks or upon recurrence Subtotal or total vision loss • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Prolonged urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Persisting following discontinuation of opioids • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold DANYELZA or pause infusion until recovery to ≤ Grade 2 • Resume infusion at 50 % of prior rate ; if tolerated without recurrence of symptoms , gradually increase DANYELZA to rate prior to onset of symptoms • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA in patients not responding to medical intervention Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA Other Adverse Reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 • Withhold DANYELZA until recovery to Grade ≤ 2 • If resolved to Grade ≤ 2 resume DANYELZA at same rate • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA if not resolved to Grade ≤ 2 within 2 weeks Grade 4 • Permanently discontinue DANYELZA [ 1 ] Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) v 5 . 0 2 . 4 Preparation • Use appropriate aseptic technique .
• Visually inspect vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Discard vial if solution is discolored , cloudy , or contains particulate matter .
• Add appropriate quantities of 5 % Albumin ( Human ) , USP and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to an empty , sterile intravenous infusion bag large enough to hold the volume needed for the relevant dose as indicated in Table 3 .
Allow for 5 - 10 minutes of passive mixing .
• Withdraw the required dose of DANYELZA and inject into the infusion bag containing the 5 % Albumin ( Human ) , USP and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Discard any unused portion of DANYELZA left in the vial .
Preparation instructions for DANYELZA are described in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Preparation of DANYELZA , 4 mg / mlDANYELZA dose ( mg ) DANYELZA volume ( mL ) Volume of 5 % Albumin ( Human ) , USP ( mL ) Total infusion volume achieved by adding sufficient 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP ( mL ) Final concentration of prepared DANYELZA infusion ( mg / mL ) ≤ 80 ≤ 20 10 50 ≤ 1 . 6 81 to 120 > 20 to 30 15 75 1 . 1 to 1 . 6 121 to 160 > 30 to 40 20 100 1 . 2 to 1 . 6 161 to 200 > 40 to 50 25 125 1 . 3 to 1 . 6 201 to 240 > 50 to 60 30 150 1 . 3 to 1 . 6 241 to 280 > 60 to 70 35 175 1 . 4 to 1 . 6 If not used immediately , store the diluted DANYELZA infusion solution at room temperature ( 15 ° C to 25 ° C [ 59ºF to 77ºF ] ) for up to 8 hours or refrigerate ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C [ 36 ° F to 46 ° F ] ) for up to 24 hours .
Once removed from refrigeration , initiate infusion within 8 hours .
2 . 5 Administration • Administer DANYELZA as a diluted intravenous infusion as recommended .
Do not administer DANYELZA as an intravenous push or bolus [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
• For the first infusion ( Cycle 1 , Day 1 ) , administer DANYELZA intravenously over 60 minutes .
For subsequent infusions , administer DANYELZA intravenously over 30 to 60 minutes , as tolerated .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Observe patients for a minimum of 2 hours following each infusion .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 40 mg / 10 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 40 mg / 10 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DANYELZA is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reaction to naxitamab - gqgk .
Reactions have included anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
History of severe hypersensitivity reaction to naxitamab - gqgk .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Neurotoxicity : Peripheral neuropathy , neurological disorders of the eye , and prolonged urinary retention have also occurred .
Permanently discontinue as recommended ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 2 ) • Hypertension : Monitor blood pressure during and after infusion as recommended .
Withhold , reduce infusion rate , or discontinue based on severity .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : May cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Serious Infusion - Related Reactions DANYELZA can cause serious infusion reactions requiring urgent intervention including fluid resuscitation , administration of bronchodilators and corticosteroids , intensive care unit admission , infusion rate reduction or interruption of DANYELZA infusion .
Infusion - related reactions included hypotension , bronchospasm , hypoxia , and stridor [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Serious infusion - related reactions occurred in 4 % of patients in Study 201 and in 18 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Infusion - related reactions of any Grade occurred in 100 % of patients in Study 201 and 94 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Hypotension of any grade occurred in 100 % of patients in Study 201 and 89 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
In Study 201 , 68 % of patients experienced Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions ; and in Study 12 - 230 , 32 % of patients experienced Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions .
Anaphylaxis occurred in 12 % of patients and 2 patients ( 8 % ) permanently discontinued DANYELZA due to anaphylaxis in Study 201 .
One patient in Study 12 - 230 ( 1 . 4 % ) experienced a Grade 4 cardiac arrest 1 . 5 hours following completion of DANYELZA infusion .
In Study 201 , infusion reactions generally occurred within 24 hours of completing a DANYELZA infusion , most often within 30 minutes of initiation .
Infusion reactions were most frequent during the first infusion of DANYELZA in each cycle .
Eighty percent of patients required reduction in infusion rate and 80 % of patients had an infusion interrupted for at least one infusion - related reaction .
Premedicate with an antihistamine , acetaminophen , an H2 antagonist and corticosteroid as recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of infusion reactions during and for at least 2 hours following completion of each DANYELZA infusion in a setting where cardiopulmonary resuscitation medication and equipment are available .
Reduce the rate , interrupt infusion , or permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity and institute appropriate medical management as needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Neurotoxicity DANYELZA can cause severe neurotoxicity , including severe neuropathic pain , transverse myelitis , and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome .
Pain Pain , including abdominal pain , bone pain , neck pain , and extremity pain , occurred in 100 % of patients in Study 201 and 94 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Grade 3 pain occurred in 72 % of patients in Study 201 .
One patient in Study 201 ( 4 % ) required interruption of an infusion due to pain .
Pain typically began during the infusion of DANYELZA and lasted a median of less than one day in Study 201 ( range less than one day and up to 62 days ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Premedicate with drugs that treat neuropathic pain ( e . g . , gabapentin ) and oral opioids .
Administer intravenous opioids as needed for breakthrough pain [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Transverse Myelitis Transverse myelitis has occurred with DANYELZA .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA in patients who develop transverse myelitis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS ) Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome ( RPLS ) ( also known as posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome or PRES ) occurred in 2 ( 2 . 8 % ) patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Events occurred 2 and 7 days following completion of the first cycle of DANYELZA .
Monitor blood pressure during and following DANYELZA infusion and assess for neurologic symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA in case of symptomatic RPLS [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy , including peripheral sensory neuropathy , peripheral motor neuropathy , paresthesia , and neuralgia , occurred in 32 % of patients in Study 201 and in 25 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Most signs and symptoms of neuropathy began on the day of the infusion and neuropathy lasted a median of 5 . 5 days ( range 0 to 22 days ) in Study 201 and 0 days ( range 0 to 22 days ) in Study 12 - 230 [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Neurological Disorders of the Eye Neurological disorders of the eye including unequal pupils , blurred vision , accommodation disorder , mydriasis , visual impairment , and photophobia occurred in 24 % of patients in Study 201 and 19 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Neurological disorders of the eye lasted a median of 17 days ( range 0 to 84 days ) in Study 201 with two patients ( 8 % ) experiencing an event that had not resolved at the time of data cutoff , and a median of 1 day ( range less than one day to 21 days ) in Study 12 - 230 .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Prolonged Urinary Retention Urinary retention occurred in 1 ( 4 % ) patient in Study 201 and in 3 patients ( 4 % ) in Study 12 - 230 .
All events in both studies occurred on the day of an infusion of DANYELZA and lasted between 0 and 24 days .
Permanently discontinue DANYELZA in patients with urinary retention that does not resolve following discontinuation of opioids [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypertension Hypertension occurred in 44 % of patients in Study 201 and 28 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 who received DANYELZA .
Grade 3 or 4 hypertension occurred in 4 % of patients in Study 201 and 7 % of patients in Study 12 - 230 .
Four patients ( 6 % ) in Study 12 - 230 permanently discontinued DANYELZA due to hypertension .
In both studies , most events occurred on the day of DANYELZA infusion and occurred up to 9 days following an infusion of DANYELZA .
Do not initiate DANYELZA in patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure during infusion , and at least daily on Days 1 to 8 of each cycle of DANYELZA and evaluate for complications of hypertension including RPLS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Interrupt DANYELZA infusion and resume at a reduced rate , or permanently discontinue DANYELZA based on the severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , DANYELZA may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Advise females of reproductive potential , including pregnant women , of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraceptive during treatment with DANYELZA and for two months after the final dose .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are also described elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious Infusion - Related Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Neurotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 25 % ) are infusion - related reaction , pain , tachycardia , vomiting , cough , nausea , diarrhea , decreased appetite , hypertension , fatigue , erythema multiforme , peripheral neuropathy , urticaria , pyrexia , headache , injection site reaction , edema , anxiety , localized edema , and irritability ( 6 . 1 ) .
• The most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 5 % ) are decreased lymphocytes , decreased neutrophils , decreased hemoglobin , decreased platelet count , decreased potassium , increased alanine aminotransferase , decreased glucose , decreased calcium , decreased albumin , decreased sodium , and decreased phosphate ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc , at 1 - 833 - 339 - 6227 ( 1 - 833 - 33 YMABS ) , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical TrialsExperience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF was evaluated in patients with refractory or relapsed high - risk neuroblastoma in bone or bone marrow who had demonstrated a partial response , minor response , or stable disease following initial or subsequent therapy , and in patients who were in second complete remission , from two open - label , single arm studies , Study 201 ( n = 25 ) and Study 12 - 230 ( n = 72 ) .
Patients received DANYELZA 9 mg / kg / cycle administered as three separate intravenous infusions of 3 mg / kg ( Day 1 , 3 and 5 ) in the first week of each cycle .
Patients also received GM - CSF 250 µg / m2 / day subcutaneously on Days - 4 to 0 and GM - CSF 500 µg / m2 / day subcutaneously on Days 1 to 5 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions in Studies 201 and 12 - 230 ( ≥ 25 % in either study ) were infusion - related reaction , pain , tachycardia , vomiting , cough , nausea , diarrhea , decreased appetite , hypertension , fatigue , erythema multiforme , peripheral neuropathy , urticaria , pyrexia , headache , injection site reaction , edema , anxiety , localized edema and irritability .
The most common Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 5 % in either study ) were decreased lymphocytes , decreased neutrophils , decreased hemoglobin , decreased platelet count , decreased potassium , increased alanine aminotransferase , decreased glucose , decreased calcium , decreased albumin , decreased sodium and decreased phosphate .
Study 201 In Study 201 , among 25 patients who received DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF , 12 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and none were exposed for greater than one year .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 32 % of patients who received DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF .
Serious adverse reactions in more than one patient included anaphylactic reaction ( 12 % ) and pain ( 8 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of DANYELZA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 12 % of patients .
Adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation of DANYELZA included anaphylactic reaction ( 8 % ) and respiratory depression ( 4 % ) .
Dosage interruptions of DANYELZA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 84 % of patients .
Adverse reactions requiring dosage interruption in > 10 % of patients included hypotension and bronchospasm .
Table 4 summarizes adverse reactions in Study 201 .
Table 4 .
Adverse Reactions ( > 10 % ) in Patients with Refractory or Relapsed High - Risk Neuroblastoma in Bone or Bone Marrow Who Received DANYELZA with GM - CSF in Study 201 Adverse Reaction DANYELZA with GM - CSF [ 1 ] ( n = 25 ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Body system General disorders and administration site conditions Pain [ 2 ] 100 72 Infusion - related reaction [ 3 ] 100 68 Edema 28 0 Fatigue [ 4 ] 28 0 Pyrexia [ 5 ] 28 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 60 0 Rhinorrhea 24 0 Vascular disorders Hypertension 44 4 Gastrointestinal disorders Vomiting 60 4 Diarrhea 56 8 Nausea 56 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Urticaria [ 6 ] 32 4 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia [ 7 ] 84 4 Nervous system disorders Peripheral neuropathy [ 8 ] 32 0 Headache 28 8 Depressed level of consciousness 24 16 Eye disorders Neurological disorders of the eye [ 9 ] 24 0 Immune system disorders Anaphylactic reaction 12 12 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 16 0 Infections and infestations Influenza 12 0 Rhinovirus infection 12 0 Upper respiratory tract infection 12 0 Investigations Weight decreased 12 0 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 12 0 [ 1 ] Adverse reactions were graded using CTCAE version 4 . 0 .
[ 2 ] Pain includes pain , abdominal pain , pain in extremity , bone pain , neck pain , back pain , and musculoskeletal pain .
[ 3 ] Infusion - related reaction includes hypotension , bronchospasm , flushing , wheezing , stridor , urticaria , dyspnea , pyrexia , infusion - related reaction , face edema , edema mouth , tongue edema , lip edema , respiratory tract edema , chills , hypoxia , pruritis and rash occurring on the day of infusion or the day following an infusion .
[ 4 ] Fatigue includes fatigue , asthenia .
[ 5 ] Pyrexia not occurring on the day of infusion or the day following an infusion [ 6 ] Urticaria , not occurring on the day of infusion or the day following an infusion [ 7 ] Tachycardia includes sinus tachycardia and tachycardia [ 8 ] Peripheral neuropathy includes peripheral sensory neuropathy , paresthesia , neuralgia .
[ 9 ] Neurological disorders of the eye includes unequal pupils , blurred vision , and mydriasis .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions occurring in ≤ 10 % of patients who received DANYELZA with GM - CSF included peripheral edema ( 8 % ) .
Table 5 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in Study 201 .
Table 5 .
Selected Laboratory Abnormalities ( > 20 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients with Refractory or Relapsed High - Risk Neuroblastoma in Bone or Bone Marrow Who Received DANYELZA with GM - CSF in Study 201 Laboratory Abnormality DANYELZA with GM - CSF [ 1 ] n = 25 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Chemistry Decreased potassium 63 8 Decreased albumin 50 0 Increased alanine aminotransferase 42 8 Decreased sodium 29 0 Hematology Decreased lymphocytes 74 30 Decreased platelet count 65 17 Decreased neutrophils 61 39 Decreased hemoglobin 48 4 [ 1 ] The table presents laboratory parameters with available grading according to CTCAE version 4 . 0 .
Baseline evaluation was the last non - missing value prior to first DANYELZA dosing .
Each test incidence is based on the number of patients who had both a baseline value and at least one on - study laboratory measurement ( range : 23 to 24 patients ) .
Study 12 - 230 In Study 12 - 230 , among 72 patients who received DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF , 32 % were exposed for 6 months or longer and 8 % were exposed for greater than one year .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 40 % of patients who received DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF .
Serious adverse reactions in > 5 % of patients included hypertension ( 14 % ) , hypotension ( 11 % ) , and pyrexia ( 8 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation of DANYELZA due to an adverse reaction occurred in 8 % of patients .
Four ( 6 % ) patients permanently discontinued DANYELZA due to hypertension and one ( 1 . 4 % ) patient discontinued due to RPLS .
Table 6 summarizes adverse reactions in Study 12 - 230 .
Table 6 .
Adverse Reactions ( > 10 % ) in Patients with Refractory or Relapsed High - Risk Neuroblastoma in Bone or Bone Marrow Who Received DANYELZA with GM - CSF in Study 12 - 230 Adverse Reaction DANYELZA with GM - CSF [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] ( n = 72 ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Body system General disorders and administration site conditions Infusion - related reaction [ 3 ] 94 32 Pain [ 4 ] 94 2 . 8 Fatigue [ 5 ] 44 0 Injection site reaction 28 0 Localized edema 25 0 Pyrexia [ 6 ] 11 0 Vascular disorders Hypertension 28 7 Gastrointestinal disorders Vomiting 63 2 . 8 Nausea 57 1 . 4 Diarrhea 50 4 . 2 Constipation 15 0 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Erythema multiforme 33 0 Hyperhidrosis 17 0 Erythema 11 0 Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 57 0 Oropharyngeal pain 15 0 Rhinorrhea 15 0 Nervous system disorders Peripheral neuropathy [ 7 ] 25 0 Headache 18 0 Lethargy 14 0 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite 53 4 . 2 Cardiac disorders Sinus tachycardia 44 1 . 4 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 26 0 Irritability 25 0 Investigations Breath sounds abnormal 15 0 Injury and procedural complications Contusion 15 0 Infections and infestations Rhinovirus infection 14 0 Enterovirus infection 13 0 Eye Disorders Neurological disorders of the eye [ 8 ] 19 0 [ 1 ] In Study 12 - 230 , all adverse reactions occurring in Cycle 1 and 2 , and adverse reactions of ≥ Grade 3 severity occurring in subsequent cycles were reported .
In the dose finding phase , Grade 2 unexpected adverse reactions were also reported for Cycles 3 and later .
[ 2 ] Adverse reactions were graded using CTCAE version 4 . 0 .
[ 3 ] Infusion - related reaction includes hypotension , bronchospasm , flushing , wheezing , stridor , urticaria , dyspnea , pyrexia , face edema , periorbital edema , lip swelling , swollen tongue , chills , hypoxia , pruritis , rash maculopapular and rash erythematous occurring on the day of infusion or the day following an infusion .
[ 4 ] Pain includes pain , abdominal pain , pain in extremity , bone pain , neck pain , back pain , non - cardiac chest pain , flank pain , and musculoskeletal pain .
[ 5 ] Fatigue includes fatigue , asthenia .
[ 6 ] Pyrexia not occurring on the day of infusion or the day following an infusion .
[ 7 ] Peripheral neuropathy includes peripheral sensory neuropathy , peripheral motor neuropathy , paresthesia , neuralgia .
[ 8 ] Neurological disorders of the eye includes unequal pupils , blurred vision , accommodation disorder , visual impairment and photophobia .
Clinically relevant adverse reactions in ≤ 10 % of patients who received DANYELZA with GM - CSF included apnea ( 4 . 2 % ) , hypopnea ( 2 . 8 % ) , generalized edema ( 2 . 8 % ) , peripheral edema ( 8 . 3 % ) , and device related infection ( 4 . 2 % ) .
Table 7 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in Study 12 - 230 .
Table 7 .
Selected Laboratory Abnormalities ( > 20 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients with Refractory or Relapsed High - Risk Neuroblastoma in Bone or Bone Marrow Who Received DANYELZA with GM - CSF in Study 12 - 230 Laboratory Abnormality DANYELZA with GM - CSF [ 1 ] n = 72 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 or 4 ( % ) Chemistry Increased glucose 74 0 Decreased albumin 68 7 Decreased calcium 64 8 Increased alanine aminotransferase 55 9 Decreased magnesium 54 0 Increased aspartate aminotransferase 49 4 Decreased phosphate 47 5 Decreased potassium 47 32 Decreased sodium 38 6 Decreased glucose 29 8 Hematology Decreased lymphocytes 79 56 Decreased hemoglobin 76 42 Decreased neutrophils 72 46 Decreased platelets 71 40 [ 1 ] The table presents laboratory parameters with available grading according to CTCAE version 4 . 0 .
Baseline evaluation was the last non - missing value prior to first DANYELZA dosing .
Each test incidence is based on the number of patients who had both a baseline value and at least one on - study laboratory measurement ( range 19 to 72 patients ) .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of anti - drug antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of anti - drug antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies or to other naxitamab products may be misleading .
In Study 201 , 2 of 24 ( 8 % ) patients tested positive for anti - drug antibodies ( ADA ) after treatment with DANYELZA .
In Study 12 - 230 , 27 of 117 patients ( 23 % ) tested positive for ADA after treatment with DANYELZA by an assay that was not fully validated ; therefore , the incidence of ADA may not be reliable .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience / Spontaneous Reports The following adverse reactions have been identified from expanded access reports with use of DANYELZA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Neurological : Transverse myelitis 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , DANYELZA may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data on the use of DANYELZA in pregnant women and no animal reproduction studies have been conducted with DANYELZA .
IgG1 monoclonal antibodies are transported across the placenta in a linear fashion as pregnancy progresses , with the largest amount transferred during the third trimester .
Advise pregnant women of potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of naxitamab - gqgk in human milk or its effects on the breastfed child , or on milk production , however , human IgG is present in human milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from DANYELZA , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment and for 2 months after the final dose of DANYELZA .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential DANYELZA may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating DANYELZA .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 2 months after the final dose of DANYELZA .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of DANYELZA , in combination with GM - CSF for the treatment of relapsed or refractory high - risk neuroblastoma in the bone or bone marrow who have demonstrated a partial response , minor response or stable disease following prior therapy , have been established in pediatric patients 1 year of age and older .
Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Neuroblastoma is largely a disease of pediatric and young adult patients .
Clinical studies of DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF did not include patients 65 years of age and older .
11 DESCRIPTION Naxitamab - gqgk is a glycolipid disialoganglioside ( GD2 ) - binding recombinant humanized monoclonal IgG1 antibody , that contains human framework regions and murine complementarity - determining regions .
Naxitamab - gqgk is produced in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line and has an approximate molecular weight of 144 kDa without glycosylation .
DANYELZA ( naxitamab - gqgk ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to slightly yellow solution for intravenous infusion .
Each single - dose vial contains 40 mg of naxitamab - gqgk in 10 mL of solution .
Each mL of solution contains 4 mg of naxitamab - gqgk , and citric acid anhydrous ( 0 . 71 mg ) , poloxamer 188 ( 1 . 5 mg ) , sodium chloride ( 7 . 01 mg ) , sodium citrate ( 6 . 3 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is approximately 5 . 7 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Naxitamab - gqgk binds to the glycolipid GD2 .
GD2 is a disialoganglioside that is overexpressed on neuroblastoma cells and other cells of neuroectodermal origin , including the central nervous system and peripheral nerves .
In vitro , naxitamab - gqgk was able to bind to cell surface GD2 and induce complement dependent cytotoxicity ( CDC ) and antibody dependent cell - mediated cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The exposure - response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamic response for the safety and effectiveness of naxitamab - gqgk have not been fully characterized .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The geometric mean ( CV % ) maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of naxitamab - gqgk was 57 . 4 µg / mL ( 49 % ) following DANYELZA 3 mg / kg intravenous infusion over 30 minutes .
Elimination The mean terminal half - life of naxitamab - gqgk was 8 . 2 days .
Metabolism Naxitamab - gqgk is expected to be metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways .
Specific Populations Population pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that age ( range : 1 to 34 years ) , sex and race have no clinically important effect on the clearance ( CL ) of naxitamab - gqgk .
The naxitamab - gqgk systemic exposure ( AUC ) at 150 mg / day ( 450 mg per cycle ) for patients with body weight over 50 kg is not expected to differ clinically from that of the naxitamab - gqgk exposures at 3 mg / kg / day ( 9 mg / kg per cycle ) for patients with body weight of 30 - 50 kg .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of naxitamab - gqgk .
Dedicated studies evaluating the effects of naxitamab - gqgk on fertility in animals have not been conducted .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Non - clinical studies suggest that naxitamab - gqgk - induced neuropathic pain is mediated by binding of the antibody to the GD2 antigen located on the surface of peripheral nerve fibers and myelin and subsequent induction of immune - mediated cytotoxic activity .
In a nude rat model , slight - moderate hyperplasia and erosion of the glandular mucosa of the stomach occurred , occasionally accompanied by diffuse inflammation .
Complete recovery of all histopathological findings in the stomachs of male rats was observed ; however , only partial recovery was observed in the stomachs of female rats during the four week off - drug period .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF was evaluated in two open - label , single arm trials in patients with high - risk neuroblastoma with refractory or relapsed disease in the bone or bone marrow , Study 201 and Study 12 - 230 .
Study 201 The efficacy of DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF was evaluated in Study 201 ( NCT03363373 ) , a multicenter open - label , single arm trial , in a subpopulation of patients who had refractory or relapsed high - risk neuroblastoma in the bone or bone marrow and demonstrated a partial response , minor response , or stable disease to prior therapy .
Patients with progressive disease were excluded .
All patients received at least one systemic therapy to treat disease outside of the bone or bone marrow prior to enrollment .
Patients received DANYELZA 9 mg / kg / cycle administered as three separate intravenous infusions of 3 mg / kg on Days 1 , 3 and 5 of each cycle .
Patients received GM - CSF subcutaneously at 250 µg / m2 / day on Days - 4 to 0 and at 500 µg / m2 / day on Days 1 to 5 .
Preplanned radiation to the primary site was allowed .
The major efficacy outcome measure was overall response rate ( ORR ) according to the revised International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria ( INRC ) , as determined by independent pathology and imaging review and confirmed by at least one subsequent assessment .
An additional efficacy outcome measure was duration of response ( DOR ) .
Of the 22 patients included in the efficacy analysis , 64 % had refractory disease and 36 % had relapsed disease ; the median age was 5 years ( range 3 to 10 years ) , 59 % were male ; 45 % were White , 50 % were Asian and 5 % were Black .
MYCN amplification was present in 14 % of patients and 86 % of patients were International Neuroblastoma Staging System ( INSS ) stage 4 at time of diagnosis .
Disease sites included 59 % in the bone only , 9 % in bone marrow only , and 32 % in both .
Prior therapies included surgery ( 91 % ) , chemotherapy ( 95 % ) , radiation ( 36 % ) , autologous stem cell transplant ( ASCT ) ( 18 % ) , and anti - GD2 antibody treatment ( 18 % ) .
Efficacy results for Study 201 are described in Table 8 .
Table 8 .
Efficacy Results from Study 201 DANYELZA with GM - CSF ( n = 22 ) CI = confidence interval NE : not estimable .
Overall response rate [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) 45 % ( 24 % , 68 % ) Complete response rate 36 % Partial response rate 9 % Duration of response Median ( 95 % CI ) , months 6 . 2 ( 4 . 9 , NE ) Responders with DOR ≥ 6 months 30 % [ 1 ] Overall response rate is defined as a complete or partial response according to the revised INRC ( 2017 ) that was confirmed by at least one subsequent assessment .
Responses were observed in the bone , bone marrow , or both bone and bone marrow .
In an exploratory analysis in the subset of patients previously treated with an anti - GD2 antibody ( n = 4 ) , one patient demonstrated a confirmed complete response and no patients demonstrated a partial response .
Study 12 - 230 The efficacy of DANYELZA in combination with GM - CSF was evaluated in Study 12 - 230 ( NCT01757626 ) , a single center , open - label , single arm trial , in a subpopulation of patients who had relapsed or refractory high - risk neuroblastoma in bone or bone marrow and demonstrated a partial response , minor response , or stable disease to prior therapy .
Patients with progressive disease were excluded .
All patients received at least one systemic therapy to treat disease outside of the bone or bone marrow prior to enrollment .
Patients were required to have received at least one dose of DANYELZA at a dose of 3 mg / kg or greater per infusion and have evaluable disease at baseline according to independent review per the revised INRC .
Patients received DANYELZA 9 mg / kg / cycle administered as three separate intravenous infusions of 3 mg / kg ( on Days 1 , 3 and 5 ) in the first week of each cycle .
Patients received GM - CSF subcutaneously at 250 µg / m2 / day on Days - 4 to 0 and at 500 µg / m2 / day on Days 1 to 5 .
Radiation to non - target bony lesions and soft tissue lesions was permitted at the investigator ' s discretion ; assessment of response excluded sites that received radiation .
The major efficacy outcome measures were overall response rate ( ORR ) and duration of response ( DOR ) , as determined by independent pathology and imaging review according to the revised INRC and confirmed by at least one subsequent assessment .
Of the 38 patients included in the efficacy analysis , 55 % had relapsed neuroblastoma and 45 % had refractory disease ; 50 % were male , the median age was 5 years ( range 2 to 23 years ) , 74 % were White , 8 % Asian and 5 % were Black , 5 % Native American / American Indian / Alaska Native , 3 % other races and 5 % was not available .
MYCN - amplification was present in 16 % of patients and most patients were International Neuroblastoma Staging System ( INSS ) stage 4 ( 95 % ) .
Fifty percent ( 50 % ) of patients had disease involvement in the bone only , 11 % only in bone marrow , and 39 % in both .
Prior therapies included surgery ( 100 % ) , chemotherapy ( 100 % ) , radiation ( 47 % ) , autologous stem cell transplant ( ASCT ) ( 42 % ) , and anti - GD2 antibody treatment ( 58 % ) .
Efficacy results are provided in Table 9 .
Table 9 .
Efficacy Results from Study 12 - 230 DANYELZA with GM - CSF ( n = 38 ) CI = confidence interval Overall response rate [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) 34 % ( 20 % , 51 % ) Complete response rate 26 % Partial response rate 8 % Duration of Response Responders with DOR ≥ 6 months 23 % [ 1 ] Overall response rate is defined as a complete or partial response according to the revised INRC ( 2017 ) that was confirmed by at least one subsequent assessment .
Responses were observed in the bone , bone marrow , or both bone and bone marrow .
In an exploratory analysis in the subset of patients previously treated with an anti - GD2 antibody ( n = 22 ) , the ORR was 18 % ( 95 % CI 5 % , 40 % ) , with no patients having a documented response of 6 months or greater .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DANYELZA ( naxitamab - gqgk ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent and colorless to slightly yellow solution for intravenous infusion supplied as a carton containing one 40 mg / 10 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) single - dose vial .
NDC 73042 - 201 - 01 Store DANYELZA vial refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the outer carton to protect from light until time of use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Serious Infusion - Related Reactions Advise patients and caregivers that DANYELZA can cause serious infusion - related reactions and anaphylaxis and to immediately report any signs or symptoms , such as facial or lip swelling , urticaria , or difficulty breathing , that occur during or following the infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Neurotoxicity Advise patients and caregivers that DANYELZA can cause neurotoxicity , including severe pain , peripheral neuropathy , neurological disorders of the eye , prolonged urinary retention , transverse myelitis , and reverse posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for any new or worsening neurological symptoms .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypertension Advise patients and caregivers that DANYELZA can cause hypertension and to immediately report signs or symptoms of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential , including pregnant women , of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy and to use effective contraception during treatment with and for 2 months after the final dose of DANYELZA Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with DANYELZA and for 2 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
DANYELZA is a trademark of Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc .
© 2020 Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc . – All rights reserved .
Manufactured by : Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc 230 Park Avenue , Suite 3350 New York , NY 10169 U . S . License No . 2209 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 11 / 2020 PATIENT INFORMATION DANYELZA ® ( dan - YEL - zah ) ( naxitamab - gqgk ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about DANYELZA ?
DANYELZA may cause serious side effects , including : • Serious infusion - related reactions .
DANYELZA can cause serious infusion - related reactions that require immediate medical attention .
Infusion - related reactions are common with DANYELZA .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any signs or symptoms during or after your DANYELZA infusion , including : • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , mouth , or tongue • itching • redness on your face ( flushing ) • skin rash or hives • trouble breathing • cough or wheezing • noisy high - pitched breathing • feeling faint or dizziness ( low blood pressure ) • Nervous system problems .
Talk to your healthcare provider right away if you have new symptoms or worsening of nervous system problems , including : • Severe pain from nerves ( neuropathic pain ) , including pain in the belly ( abdomen ) , bone , neck , legs or arms .
Pain is common with DANYELZA and can be severe .
• Inflammation of the spinal cord .
Signs or symptoms may include : • weakness in your legs or arms • bladder and bowel problems • pain in back , legs , or stomach ( abdomen ) • numbness • tingling • burning sensation • • Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome ( RPLS – also known as Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome - PRES ) .
PRES is a condition that affects the brain .
Your healthcare provider will monitor your blood pressure and check for any neurologic symptoms after your DANYELZA infusion .
Signs or symptoms of PRES may include : • severe headache • vision changes • changes in mental status , such as confusion , disorientation , or decreased alertness • difficulty speaking • weakness in your arms or legs • seizures • • Numbness , tingling , or burning sensation in the arms or legs .
• Nervous system problems of the eye .
Signs or symptoms may include : • unequal pupil size • blurred vision • trouble focusing your eyes • larger pupil size ( dilated ) • decreased ability to see • sensitivity to light • • Problems urinating or emptying your bladder ( prolonged urinary retention ) .
What is DANYELZA ?
DANYELZA is a prescription medicine used in combination with a medicine called granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) to treat children 1 year of age and older and adults with high - risk neuroblastoma in the bone or bone marrow that : • has come back ( relapsed ) or that did not respond to previous treatment ( refractory ) , and • has shown a partial response , minor response , or stable disease to prior therapy .
Do not receive DANYELZA if you have had a severe allergic reaction to naxitamab - gqgk , the active ingredient in DANYELZA .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
Before receiving DANYELZA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have high blood pressure • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
DANYELZA may harm your unborn baby .
• Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with DANYELZA .
• Females who are able to become pregnant should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment and for 2 months after your last dose of DANYELZA .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control choices that may be right for you during this time .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you might be pregnant during treatment with DANYELZA .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if DANYELZA passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment and for 2 months after your last dose of DANYELZA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive DANYELZA ?
• Your healthcare provider will give you DANYELZA into your vein through an intravenous ( I . V . ) line over a minimum of 30 or 60 minutes .
• DANYELZA is given on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 of each treatment cycle .
• DANYELZA is used with another medicine called GM - CSF .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about GM - CSF .
• DANYELZA treatment cycles are usually repeated every 4 or 8 weeks .
Your healthcare provider will decide how many treatment cycles you need .
• Your healthcare provider will give you certain medicines before and during your DANYELZA infusion to help decrease your risk of getting pain , infusion - related reactions , and nausea or vomiting .
• Your healthcare provider may slow down your infusion rate , temporarily stop DANYELZA infusion , or permanently stop treatment with DANYELZA if you have certain side effects .
• You will be monitored for side effects for at least 2 hours after each DANYELZA infusion .
• If you miss an appointment , call your healthcare provider as soon as possible to reschedule .
What are the possible side effects of DANYELZA ?
DANYELZA may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about DANYELZA ? "
• High blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
High blood pressure is common in people who receive DANYELZA .
Your blood pressure will be monitored during your DANYELZA infusion , and at least each day on Days 1 to 8 of each DANYELZA treatment cycle .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any signs or symptoms of high blood pressure , including : • headaches • seizures • nausea or vomiting • chest pain • dizziness • visual changes • shortness of breath • feeling that your heart is pounding or racing ( palpitations ) • nose bleeds The most common side effects of DANYELZA include : • fast heart rate • vomiting • cough • nausea • decreased white blood cell , red blood cell , and platelet counts • diarrhea • decreased appetite • tiredness • skin rashes • decreased level of potassium , sodium , and phosphate in the blood • hives • fever • headache • injection site reaction • swelling of the body or only in one part of the body • anxiety • irritability • increased liver function blood tests • decreased blood sugar level • decreased calcium levels in the blood • decreased protein levels ( albumin ) in the blood These are not all of the possible side effects of DANYELZA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of DANYELZA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about DANYELZA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in DANYELZA ?
Active ingredient : naxitamab - gqgk Inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , poloxamer 188 , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , water for Injection ; USP .
Manufactured by : Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc . , 230 Park Avenue , Suite 3350 , New York , NY 10169 U . S . License number 2209 For more information , go to www . DANYELZA . com or call 1 - 833 - 339 - 6227 ( 1 - 833 - 33 YMABS ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg / 10 mL Vial Carton NDC 73042 - 201 - 01 DANYELZA ™ ( naxitamab - gqgk ) Injection 40 mg / 10 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) Rx ONLY For intravenous infusion after dilution Single - dose vial Discard unused portion No preservative Y - mAbs Therapeutics , Inc . ™ [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
