DESCRIPTION Leucovorin is one of several active , chemically reduced derivatives of folic acid .
It is useful as an antidote to drugs which act as folic acid antagonists .
Also known as folinic acid , Citrovorum factor , or 5 - formyl - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydrofolic acid , this compound has the chemical designation of Calcium N - [ p - [ [ [ ( 6 RS ) - 2 - amino - 5 - formyl - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - 4 - hydroxy - 6 - pteridinyl ] methyl ] amino ] benzoyl ] - L - glutamate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The structural formula of leucovorin calcium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C20H21CaN7O7 M . W = 511 . 50 Leucovorin Calcium Injection USP is a sterile , preservative - free solution indicated for intramuscular ( IM ) or intravenous ( IV ) administration in a 50 mL single - dose vial .
Each mL contains leucovorin calcium equivalent to 10 mg Leucovorin , USP ; 8 mg sodium chloride ; sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment ( pH 6 . 5 to 8 . 5 ) .
There is 0 . 004 mEq of calcium per mg of leucovorin .
Solution contains no bacteriostat or antimicrobial agents .
One milligram of leucovorin calcium contains 0 . 002 mmol of leucovorin and 0 . 002 mmol of calcium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leucovorin is a mixture of the diastereoisomers of the 5 - formyl derivative of tetrahydrofolic acid ( THF ) .
The biologically active compound of the mixture is the ( - ) - l - isomer , known as Citrovorum factor or ( - ) - folinic acid .
Leucovorin does not require reduction by the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in order to participate in reactions utilizing folates as a source of “ one - carbon ” moieties .
l - Leucovorin ( l - 5 formyltetrahydrofolate ) is rapidly metabolized ( via 5 , 10 - methenyltetrahydrofolate then 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate ) to l - 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
L - 5 - Methyltetrahydrofolate can in turn be metabolized via other pathways back to 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate , which is converted to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate by an irreversible , enzyme catalyzed reduction using the cofactors FADH2 and NADPH .
Administration of leucovorin can counteract the therapeutic and toxic effects of folic acid antagonists such as methotrexate , which act by inhibiting dihydrofolate reductase .
In contrast , leucovorin can enhance the therapeutic and toxic effects of fluoropyrimidines used in cancer therapy , such as 5 - fluorouracil .
Concurrent administration of leucovorin does not appear to alter the plasma pharmacokinetics of 5 - fluorouracil .
5 - Fluorouracil is metabolized to fluorodeoxyuridylic acid , which binds to and inhibits the enzyme thymidylate synthase ( an enzyme important in DNA repair and replication ) .
Leucovorin is readily converted to another reduced folate , 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate , which acts to stabilize the binding of fluorodeoxyridylic acid to thymidylate synthase and thereby enhances the inhibition of this enzyme .
The pharmacokinetics after intravenous , intramuscular and oral administration of a 25 mg dose of leucovorin were studied in male volunteers .
After intravenous administration , serum total reduced folates ( as measured by Lactobacillus casei assay ) reached a mean peak of 1259 ng / mL ( range 897 to 1625 ) .
The mean time to peak was 10 minutes .
This initial rise in total reduced folates was primarily due to the parent compound 5 - formyl - THF ( measured by Streptococcus faecalis assay ) which rose to 1206 ng / mL at 10 minutes .
A sharp drop in parent compound followed and coincided with the appearance of the active metabolite 5 - methyl - THF which became the predominant circulating form of the drug .
The mean peak of 5 - methyl - THF was 258 ng / mL and occurred at 1 . 3 hours .
The terminal half - life for total reduced folates was 6 . 2 hours .
The area under the concentration versus time curves ( AUCs ) for l - leucovorin , d - leucovorin and 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate were 28 . 4 ± 3 . 5 , 956 ± 97 and 129 ± 12 ( mg / min / L ± S . E . ) .
When a higher dose of d , l - leucovorin ( 200 mg / m2 ) was used , similar results were obtained .
The d - isomer persisted in plasma at concentrations greatly exceeding those of the l - isomer .
After intramuscular injection , the mean peak of serum total reduced folates was 436 ng / mL ( range 240 to 725 ) and occurred at 52 minutes .
Similar to IV administration , the initial sharp rise was due to the parent compound .
The mean peak of 5 - formyl - THF was 360 ng / mL and occurred at 28 minutes .
The level of the metabolite 5 - methyl - THF increased subsequently over time until at 1 . 5 hours it represented 50 % of the circulating total folates .
The mean peak of 5 - methyl - THF was 226 ng / mL at 2 . 8 hours .
The terminal half - life of total reduced folates was 6 . 2 hours .
There was no difference of statistical significance between IM and IV administration in the AUC for total reduced folates , 5 formyl - THF , or 5 - methyl - THF .
After oral administration of leucovorin reconstituted with aromatic elixir , the mean peak concentration of serum total reduced folates was 393 ng / mL ( range 160 to 550 ) .
The mean time to peak was 2 . 3 hours and the terminal half - life was 5 . 7 hours .
The major component was the metabolite 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate to which leucovorin is primarily converted in the intestinal mucosa .
The mean peak of 5 - methyl - THF was 367 ng / mL at 2 . 4 hours .
The peak level of the parent compound was 51 ng / mL at 1 . 2 hours .
The AUC of total reduced folates after oral administration of the 25 mg dose was 92 % of the AUC after intravenous administration .
Following oral administration , leucovorin is rapidly absorbed and expands the serum pool of reduced folates .
At a dose of 25 mg , almost 100 % of the l - isomer but only 20 % of the d - isomer is absorbed .
Oral absorption of leucovorin is saturable at doses above 25 mg .
The apparent bioavailability of leucovorin was 97 % for 25 mg , 75 % for 50 mg , and 37 % for 100 mg .
In a randomized clinical study conducted by the Mayo Clinic and the North Central Cancer Treatment Group ( Mayo / NCCTG ) in patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer three treatment regimens were compared : Leucovorin ( LV ) 200 mg / m2 and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) 370 mg / m2 versus LV 20 mg / m2 and 5 - FU 425 mg / m2 versus 5 - FU 500 mg / m2 .
All drugs were administered by slow intravenous infusion daily for 5 days repeated every 28 to 35 days .
Response rates were 26 % ( p = 0 . 04 versus 5 - FU alone ) , 43 % ( p = 0 . 001 versus 5 - FU alone ) and 10 % for the high dose leucovorin , low dose leucovorin and 5 - FU alone groups respectively .
Respective median survival times were 12 . 2 months ( p = 0 . 037 ) , 12 months ( p = 0 . 050 ) , and 7 . 7 months .
The low dose LV regimen gave a statistically significant improvement in weight gain of more than 5 % , relief of symptoms , and improvement in performance status .
The high dose LV regimen gave a statistically significant improvement in performance status and trended toward improvement in weight gain and in relief of symptoms but these were not statistically significant .
In a second Mayo / NCCTG randomized clinical study the 5 - FU alone arm was replaced by a regimen of sequentially administered methotrexate ( MTX ) , 5 - FU , and LV .
Response rates with LV 200 mg / m2 and 5 - FU 370 mg / m2 versus LV 20 mg / m2 and 5 - FU 425 mg / m2 versus sequential MTX and 5 - FU and LV were respectively 31 % ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) , 42 % ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) , and 14 % .
Respective median survival times were 12 . 7 months ( p ≤ 0 . 04 ) , 12 . 7 months ( p ≤ 0 . 01 ) , and 8 . 4 months .
No statistically significant difference in weight gain of more than 5 % or in improvement in performance status was seen between the treatment arms .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Leucovorin calcium rescue is indicated after high dose methotrexate therapy in osteosarcoma .
Leucovorin calcium is also indicated to diminish the toxicity and counteract the effects of impaired methotrexate elimination and of inadvertent overdosages of folic acid antagonists .
Leucovorin calcium is indicated in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to folic acid deficiency when oral therapy is not feasible .
Leucovorin is also indicated for use in combination with 5 - fluorouracil to prolong survival in the palliative treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer .
Leucovorin should not be mixed in the same infusion as 5 - fluorouracil because a precipitate may form .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Leucovorin is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias secondary to the lack of vitamin B12 .
A hematologic remission may occur while neurologic manifestations continue to progress .
WARNINGS In the treatment of accidental overdosages of folic acid antagonists , intravenous leucovorin should be administered as promptly as possible .
As the time interval between antifolate administration ( e . g . , methotrexate ) and leucovorin rescue increases , leucovorin ' s effectiveness in counteracting toxicity decreases .
In the treatment of accidental overdosages of intrathecally administered folic acid antagonists , do not administer leucovorin intrathecally .
LEUCOVORIN MAY BE HARMFUL OR FATAL IF GIVEN INTRATHECALLY .
Monitoring of the serum methotrexate concentration is essential in determining the optimal dose and duration of treatment with leucovorin .
Delayed methotrexate excretion may be caused by a third space fluid accumulation ( i . e . , ascites , pleural effusion ) , renal insufficiency , or inadequate hydration .
Under such circumstances , higher doses of leucovorin or prolonged administration may be indicated .
Doses higher than those recommended for oral use must be given intravenously .
Because of the calcium content of the leucovorin solution , no more than 160 mg of leucovorin should be injected intravenously per minute ( 16 mL of a 10 mg / mL , or 8 mL of a 20 mg / mL solution per minute ) .
Leucovorin enhances the toxicity of 5 - fluorouracil .
When these drugs are administered concurrently in the palliative therapy of advanced colorectal cancer , the dosage of 5 - fluorouracil must be lower than usually administered .
Although the toxicities observed in patients treated with the combination of leucovorin plus 5 - fluorouracil are qualitatively similar to those observed in patients treated with 5 - fluorouracil alone , gastrointestinal toxicities ( particularly stomatitis and diarrhea ) are observed more commonly and may be more severe and of prolonged duration in patients treated with the combination .
In the first Mayo / NCCTG controlled trial , toxicity , primarily gastrointestinal , resulted in 7 % of patients requiring hospitalization when treated with 5 - fluorouracil alone or 5 - fluorouracil in combination with 200 mg / m2 of leucovorin and 20 % when treated with 5 - fluorouracil in combination with 20 mg / m2 of leucovorin .
In the second Mayo / NCCTG trial , hospitalizations related to treatment toxicity also appeared to occur more often in patients treated with the low dose leucovorin / 5 - fluorouracil combination than in patients treated with the high dose combination - 11 % versus 3 % .
Therapy with leucovorin and 5 - fluorouracil must not be initiated or continued in patients who have symptoms of gastrointestinal toxicity of any severity , until those symptoms have completely resolved .
Patients with diarrhea must be monitored with particular care until the diarrhea has resolved , as rapid clinical deterioration leading to death can occur .
In an additional study utilizing higher weekly doses of 5 - fluorouracil and leucovorin , elderly and / or debilitated patients were found to be at greater risk for severe gastrointestinal toxicity .
Seizures and / or syncope have been reported rarely in cancer patients receiving leucovorin , usually in association with fluoropyrimidine administration , and most commonly in those with CNS metastases or other predisposing factors , however , a causal relationship has not been established .
The concomitant use of leucovorin with trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection was associated with increased rates of treatment failure and morbidity in a placebo - controlled study .
PRECAUTIONS General Parenteral administration is preferable to oral dosing if there is a possibility that the patient may vomit and not absorb the leucovorin .
Leucovorin has no effect on non - hematologic toxicities of methotrexate such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and / or metabolite precipitation in the kidney .
Since leucovorin enhances the toxicity of fluorouracil , leucovorin / 5 - fluorouracil combination therapy for advanced colorectal cancer should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of antimetabolite cancer chemotherapy .
Particular care should be taken in the treatment of elderly or debilitated colorectal cancer patients , as these patients may be at increased risk of severe toxicity .
Laboratory Tests Patients being treated with the leucovorin / 5 - fluorouracil combination should have a CBC with differential and platelets prior to each treatment .
During the first two courses a CBC with differential and platelets has to be repeated weekly and thereafter once each cycle at the time of anticipated WBC nadir .
Electrolytes and liver function tests should be performed prior to each treatment for the first three cycles then prior to every other cycle .
Dosage modifications of fluorouracil should be instituted as follows ( Table 1 ) , based on the most severe toxicities : Table 1 : Dosage modifications for fluorouracil Diarrhea and / or Stomatitis WBC / mm3 Nadir Platelets / mm3 Nadir 5 - FU dose Moderate 1 , 000 to 1 , 900 25 to 75 , 000 decrease 20 % Severe < 1 , 000 < 25 , 000 decrease 30 % If no toxicity occurs , the 5 - fluorouracil dose may increase 10 % .
Treatment should be deferred until WBCs are 4 , 000 / mm3 and platelets 130 , 000 / mm3 .
If blood counts do not reach these levels within two weeks , treatment should be discontinued .
Patients should be followed up with physical examination prior to each treatment course and appropriate radiological examination as needed .
Treatment should be discontinued when there is clear evidence of tumor progression .
Drug Interactions Folic acid in large amounts may counteract the antiepileptic effect of phenobarbital , phenytoin and primidone , and increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible pediatric patients .
Preliminary animal and human studies have shown that small quantities of systemically administered leucovorin enter the CSF primarily as 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate and , in humans , remain 1 to 3 orders of magnitude lower than the usual methotrexate concentrations following intrathecal administration .
However , high doses of leucovorin may reduce the efficacy of intrathecally administered methotrexate .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of 5 - fluorouracil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Adequate animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with leucovorin .
It is also not known whether leucovorin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Leucovorin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when leucovorin is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of leucovorin calcium did not show differences in safety or effectiveness between subjects over 65 and younger subjects .
Other clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older patients cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be excreted by the kidney and the risk of toxic reactions to the drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection in this patient population .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization , including anaphylactoid reactions and urticaria , has been reported following the administration of both oral and parenteral leucovorin .
Anaphylactic reactions , including shock , have been reported .
No other adverse reactions have been attributed to the use of leucovorin per se .
Table 2 summarizes significant adverse events occurring in 316 patients treated with the leucovorin / 5 - fluorouracil combinations compared against 70 patients treated with 5 - fluorouracil alone for advanced colorectal carcinoma .
These data are taken from the Mayo / NCCTG large multicenter prospective trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of the combination regimen .
TABLE 2 : PERCENTAGE OF PATIENTS TREATED WITH LEUCOVORIN / FLUOROURACIL FOR ADVANCED COLORECTAL CARCINOMA REPORTING ADVERSE EXPERIENCES OR HOSPITALIZED FOR TOXICITY ( High LV ) / 5 - FU ( N = 155 ) ( Low LV ) / 5 - FU ( N = 161 ) 5 - FU Alone ( N = 70 ) Any ( % ) Grade 3 + ( % ) Any ( % ) Grade 3 + ( % ) Any ( % ) Grade 3 + ( % ) Leukopenia 69 14 83 23 93 48 Thrombocytopenia 8 2 8 1 18 3 Infection 8 1 3 1 7 2 Nausea 74 10 80 9 60 6 Vomiting 46 8 44 9 40 7 Diarrhea 66 18 67 14 43 11 Stomatitis 75 27 84 29 59 16 Constipation 3 0 4 0 1 - Lethargy / Malaise / Fatigue 13 3 12 2 6 3 Alopecia 42 5 43 6 37 7 Dermatitis 21 2 25 1 13 - Anorexia 14 1 22 4 14 - Hospitalization for Toxicity 5 % 15 % 7 % High LV = Leucovorin 200 mg / m2 , Low LV = Leucovorin 20 mg / m2 Any = percentage of patients reporting toxicity of any severity Grade 3 + = percentage of patients reporting toxicity of Grade 3 or higher The leucovorin dose should be adjusted or leucovorin rescue extended based on the following guidelines ( Table 3 ) : TABLE 3 : GUIDELINES FOR LEUCOVORIN DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DO NOT ADMINISTER LEUCOVORIN INTRATHECALLY Clinical Situation Laboratory Findings Leucovorin Dosage and Duration Normal Methotrexate Elimination Serum methotrexate level approximately 10 micro - molar at 24 hours after administration , 1 micromolar at 48 hours , and less than 0 . 2 micromolar at 72 hours .
15 mg PO , IM , or IV q 6 hours for 60 hours ( 10 doses starting at 24 hours after start of methotrexate infusion ) .
Delayed Late Methotrexate Elimination Serum methotrexate level remaining above 0 . 2 micromolar at 72 hours , and more than 0 . 05 micromolar at 96 hours after administration .
Continue 15 mg PO , IM , or IV q 6 hours , until methotrexate level is less than 0 . 05 micromolar .
Delayed Early Methotrexate Elimination and / or Evidence of Acute Renal Injury Serum methotrexate level of 50 micromolar or more at 24 hours , or 5 micromolar or more at 48 hours after administration , OR ; a 100 % or greater increase in serum creatinine level at 24 hours after methotrexate administration ( e . g . , an increase from 0 . 5 mg / dL to a level of 1 mg / dL or more ) .
150 mg IV q 3 hours , until methotrexate level is less than 1 micromolar ; then 15 mg IV q 3 hours until methotrexate level is less than 0 . 05 micromolar .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive amounts of leucovorin may nullify the chemotherapeutic effect of folic acid antagonists .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Advanced Colorectal Cancer Either of the following two regimens is recommended : 1 .
Leucovorin is administered at 200 mg / m2 by slow intravenous injection over a minimum of 3 minutes , followed by 5 - fluorouracil at 370 mg / m2 by intravenous injection .
2 .
Leucovorin is administered at 20 mg / m2 by intravenous injection followed by 5 - fluorouracil at 425 mg / m2 by intravenous injection .
5 - Fluorouracil and leucovorin should be administered separately to avoid the formation of a precipitate .
Treatment is repeated daily for five days .
This five - day treatment course may be repeated at 4 week ( 28 - day ) intervals , for 2 courses and then repeated at 4 to 5 week ( 28 to 35 day ) intervals provided that the patient has completely recovered from the toxic effects of the prior treatment course .
In subsequent treatment course , the dosage of 5 - fluorouracil should be adjusted based on patient tolerance of the prior treatment course .
The daily dosage of 5 - fluorouracil should be reduced by 20 % for patients who experienced moderate hematologic or gastrointestinal toxicity in the prior treatment course , and by 30 % for patients who experienced severe toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
For patients who experienced no toxicity in the prior treatment course , 5 - fluorouracil dosage may be increased by 10 % .
Leucovorin dosages are not adjusted for toxicity .
Leucovorin Rescue After High - Dose Methotrexate Therapy The recommendations for leucovorin rescue are based on a methotrexate dose of 12 to 15 grams / m2 administered by intravenous infusion over 4 hours ( see methotrexate package insert for full prescribing information ) .
Leucovorin rescue at a dose of 15 mg ( approximately 10 mg / m2 ) every 6 hours for 10 doses starts 24 hours after the beginning of the methotrexate infusion .
In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally .
Do not administer leucovorin intrathecally .
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at least once daily .
Leucovorin administration , hydration , and urinary alkalization ( pH of 7 . 0 or greater ) should be continued until the methotrexate level is below 5 x 10 - 8 M ( 0 . 05 micromolar ) .
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to develop reversible renal failure .
In addition to appropriate leucovorin therapy , these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalization , and close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status , until the serum methotrexate level has fallen to below 0 . 05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved .
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal function following methotrexate administration , which are significant but less severe than abnormalities described in the table above .
These abnormalities may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity .
If significant clinical toxicity is observed , leucovorin rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours ( total of 14 doses over 84 hours ) in subsequent courses of therapy .
The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact with methotrexate ( e . g . , medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination or binding to serum albumin ) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities or clinical toxicities are observed .
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage Leucovorin rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is a delayed excretion ( see WARNINGS ) .
Leucovorin 10 mg / m2 should be administered IM , IV , or PO every 6 hours until the serum methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea , or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally .
Do not administer leucovorin intrathecally .
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 hour intervals .
If the 24 hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin should be increased to 100 mg / m2 IV every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M . Hydration ( 3 L / d ) and urinary alkalinization with sodium bicarbonate solution should be employed concomitantly .
The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to maintain the urine pH at 7 . 0 or greater .
Megaloblastic Anemia Due to Folic Acid Deficiency Up to 1 mg daily .
There is no evidence that doses greater than 1 mg / day have greater efficacy than those of 1 mg ; additionally , loss of folate in urine becomes roughly logarithmic as the amount administered exceeds 1 mg .
Because of the calcium content of the leucovorin solution , no more than 160 mg of leucovorin should be injected intravenously per minute ( 16 mL of a 10 mg / mL , or 8 mL of a 20 mg / mL solution per minute ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Leucovorin should not be mixed in the same infusion as 5 - fluorouracil , since this may lead to the formation of a precipitate .
HOW SUPPLIED Leucovorin Calcium Injection USP , 10 mg per mL , is supplied in sterile , single use vials as follows : Product No .
NDC No .
Strength 603150 63323 - 631 - 50 500 mg per 50 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) 50 mL ready - to - use vial , packaged individually .
Store in refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Discard unused portion .
Retain in carton until time of use .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC Lake Zurich , IL 60047 Made in Austria For Product Inquiry : 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451386 A / Revised : April 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg per 50 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) – VIAL LABEL - 1 Vial NDC 63323 - 631 - 50 Leucovorin Calcium Injection , USP 500 mg * per 50 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use 50 mL Single Use Vial Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg per 50 mL ( 10 mg / mL ) – CARTON LABEL - 1 Vial NDC 63323 - 631 - 50 Leucovorin Calcium Injection , USP 500 mg * per 50 mL ( 10 mg per mL ) For Intravenous or Intramuscular Use Rx only 50 mL Single Use Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
