Dear Medical Professional , Per your order , we have compounded Sestamibi as a sterile , freeze - dried preparation in a 10 mL vial .
The characteristics of this preparation are described below .
DESCRIPTION AnazaoHealth ’ s compounded Sestamibi vial is a sterile , non - pyrogenic preparation that consists of a lyophilized mixture of 1 . 5 mg of Copper ( 1 ) tetrafluoroborate , 3 . 9 mg of Sodium Citrate Dihydrate , 1 . 5 mg of L - Cysteine HCL Monohydrate , 30 mg Mannitol and 0 . 112 mg of Tin Chloride .
It is maintained under an inert nitrogen atmosphere .
Prior to lyophilization the pH is 5 . 3 to 5 . 9 .
The pH of the final reconstituted product is 5 . 5 to 6 . 0 .
It contains no antimicrobrial preservative .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When Sestamibi is reconstituted with Tc99m pertechnetate , a complex of Tc99m Sestamibi is formed and is the active ingredient of the reconstituted product .
When administered intravenously , Tc99m Sestamibi shows rapid myocardial uptake and its distribution follows a linear relationship with coronary blood flow .
Tc99m Sestamibi is a lipophilic agent that is taken up by the mitochondria of myocardial cells by passive diffusion and appears to accumulate in viable myocardial tissue .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sestamibi is a diagnostic agent used to assess areas of reversible myocardial ischemia in the presence or absence of infracted myocardium .
Evaluation of myocardial ischemia can be accomplished with rest and cardiovascular stress techniques .
PREPARATION Instructions for the preparation of Tc99m Sestamibi 1 .
Inspect vial to ensure there are no cracks in the glass .
2 .
Reconstitute with 1 - 3 ml of non - pyrogenic , oxidant free Sodium Pertechnetate Tc99m injection .
3 .
Remove equal amount of inert gas from vial and shake vigorously 10 times .
4 .
Place vial in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes beginning when the bath begins boiling again .
• 5 .
Do not allow water to come in contact with aluminum crimp .
• Remove vial from water bath place in lead shield and allow to cool for 15 minutes • Behind appropriate shielding visually inspect the contents of the vial .
Contents should be clear and free of particulate matter .
• pH of the final reconstituted product is 5 . 5 to 6 . 0 .
• This vial contains no preservatives - contents should be used within 6 hours .
• Store shielded vial at 15 - 25 degrees Celsius until use and withdraw dose aseptically .
Instructions for the determination of radiochemical purity in Tc99m Sestamibi • Dry a pre - cut 2 . 5 cm X 7 . 5 cm Baker - Flex Aluminum Oxide coated , plastic TLC # 1 B - F Plateat 100 degrees Celsius for 1 hour and store in a desiccator .
Remove strip just prior to use .
• Apply one drop of Ethanol using a 1 ml syringe with a 22 - 26 guage needle 1 . 5 cm from the bottom of the plate .
Do not allow to dry .
• Put two drops of Tc99m Sestamibi side by side on top to the Ethanol then return plate to desiccator and allow to dry ( typically 15 minutes ) .
• Prepare the TLC take by pouring Ethanol to a depth of 3 - 4 cm then cover the tank and let equilibrate for 10 minutes .
• Develop the plate in the covered TLC tank , in Ethanol , for a distance of 5 cm from the point of application .
• Cut the TLC plate 4 cm from the bottom and measure the Tc99m activity in each piece with appropriate radiation detector .
• Calculate the % Tc99m Sestamibi as : Activity top piece ( front ) / Activity both pieces ( origin + front ) x 100 Storage and Handling • This preparation is recommended to be stored in the refrigerator prior to reconstitution ..
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Figure 1 • [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
