1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 1 Healing of Erosive EsophagitisKAPIDEX is indicated for healing of all grades of erosive esophagitis ( EE ) for up to 8 weeks .
1 . 2 Maintenance of Healed Erosive EsophagitisKAPIDEX is indicated to maintain healing of EE for up to 6 months .
1 . 3 Symptomatic Non - Erosive Gastroesophageal Reflux DiseaseKAPIDEX is indicated for the treatment of heartburn associated with non - erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) for 4 weeks .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Recommended DoseKAPIDEX is available as capsules in 30 mg and 60 mg strengths for adult use .
Directions for use in each indication are summarized in Table 1 .
Table 1 : KAPIDEX Dosing RecommendationsIndication Recommended Dose Frequency Healing of EE 60 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healed EE 30 mg Once daily * Symptomatic Non - Erosive GERD 30 mg Once daily for 4 weeks * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 6 months .
2 . 2 Special PopulationsNo adjustment for KAPIDEX is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
Consider a maximum daily dose of 30 mg for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients or for patients with renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
2 . 3 Important Administration InformationKAPIDEX can be taken without regard to food .
KAPIDEX should be swallowed whole .
• Alternatively , KAPIDEX capsules can be opened and administered as follows : – Open capsule ; – Sprinkle intact granules on one tablespoon of applesauce ; – Swallow immediately .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 30 mg capsules are opaque , blue and gray with TAP and " 30 " imprinted on the capsule .
• 60 mg capsules are opaque , blue with TAP and " 60 " imprinted on the capsule .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS KAPIDEX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis have been reported with KAPIDEX use [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Gastric MalignancySymptomatic response with KAPIDEX does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials ExperienceThe safety of KAPIDEX was evaluated in 4548 patients in controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies , including 863 patients treated for at least 6 months and 203 patients treated for one year .
Patients ranged in age from 18 to 90 years ( median age 48 years ) , with 54 % female , 85 % Caucasian , 8 % Black , 4 % Asian , and 3 % other races .
Six randomized controlled clinical trials were conducted for the treatment of EE , maintenance of healed EE , and symptomatic GERD , which included 896 patients on placebo , 455 patients on KAPIDEX 30 mg , 2218 patients on KAPIDEX 60 mg , and 1363 patients on lansoprazole 30 mg once daily .
As clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Most Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) that occurred at a higher incidence for KAPIDEX than placebo in the controlled studies are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions in Controlled Studies Placebo KAPIDEX 30 mg KAPIDEX 60 mg KAPIDEX Total Lansoprazole 30 mg Adverse Reaction ( N = 896 ) % ( N = 455 ) % ( N = 2218 ) % ( N = 2621 ) % ( N = 1363 ) % Diarrhea 2 . 9 5 . 1 4 . 7 4 . 8 3 . 2 Abdominal Pain 3 . 5 3 . 5 4 . 0 4 . 0 2 . 6 Nausea 2 . 6 3 . 3 2 . 8 2 . 9 1 . 8 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 0 . 8 2 . 9 1 . 7 1 . 9 0 . 8 Vomiting 0 . 8 2 . 2 1 . 4 1 . 6 1 . 1 Flatulence 0 . 6 2 . 6 1 . 4 1 . 6 1 . 2 Adverse Reactions Resulting in Discontinuation In controlled clinical studies , the most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation from KAPIDEX therapy was diarrhea ( 0 . 7 % ) .
Other Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions that were reported in controlled studies at an incidence of less than 2 % are listed below by body system : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : anemia , lymphadenopathy Cardiac Disorders : angina , arrhythmia , bradycardia , chest pain , edema , myocardial infarction , palpitation , tachycardia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : ear pain , tinnitus , vertigo Endocrine Disorders : goiter Eye Disorders : eye irritation , eye swelling Gastrointestinal Disorders : abdominal discomfort , abdominal tenderness , abnormal feces , anal discomfort , Barrett ' s esophagus , bezoar , bowel sounds abnormal , breath odor , colitis microscopic , colonic polyp , constipation , dry mouth , duodenitis , dyspepsia , dysphagia , enteritis , eructation , esophagitis , gastric polyp , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal disorders , gastrointestinal hypermotility disorders , GERD , GI ulcers and perforation , hematemesis , hematochezia , hemorrhoids , impaired gastric emptying , irritable bowel syndrome , mucus stools , nausea and vomiting , oral mucosal blistering , painful defecation , proctitis , paresthesia oral , rectal hemorrhage General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : adverse drug reaction , asthenia , chest pain , chills , feeling abnormal , inflammation , mucosal inflammation , nodule , pain , pyrexia Hepatobiliary Disorders : biliary colic , cholelithiasis , hepatomegaly Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity Infections and Infestations : candida infections , influenza , nasopharyngitis , oral herpes , pharyngitis , sinusitis , viral infection , vulvo - vaginal infection Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications : falls , fractures , joint sprains , overdose , procedural pain , sunburn Laboratory Investigations : ALP increased , ALT increased , AST increased , bilirubin decreased / increased , blood creatinine increased , blood gastrin increased , blood glucose increased , blood potassium increased , liver function test abnormal , platelet count decreased , total protein increased , weight increase Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : appetite changes , hypercalcemia , hypokalemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthralgia , arthritis , muscle cramps , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia Nervous System Disorders : altered taste , convulsion , dizziness , headaches , migraine , memory impairment , paresthesia , psychomotor hyperactivity , tremor , trigeminal neuralgia Psychiatric Disorders : abnormal dreams , anxiety , depression , insomnia , libido changes Renal and Urinary Disorders : dysuria , micturition urgency Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : dysmenorrhea , dyspareunia , menorrhagia , menstrual disorder Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : aspiration , asthma , bronchitis , cough , dyspnoea , hiccups , hyperventilation , respiratory tract congestion , sore throat Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : acne , dermatitis , erythema , pruritis , rash , skin lesion , urticaria Vascular Disorders : deep vein thrombosis , hot flush , hypertension Additional adverse reactions that were reported in a long - term uncontrolled study and were considered related to KAPIDEX by the treating physician included : anaphylaxis , auditory hallucination , B - cell lymphoma , central obesity , cholecystitis acute , decreased hemoglobin , dehydration , diabetes mellitus , dysphonia , epistaxis , folliculitis , gastrointestinal pain , gout , herpes zoster , hyperglycemia , hyperlipidemia , hypothyroidism , increased neutrophils , MCHC decrease , neutropenia , oral soft tissue disorder , rectal tenesmus , restless legs syndrome , somnolence , thrombocythemia , tonsillitis .
Other adverse reactions not observed with KAPIDEX , but occurring with the racemate lansoprazole can be found in the lansoprazole package insert , ADVERSE REACTIONS section .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs with pH - Dependent Absorption PharmacokineticsKAPIDEX causes inhibition of gastric acid secretion .
KAPIDEX is likely to substantially decrease the systemic concentrations of the HIV protease inhibitor atazanavir , which is dependent upon the presence of gastric acid for absorption , and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect of atazanavir and the development of HIV resistance .
Therefore , KAPIDEX should not be co - administered with atazanavir .
It is theoretically possible that KAPIDEX may interfere with the absorption of other drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of oral bioavailability ( e . g . , ampicillin esters , digoxin , iron salts , ketoconazole ) .
7 . 2 WarfarinCo - administration of KAPIDEX 90 mg and warfarin 25 mg did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin or INR [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 6 ) ] .
However , there have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs and warfarin concomitantly .
Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death .
Patients treated with KAPIDEX and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 PregnancyTeratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with dexlansoprazole in pregnant women .
There were no adverse fetal effects in animal reproduction studies of dexlansoprazole in rabbits .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , KAPIDEX should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
A reproduction study conducted in rabbits at oral dexlansoprazole doses up to 30 mg per kg per day ( approximately 9 - fold the maximum recommended human dexlansoprazole dose [ 60 mg ] based on body surface area [ BSA ] ) revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to dexlansoprazole .
In addition , reproduction studies performed in pregnant rats with oral lansoprazole at doses up to 150 mg per kg per day ( 40 times the recommended human dose based on BSA ) and in pregnant rabbits at oral lansoprazole doses up to 30 mg per kg per day ( 16 times the recommended human dose based on BSA ) revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to lansoprazole .
8 . 3 Nursing MothersIt is not known whether dexlansoprazole is excreted in human milk .
However , lansoprazole and its metabolites are present in rat milk following the administration of lansoprazole .
As many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for lansoprazole in rat carcinogenicity studies [ see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ( 13 . 1 ) ] , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness of KAPIDEX in pediatric patients ( less than 18 years of age ) have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric UseIn clinical studies of KAPIDEX , 11 % of patients were aged 65 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified significant differences in responses between geriatric and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal ImpairmentNo dosage adjustment of KAPIDEX is necessary in patients with renal impairment .
The pharmacokinetics of dexlansoprazole in patients with renal impairment are not expected to be altered since dexlansoprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites , and no parent drug is recovered in the urine following an oral dose of dexlansoprazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic ImpairmentNo dosage adjustment for KAPIDEX is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
KAPIDEX 30 mg should be considered for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of significant overdose of KAPIDEX .
Multiple doses of KAPIDEX 120 mg and a single dose of KAPIDEX 300 mg did not result in death or other severe adverse events .
Dexlansoprazole is not expected to be removed from the circulation by hemodialysis .
If an overdose occurs , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in KAPIDEX ( dexlansoprazole ) delayed release capsules is ( + ) - 2 - [ ( R ) - { [ 3 - methyl - 4 - ( 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroethoxy ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] methyl } sulfinyl ] - 1 H - benzimidazole , a compound that inhibits gastric acid secretion .
Dexlansoprazole is the R - enantiomer of lansoprazole ( a racemic mixture of the R - and S - enantiomers ) .
Its empirical formula is : C16H14F3N3O2S , with a molecular weight of 369 . 36 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dexlansoprazole is a white to nearly white crystalline powder which melts with decomposition at 140 ° C . Dexlansoprazole is freely soluble in dimethylformamide , methanol , dichloromethane , ethanol , and ethyl acetate ; and soluble in acetonitrile ; slightly soluble in ether ; and very slightly soluble in water ; and practically insoluble in hexane .
Dexlansoprazole is stable when exposed to light .
Dexlansoprazole is more stable in neutral and alkaline conditions than acidic conditions .
KAPIDEX is supplied as a dual delayed release formulation in capsules for oral administration .
The capsules contain dexlansoprazole in a mixture of two types of enteric - coated granules with different pH - dependent dissolution profiles [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
KAPIDEX is available in two dosage strengths : 30 mg and 60 mg , per capsule .
Each capsule contains enteric - coated granules consisting of dexlansoprazole ( active ingredient ) and the following inactive ingredients : sugar spheres , magnesium carbonate , sucrose , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , titanium dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose 2910 , talc , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol 8000 , triethyl citrate , polysorbate 80 , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
The components of the capsule shell include the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose , carrageenan and potassium chloride .
Based on the capsule shell color , blue contains FD & C Blue No . 2 and aluminum lake ; gray contains ferric oxide and aluminum lake ; and both contain titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of ActionDexlansoprazole is a PPI that suppresses gastric acid secretion by specific inhibition of the ( H + , K + ) - ATPase in the gastric parietal cell .
By acting specifically on the proton pump , dexlansoprazole blocks the final step of acid production .
12 . 2 PharmacodynamicsAntisecretory Activity The effects of KAPIDEX 60 mg ( n = 20 ) or lansoprazole 30 mg ( n = 23 ) once daily for five days on 24 - hour intragastric pH were assessed in healthy subjects in a multiple - dose crossover study .
The results are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Effect on 24 - hour Intragastric pH on Day 5 After Administration of KAPIDEX or LansoprazoleKAPIDEX 60 mg Lansoprazole 30 mg Mean Intragastric pH 4 . 55 4 . 13 % Time Intragastric pH > 4 ( hours ) 71 ( 17 hours ) 60 ( 14 hours ) Serum Gastrin Effects The effect of KAPIDEX on serum gastrin concentrations was evaluated in approximately 3460 patients in clinical trials up to 8 weeks and in 1023 patients for up to 6 to 12 months .
The mean fasting gastrin concentrations increased from baseline during treatment with KAPIDEX 30 mg and 60 mg doses .
In patients treated for more than 6 months , mean serum gastrin levels increased during approximately the first 3 months of treatment and were stable for the remainder of treatment .
Mean serum gastrin levels returned to pre - treatment levels within one month of discontinuation of treatment .
Enterochromaffin - Like Cell ( ECL ) Effects There were no reports of ECL cell hyperplasia in gastric biopsy specimens obtained from 653 patients treated with KAPIDEX 30 mg , 60 mg or 90 mg for up to 12 months .
During lifetime exposure of rats dosed daily with up to 150 mg per kg per day of lansoprazole , marked hypergastrinemia was observed followed by ECL cell proliferation and formation of carcinoid tumors , especially in female rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Effect on Cardiac Repolarization A study was conducted to assess the potential of KAPIDEX to prolong the QT / QTc interval in healthy adult subjects .
KAPIDEX doses of 90 mg or 300 mg did not delay cardiac repolarization compared to placebo .
The positive control ( moxifloxacin ) produced statistically significantly greater mean maximum and time - averaged QT / QTc intervals compared to placebo .
12 . 3 PharmacokineticsThe dual delayed release formulation of KAPIDEX results in a dexlansoprazole plasma concentration - time profile with two distinct peaks ; the first peak occurs 1 to 2 hours after administration , followed by a second peak within 4 to 5 hours ( see Figure 1 ) .
Dexlansoprazole is eliminated with a half - life of approximately 1 to 2 hours in healthy subjects and in patients with symptomatic GERD .
No accumulation of dexlansoprazole occurs after multiple , once daily doses of KAPIDEX 30 mg or 60 mg , although mean AUCt and Cmax values of dexlansoprazole were slightly higher ( less than 10 % ) on day 5 than on day 1 .
Figure 1 : Mean Plasma Dexlansoprazole Concentration – Time Profile Following Oral Administration of 30 or 60 mg KAPIDEX Once Daily for 5 Days in Healthy Subjects [ MULTIMEDIA ] The pharmacokinetics of dexlansoprazole are highly variable , with percent coefficient of variation ( CV % ) values for Cmax , AUC , and CL / F of greater than 30 % ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Mean ( CV % ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Subjects on Day 5 After Administration of KAPIDEXDose ( mg ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUC24 ( ng ∙ h / mL ) CL / F ( L / h ) 30 658 ( 40 % ) ( N = 44 ) 3275 ( 47 % ) ( N = 43 ) 11 . 4 ( 48 % ) ( N = 43 ) 60 1397 ( 51 % ) ( N = 79 ) 6529 ( 60 % ) ( N = 73 ) 11 . 6 ( 46 % ) ( N = 41 ) Absorption After oral administration of KAPIDEX 30 mg or 60 mg to healthy subjects and symptomatic GERD patients , mean Cmax and AUC values of dexlansoprazole increased approximately dose proportionally ( see Figure 1 ) .
Distribution Plasma protein binding of dexlansoprazole ranged from 96 . 1 % to 98 . 8 % in healthy subjects and was independent of concentration from 0 . 01 to 20 mcg per mL .
The apparent volume of distribution ( Vz / F ) after multiple doses in symptomatic GERD patients was 40 . 3 L . Metabolism Dexlansoprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by oxidation , reduction , and subsequent formation of sulfate , glucuronide and glutathione conjugates to inactive metabolites .
Oxidative metabolites are formed by the cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzyme system including hydroxylation mainly by CYP2C19 , and oxidation to the sulfone by CYP3A4 .
CYP2C19 is a polymorphic liver enzyme which exhibits three phenotypes in the metabolism of CYP2C19 substrates ; extensive metabolizers ( * 1 / * 1 ) , intermediate metabolizers ( * 1 / mutant ) and poor metabolizers ( mutant / mutant ) .
Dexlansoprazole is the major circulating component in plasma regardless of CYP2C19 metabolizer status .
In CYP2C19 intermediate and extensive metabolizers , the major plasma metabolites are 5 - hydroxy dexlansoprazole and its glucuronide conjugate , while in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers dexlansoprazole sulfone is the major plasma metabolite .
Elimination Following the administration of KAPIDEX , no unchanged dexlansoprazole is excreted in urine .
Following the administration of [ 14 C ] dexlansoprazole to 6 healthy male subjects , approximately 50 . 7 % ( standard deviation ( SD ) : 9 . 0 % ) of the administered radioactivity was excreted in urine and 47 . 6 % ( SD : 7 . 3 % ) in the feces .
Apparent clearance ( CL / F ) in healthy subjects was 11 . 4 to 11 . 6 L / h , respectively , after 5 - days of 30 or 60 mg once daily administration .
Effect of CYP2C19 Polymorphism on Systemic Exposure of Dexlansoprazole Systemic exposure of dexlansoprazole is generally higher in intermediate and poor metabolizers .
In male Japanese subjects who received a single dose of KAPIDEX 30 mg or 60 mg ( N = 2 to 6 subjects / group ) , mean dexlansoprazole Cmax and AUC values were up to 2 times higher in intermediate compared to extensive metabolizers ; in poor metabolizers , mean Cmax was up to 4 times higher and mean AUC was up to 12 times higher compared to extensive metabolizers .
Though such study was not conducted in Caucasians and African Americans , it is expected dexlansoprazole exposure in these races will be affected by CYP2C19 phenotypes as well .
12 . 4 Effect of Food on Pharmacokinetics and PharmacodynamicsIn food - effect studies in healthy subjects receiving KAPIDEX under various fed conditions compared to fasting , increases in Cmax ranged from 12 % to 55 % , increases in AUC ranged from 9 % to 37 % , and tmax varied ( ranging from a decrease of 0 . 7 hours to an increase of 3 hours ) .
No significant differences in mean intragastric pH were observed between fasted and various fed conditions .
However , the percentage of time intragastric pH exceeded 4 over the 24 - hour dosing interval decreased slightly when KAPIDEX was administered after a meal ( 57 % ) relative to fasting ( 64 % ) , primarily due to a decreased response in intragastric pH during the first 4 hours after dosing .
Because of this , while KAPIDEX can be taken without regard to food , some patients may benefit from administering the dose prior to a meal if post - meal symptoms do not resolve under post - fed conditions .
12 . 5 Special PopulationsPediatric Use The pharmacokinetics of dexlansoprazole in patients under the age of 18 years have not been studied .
Geriatric Use The terminal elimination half - life of dexlansoprazole is significantly increased in geriatric subjects compared to younger subjects ( 2 . 23 and 1 . 5 hours , respectively ) ; this difference is not clinically relevant .
Dexlansoprazole exhibited higher systemic exposure ( AUC ) in geriatric subjects ( 34 . 5 % higher ) than younger subjects .
No dosage adjustment is needed in geriatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Impairment Dexlansoprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites , and no parent drug is recovered in the urine following an oral dose of dexlansoprazole .
Therefore , the pharmacokinetics of dexlansoprazole are not expected to be altered in patients with renal impairment , and no studies were conducted in subjects with renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
In addition , the pharmacokinetics of lansoprazole were studied in patients with mild , moderate or severe renal impairment ; results demonstrated no need for a dose adjustment for this patient population .
Hepatic Impairment In a study of 12 patients with moderately impaired hepatic function who received a single oral dose of KAPIDEX 60 mg , plasma exposure ( AUC ) of bound and unbound dexlansoprazole in the hepatic impairment group was approximately 2 times greater compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
This difference in exposure was not due to a difference in protein binding between the two liver function groups .
No adjustment for KAPIDEX is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
KAPIDEX 30 mg should be considered for patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender In a study of 12 male and 12 female healthy subjects who received a single oral dose of KAPIDEX 60 mg , females had higher systemic exposure ( AUC ) ( 42 . 8 % higher ) than males .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients based on gender .
12 . 6 Drug - Drug InteractionsWarfarin In a study of 20 healthy subjects , co - administration of KAPIDEX 90 mg once daily for 11 days with a single 25 mg oral dose of warfarin on day 6 did not result in any significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of warfarin or INR compared to administration of warfarin with placebo .
However , there have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs and warfarin concomitantly [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cytochrome P 450 Interactions Dexlansoprazole is metabolized , in part , by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In vitro studies have shown that KAPIDEX is not likely to inhibit CYP isoforms 1A1 , 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 or 3A4 .
As such , no clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected .
Furthermore , clinical drug - drug interaction studies in mainly CYP2C19 extensive and intermediate metabolizers have shown that KAPIDEX does not affect the pharmacokinetics of diazepam , phenytoin , or theophylline .
The subjects ' CYP1A2 genotypes in the drug - drug interaction study with theophylline were not determined .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityThe carcinogenic potential of dexlansoprazole was assessed using lansoprazole studies .
In two 24 - month carcinogenicity studies , Sprague - Dawley rats were treated orally with lansoprazole at doses of 5 to 150 mg per kg per day , about 1 to 40 times the exposure on a body surface ( mg / m2 ) basis of a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 BSA ) given the recommended human dose of lansoprazole ( 30 mg per day ) .
Lansoprazole produced dose - related gastric ECL cell hyperplasia and ECL cell carcinoids in both male and female rats [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
In rats , lansoprazole also increased the incidence of intestinal metaplasia of the gastric epithelium in both sexes .
In male rats , lansoprazole produced a dose - related increase of testicular interstitial cell adenomas .
The incidence of these adenomas in rats receiving doses of 15 to 150 mg per kg per day ( 4 to 40 times the recommended lansoprazole human dose based on BSA ) exceeded the low background incidence ( range = 1 . 4 to 10 % ) for this strain of rat .
Testicular interstitial cell adenoma also occurred in 1 of 30 rats treated with 50 mg lansoprazole per kg per day ( 13 times the recommended lansoprazole human dose based on BSA ) in a 1 - year toxicity study .
In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , CD - 1 mice were treated orally with lansoprazole doses of 15 mg to 600 mg per kg per day , 2 to 80 times the recommended human dose based on BSA .
Lansoprazole produced a dose - related increased incidence of gastric ECL cell hyperplasia .
It also produced an increased incidence of liver tumors ( hepatocellular adenoma plus carcinoma ) .
The tumor incidences in male mice treated with 300 mg and 600 mg lansoprazole per kg per day ( 40 to 80 times the recommended lansoprazole human dose based on BSA ) and female mice treated with 150 mg to 600 mg lansoprazole per kg per day ( 20 to 80 times the recommended human dose based on BSA ) exceeded the ranges of background incidences in historical controls for this strain of mice .
Lansoprazole treatment produced adenoma of rete testis in male mice receiving 75 to 600 mg per kg per day ( 10 to 80 times the recommended lansoprazole human dose based on BSA ) .
A 26 - week p53 ( + / - ) transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study of lansoprazole was not positive .
Lansoprazole was negative in the Ames test , the ex vivo rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test , the in vivo mouse micronucleus test and the rat bone marrow cell chromosomal aberration test .
Lansoprazole was positive in in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration tests .
Dexlansoprazole was positive in the Ames test and in the in vitro chromosome aberration test using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Dexlansoprazole was negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
The potential effects of dexlansoprazole on fertility and reproductive performance were assessed using lansoprazole studies .
Lansoprazole at oral doses up to 150 mg per kg per day ( 40 times the recommended lansoprazole human dose based on BSA ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Healing of Erosive EsophagitisTwo multi - center , double - blind , active - controlled , randomized , 8 - week studies were conducted in patients with endoscopically confirmed EE .
Severity of the disease was classified based on the Los Angeles Classification Grading System ( Grades A - D ) .
Patients were randomized to one of the following three treatment groups : KAPIDEX 60 mg daily , KAPIDEX 90 mg daily or lansoprazole 30 mg daily .
Patients who were H pylori positive or who had Barrett ' s Esophagus and / or definite dysplastic changes at baseline were excluded from these studies .
A total of 4092 patients were enrolled and ranged in age from 18 to 90 years ( median age 48 years ) with 54 % male .
Race was distributed as follows : 87 % Caucasian , 5 % Black and 8 % other .
Based on the Los Angeles Classification , 71 % of patients had mild EE ( Grades A and B ) and 29 % of patients had moderate to severe EE ( Grades C and D ) before treatment .
The studies were designed to test non - inferiority .
If non - inferiority was demonstrated then superiority would be tested .
Although non - inferiority was demonstrated in both studies , the finding of superiority in one study was not replicated in the other .
The proportion of patients with healed EE at week 4 or 8 is presented below in Table 5 .
Table 5 : EE Healing Rates * : All GradesStudy Number of Patients ( N ) † Treatment Group ( daily ) Week 4 % Healed Week 8 ‡ % Healed ( 95 % CI ) for the Treatment Difference ( KAPIDEX – Lansoprazole ) by Week 8 1 657 KAPIDEX 60 mg 70 87 ( - 1 . 5 , 6 . 1 ) § 648 Lansoprazole 30 mg 65 85 2 639 KAPIDEX 60 mg 66 85 ( 2 . 2 , 10 . 5 ) § 656 Lansoprazole 30 mg 65 79 CI = Confidence interval * Based on crude rate estimates , patients who did not have endoscopically documented healed EE and prematurely discontinued were considered not healed .
† Patients with at least one post baseline endoscopy ‡ Primary efficacy endpoint § Demonstrated non - inferiority to lansoprazole KAPIDEX 90 mg was studied and did not provide additional clinical benefit over KAPIDEX 60 mg .
14 . 2 Maintenance of Healed Erosive EsophagitisA multi - center , double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized study was conducted in patients who successfully completed an EE study and showed endoscopically confirmed healed EE .
Maintenance of healing and symptom resolution over a six - month period were evaluated with KAPIDEX 30 mg or 60 mg once daily compared to placebo .
A total of 445 patients were enrolled and ranged in age from 18 to 85 years ( median age 49 years ) , with 52 % female .
Race was distributed as follows : 90 % Caucasian , 5 % Black and 5 % other .
Sixty - six percent of patients treated with 30 mg of KAPIDEX remained healed over the six - month time period as confirmed by endoscopy ( see Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Maintenance Rates * of Healed EE at Month 6 Number of Patients ( N ) † Treatment Group ( daily ) Maintenance Rate ( % ) 125 KAPIDEX 30 mg 66 . 4 ‡ 119 Placebo 14 . 3 * Based on crude rate estimates , patients who did not have endoscopically documented relapse and prematurely discontinued were considered to have relapsed .
† Patients with at least one post baseline endoscopy ‡ Statistically significant vs placebo KAPIDEX 60 mg was studied and did not provide additional clinical benefit over KAPIDEX 30 mg .
KAPIDEX 30 mg demonstrated a higher median percent of 24 - hour heartburn - free days compared to placebo over the 6 - month treatment period .
14 . 3 Symptomatic Non - Erosive GERDA multi - center , double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , 4 - week study was conducted in patients with a diagnosis of symptomatic non - erosive GERD made primarily by presentation of symptoms .
These patients who identified heartburn as their primary symptom , had a history of heartburn for 6 months or longer , had heartburn on at least 4 of 7 days immediately prior to randomization and had no esophageal erosions as confirmed by endoscopy .
However , patients with symptoms which were not acid - related may not have been excluded using these inclusion criteria .
Patients were randomized to one of the following treatment groups : KAPIDEX 30 mg daily , 60 mg daily , or placebo .
A total of 947 patients were enrolled and ranged in age from 18 to 86 years ( median age 48 years ) with 71 % female .
Race was distributed as follows : 82 % Caucasian , 14 % Black and 4 % other .
KAPIDEX 30 mg provided statistically significantly greater percent of days with heartburn - free 24 - hour periods over placebo as assessed by daily diary over 4 weeks ( see Table 7 ) .
KAPIDEX 60 mg was studied and provided no additional clinical benefit over KAPIDEX 30 mg .
Table 7 : Median Percentages of 24 - Hour Heartburn - Free Periods During the 4 Week Treatment Period of the Symptomatic Non - Erosive GERD StudyN Treatment Group ( daily ) Heartburn - Free 24 - hour Periods ( % ) 312 KAPIDEX 30 mg 54 . 9 * 310 Placebo 18 . 5 * Statistically significant vs placebo A higher percentage of patients on KAPIDEX 30 mg had heartburn - free 24 - hour periods compared to placebo as early as the first three days of treatment and this was sustained throughout the treatment period ( percentage of patients on Day 3 : KAPIDEX 38 % versus placebo 15 % ; on Day 28 : KAPIDEX 63 % versus placebo 40 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING KAPIDEX delayed release capsules , 30 mg , are opaque , blue and gray with TAP and " 30 " imprinted on the capsule and supplied as : NDC Number Size 54868 - 5998 - 0 Bottle of 30 54868 - 5998 - 1 Bottle of 90 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 2 ) ] 17 . 1 Information for PatientsTo ensure the safe and effective use of KAPIDEX , this information and instructions provided in the FDA - approved patient labeling should be discussed with the patient .
Inform patients of the following : KAPIDEX is available as a delayed release capsule .
KAPIDEX may be taken without regard to food .
KAPIDEX should be swallowed whole .
• Alternatively , KAPIDEX capsules can be opened and administered as follows : – Open capsule ; – Sprinkle intact granules on one tablespoon of applesauce ; – Swallow immediately .
17 . 2 FDA - Approved Patient LabelingPatient Labeling for KAPIDEX ( cap - i - decks ) ( dexlansoprazole ) delayed release capsules Please read this information carefully before you start taking KAPIDEX .
Also , read this information each time you refill your prescription , in case anything has changed .
Remember , this information does not take the place of talking with your doctor .
What is KAPIDEX ?
KAPIDEX is a medicine called a proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) .
Take it for as long as your doctor tells you .
KAPIDEX reduces the amount of acid in your stomach .
KAPIDEX is used in adults : • To treat heartburn related to gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) .
• To heal acid - related damage to the lining of the esophagus ( called erosive esophagitis or EE ) .
• To stop erosive esophagitis from coming back .
What is GERD and EE ?
GERD happens when acid from your stomach enters the tube ( esophagus ) that connects your mouth to your stomach .
This may cause a burning feeling in your chest or throat , sour taste or burping .
In some cases , acid can damage the lining of your esophagus .
This damage is called erosive esophagitis or EE .
Who Should Not Take KAPIDEX ?
The active ingredient in KAPIDEX is dexlansoprazole .
You should not take KAPIDEX if you are allergic to KAPIDEX or any of its ingredients [ see What is in KAPIDEX ? ]
.
What Should I Tell My Doctor Before and While I Take KAPIDEX ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions .
Be sure to tell your doctor if you : • Are pregnant or could be pregnant • Are breastfeeding • Have liver problems Tell your doctor about all your medicines , including any prescription and any non - prescription medicines , herbal remedies , and vitamins .
KAPIDEX and certain other medicines can affect each other .
Before taking KAPIDEX , tell your doctor if you are taking : • ampicillin • atazanavir • digoxin • iron • ketoconazole • warfarin • tacrolimus How Should I Take KAPIDEX ?
Take this medicine exactly as it was prescribed and for the full length of time .
You can take KAPIDEX with or without food .
KAPIDEX should be swallowed whole .
KAPIDEX capsules can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a tablespoon of applesauce .
Swallow immediately .
If you miss a dose of KAPIDEX , take your KAPIDEX as soon as you remember .
If you think you took too much medicine , call your doctor .
What Are the Possible Side Effects of KAPIDEX ?
The most common side effects of KAPIDEX were diarrhea , stomach pain , nausea , common cold , vomiting and gas .
There are other less common side effects .
If you have any symptoms , be sure to tell your doctor about them .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the above side effects or any other side effects that worry you while using KAPIDEX .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What Else Should I Know When Taking KAPIDEX ?
KAPIDEX may stop your pain and other acid related symptoms , but you could still have serious stomach problems .
General Information Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions other than those listed in the patient labeling .
Do not give KAPIDEX to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
Ask your doctor about any concerns you may have or if you want more information about KAPIDEX .
Keep KAPIDEX and all other medicines out of the reach of children .
Store KAPIDEX at room temperature .
For full product information , call 1 - 866 - 985 - 2743 .
What is in KAPIDEX ?
Active ingredient : dexlansoprazole .
Inactive ingredients : sugar spheres , magnesium carbonate , sucrose , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , titanium dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose 2910 , talc , methacrylic acid copolymers , polyethylene glycol 8000 , triethyl citrate , polysorbate 80 , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
The capsule shell is made of hypromellose , carrageenan and potassium chloride .
Based on the capsule shell color , blue contains FD & C Blue No . 2 and aluminum lake ; gray contains ferric oxide and aluminum lake ; and both contain titanium dioxide .
Distributed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
Deerfield , IL 60015 U . S . Patent Nos .
- 5 , 045 , 321 ; 5 , 093 , 132 ; 5 , 433 , 959 ; 6 , 462 , 058 ; 6 , 664 , 276 ; 6 , 939 , 971 ; and 7 , 285 , 668 .
KAPIDEX is a trademark of Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America , Inc . and used under license by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
All other trademark names are the property of their respective owners .
© 2009 Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
KAP0809 R3 August 2009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL KAPIDEX dexlansoprazole delayed release capsules Rx only 30 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
