CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY HydrOXYzine hydrochloride is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate or the benzodiazepines .
HydrOXYzine is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydrOXYzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
HydrOXYzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydrOXYzine ’ s clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia , hydrOXYzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
HydrOXYzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydrOXYzine as an antianxiety agent for long term use , that is more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine hydrochloride products , and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride .
HydrOXYzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydrOXYzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
HydrOXYzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS : Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydrOXYzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydrOXYzine their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydrOXYzine .
Patients should also be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effects of alcohol may be increased .
Geriatric Use : A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydrOXYzine included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydrOXYzine has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydrOXYzine and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydrOXYzine hydrochloride are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Anticholinergic : Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System : Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of dose .
Involuntary motor activity including rare instances of tremor and convulsions have been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
In post - marketing experience , the following additional undesirable effects have been reported : Body as a Whole : Allergic reaction .
Nervous System : Headache .
Psychiatric : Hallucination .
Skin and Appendages : Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is associated with fixed drug eruptions in postmarketing reports .
OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of hydrOXYzine overdosage is hypersedation .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and levarterenol or metaraminol .
Do not use epinephrine as hydrOXYzine counteracts its pressor action .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydrOXYzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydrOXYzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : Adults , 50 - 100 mg q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; children over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses and in histamine - mediated pruritus : adults , 25 mg t . i . d . or q . i . d . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; children over 6 years , 50 - 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 - 100 mg for adults and 0 . 6 mg / kg of body weight in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all potent medication , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED HydrOXYzine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP , 10 mg - Round , white , film - coated tablet , debossed “ H / 105 ” , supplied in bottles of 100 , 500 , and 1000 .
Bottles of 100 NDC 23155 - 105 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 23155 - 105 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 23155 - 105 - 10 25 mg - Round , white , film - coated tablet , debossed “ H / 106 ” , supplied in bottles of 100 , 500 , and 1000 .
Bottles of 100 NDC 23155 - 106 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 23155 - 106 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 23155 - 106 - 10 50 mg - Round , white , film - coated tablet , debossed “ H / 107 ” , supplied in bottles of 100 , 500 , and 1000 .
Bottles of 100 NDC 23155 - 107 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 23155 - 107 - 05 Bottles of 1000 NDC 23155 - 107 - 10 Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 1 - 866 - 901 - DRUG ( 3784 ) Iss . 06 / 14 DESCRIPTION HydrOXYzine hydrochloride has the chemical name of 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 1 - piperazinyl ] ethoxy ] ethanol dihydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HydrOXYzine hydrochloride occurs as a white , odorless powder which is very soluble in water .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 10 mg , 25 mg or 50 mg hydrOXYzine HCl .
Inactive ingredients include : lactose monohydrate , colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel HydrOXYzine HCl Tablets , USP 10 mg 15 Tablets NDC 10544 - 043 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel HydrOXYzine HCl Tablets , USP 25 mg 20 Tablets NDC 10544 - 017 - 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
