DESCRIPTION Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is a sterile , topical , nonsteroidal , anti - inflammatory product for ophthalmic use .
Diclofenac sodium is designated chemically as 2 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino ] benzeneacetic acid , monosodium salt , with an empirical formula of C14H10Cl2NO2Na .
The structural formula of diclofenac sodium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is available as a sterile solution which contains diclofenac sodium 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg / mL ) .
Inactive Ingredients : POLYQUAD ® polyquaternium - 1 , 0 . 05 mg / mL , as preservative , tocophersolan , boric acid , mannitol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH to 6 . 7 ) and purified water .
DM - 00 Diclofenac sodium is a faintly yellow - white to light - beige , slightly hygroscopic crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in methanol , sparingly soluble in water , very slightly soluble in acetonitrile , and insoluble in chloroform and in 0 . 1 N hydrochloric acid .
Its molecular weight is 318 . 14 .
Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is an iso - osmotic solution with an osmolality of about 300 mOsmol / 1000 g .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Animal Studies Prostaglandins have been shown in many animal models to be mediators of certain kinds of intraocular inflammation .
In studies performed in animal eyes , prostaglandins have been shown to produce disruption of the blood - aqueous humor barrier , vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , leukocytosis , and increased intraocular pressure .
Pharmacodynamics Diclofenac sodium is one of a series of phenylacetic acids that have demonstrated anti - inflammatory and analgesic properties in pharmacological studies .
It is thought to inhibit the enzyme cyclooxygenase , which is essential in the biosynthesis of prostaglandins .
Pharmacokinetics Results from a bioavailability study of another formulation of diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution established that plasma levels of diclofenac following ocular instillation of two drops of diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution , 0 . 1 % to each eye were below the limit of quantitation ( 10 ng / mL ) over a 4 - hour period .
This study suggests that limited , if any , systemic absorption occurs with diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution , 0 . 1 % .
Clinical Trials Postoperative Anti - Inflammatory Effects In a clinical therapeutic equivalence study , Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % , was found to be therapeutically equivalent to VOLTAREN OPHTHALMIC ® ( diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution ) [ CIBA VISION OPHTHALMICS ® ] in the treatment of signs and symptoms of inflammation resulting from cataract surgery .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of the medication .
WARNINGS With some nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , there exists the potential for increased bleeding time due to interference with thrombocyte aggregation .
There have been reports that ocularly applied nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs may cause increased bleeding of ocular tissues ( including hyphemas ) in conjunction with ocular surgery .
There is the potential for cross - sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid , phenylacetic acid derivatives , and other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents .
Therefore , caution should be used when treating individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs .
PRECAUTIONS General It is recommended that Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % , like other NSAIDs , be used with caution in surgical patients with known bleeding tendencies or who are receiving other medications that may prolong bleeding time .
Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % may slow or delay healing .
Results from clinical studies indicate that Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % has no significant effect upon intraocular pressure , however , elevations in intraocular pressure may occur following cataract surgery .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term carcinogenicity studies in rats given oral diclofenac sodium up to 2 mg / kg / day ( approximately the human oral dose ) have revealed no significant increases in tumor incidence .
There was a slight increase in benign rat mammary fibroadenomas in mid - dose females ( high dose females had excessive mortality ) but the increase was not significant for this common rat tumor .
A 2 - year carcinogenicity study conducted in mice employing oral diclofenac sodium up to 2 mg / kg / day did not reveal any oncogenic potential .
Diclofenac sodium did not show mutagenic potential in various mutagenicity studies including the Ames test .
Diclofenac sodium administered to male and female rats at 4 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies performed in mice at oral doses up to 5000 times ( 20 mg / kg / day ) and in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 2500 times ( 10 mg / kg / day ) the human topical dose have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity due to diclofenac sodium , despite the induction of maternal toxicity and fetal toxicity .
In rats , maternally toxic doses were associated with dystocia , prolonged gestation , reduced fetal weights and growth , and reduced fetal survival .
Diclofenac sodium has been shown to cross the placental barrier in mice and rats .
There are however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic effects Because of the known effects of prostaglandin biosynthesis - inhibiting drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of the ductus arteriosus ) , the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular Transient burning and stinging was reported in 15 % of patients with the use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution , 0 . 1 % .
In cataract studies , keratitis occurred in 28 % of patients receiving diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution , 0 . 1 % ; however , most of the cases of keratitis occurred prior to drug therapy .
Elevated intraocular pressure was reported in 15 % of patients receiving diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution , 0 . 1 % .
The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5 % or less of the patients : abnormal vision , anterior chamber reaction , blurred vision , conjunctivitis , corneal deposits , corneal edema , corneal lesions , corneal opacity , discharge , injection , iritis , irritation , itching and ocular allergy .
Systemic The following adverse reactions were reported in 3 % or less of the patients : abdominal pain , asthenia , chills , dizziness , facial edema , fever , headache , insomnia , nausea , pain , rhinitis , viral infection , and vomiting .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage will not ordinarily cause acute problems .
If accidentally ingested , fluids should be taken to dilute the medication .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % should be applied to the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period .
How Supplied Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution , 0 . 1 % is supplied in opaque , plastic DROP - TAINER ® dispenser in the following sizes : 2 . 5 mL : NDC 61314 - 231 - 26 5 . 0 mL : NDC 61314 - 231 - 05 Store between 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Protect from light .
Dispense in original , unopened container only .
Rx Only U . S . Patent Nos . 5 , 603 , 929 and 5 , 653 , 972 Distributed by : FALCON Pharmaceuticals , Ltd .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Manufactured by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA February 1999 342458 - 0299
