DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient / Purpose : Benzethonium Chloride ( 0 . 12 % ) .............. Antiseptic Allantoin ( 0 . 5 % ) ...............................
Skin Protectant Uses : Helps protect skin and supports healing of minor cuts , scrapes , burns and wounds , including pressure sores , diabetic ulcers , cracked skin , and lips .
Topical antiseptic to help decrease the risk of infection Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use : • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have : • deep or puncture wounds • deep cuts • animal bites • serious burns When using this product : • Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
• Apply only to the affected area .
Avoid ingestion .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : • Condition worsens • Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • Clean minor cut , scrapes , or burns by thoroughly flushing the affected area with water or BerbereX ® wound cleanser and let air dry • Apply appropriate layer of the gel to cover the affected area • Cover with adhesive bandage or sterile gauze if needed • Apply 1 to 3 times daily • Children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients : Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Ethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Hydrastis Canadensis L . , Hydrolyzed Bovine Collagen , Laureth - 7 , Panax Quinquefolius L . , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Acryloyldimethyltaurate - Acrylamide Copolymer , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Hydroxide , Water Storage and handling : Store at room temperature 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) Do not expose to excessive heat May discolor or stain certain fabrics For Questions : Call 1 - 888 - 252 - 6208 NuVision Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
4651 Roswell Rd . , Suite G - 601 Atlanta , GA 30342 Website : www . berberex . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
