Active ingredient ( in each applicator ) Tioconazole 300 mg ( 6 . 5 % ) Purpose vaginal antifungal Use • treats vaginal yeast infections Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • lower abdominal , back or shoulder pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge .
You may have a more serious condition .
• vaginal yeast infections often ( such as once a month or 3 in 6 months ) .
You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms , including diabetes or a weakened immune system .
• been exposed to human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) that causes AIDS When using this product • do not use tampons , douches , spermicides , or other vaginal products .
Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted disease ( STDs ) .
• do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning , itching or irritation may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not get better after 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives , abdominal pain , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or foul - smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • before using this product read the enclosed brochure and instructions on foil packet for complete directions and information • adults and children 12 years and over : 1 .
Open the foil packet just before use and remove purple cap .
2 .
Insert entire contents of applicator into the vagina at bedtime .
Throw applicator away after use .
• children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • this product is a 1 - dose treatment , most women do not experience complete relief of their symptoms in just one day .
Most women experience some relief within one day and complete relief of symptoms within 7 days .
• if you have questions about vaginal yeast infections , consult your doctor • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • see end flap of carton for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxyanisole , magnesium aluminum silicate , white petrolatum Do not use if sealed foil packet torn , open , or incompletely sealed .
1 - DOSE TREATMENT TIOCONAZOLE OINTMENT 6 . 5 % VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL DIRECTIONS FOR USE • Tear open foil packet just before using .
It is best to use at bedtime .
• Remove applicator and plunger from packet .
Applicator is prefilled with vaginal ointment .
• While firmly holding the purple - capped end of the applicator , push the tip of the plunger into the base of applicator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] REMOVE PURPLE CAP from top of applicator with a pull - twist action .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Insert the applicator • Lie on your back with your knees bent .
Gently insert applicator into the vagina as far as it will go comfortably .
• Push the plunger into the applicator until it will go no farther .
Withdraw the applicator and plunger and dispose of it in the wastebasket .
Do not flush .
• DO NOT USE TAMPONS while using this medicine .
Use sanitary napkins instead .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PLEASE READ EDUCATIONAL BROCHURE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .
4260000 P6 DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO ALLEGAN , MI 48010 U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
