[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Warnings and Precautions Taste Disturbance Including Loss of Taste ( 5 . 2 ) 10 / 2010 Smell Disturbance Including Loss of Smell ( 5 . 3 ) 03 / 2011 Depressive Symptoms ( 5 . 4 ) 10 / 2010 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes ( tinea unguium ) .
Prior to initiating treatment , appropriate nail specimens for laboratory testing ( KOH preparation , fungal culture , or nail biopsy ) should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis of onychomycosis .
Terbinafine tablets are an allylamine antifungal indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes ( tinea unguium ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fingernail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet once daily for 6 weeks .
Toenail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet once daily for 12 weeks .
The optimal clinical effect is seen some months after mycological cure and cessation of treatment .
This is related to the period required for outgrowth of healthy nail .
• Fingernail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet , once daily for 6 weeks • Toenail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet , once daily for 12 weeks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , USP 250 mg are available for oral administration as white , round , biconvex tablets with beveled edges , engraved “ APO ” on one side , “ TER ” over “ 250 ” on the other side .
Tablet , 250 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in individuals with a history of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
Terbinafine tablets are contraindicated in individuals with a history of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Liver failure , sometimes leading to liver transplant or death , has occured with the use of oral terbinafine .
Obtain pretreatment serum transaminases .
Discontinue terbinafine tablets if liver injury develops .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 8 ) • Taste disturbance , including taste loss , has been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
Taste disturbance can be severe , may be prolonged , or may be permanent .
Discontinue terbinafine tablets if taste disturbance occurs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Smell disturbance , including loss of smell , has been reported with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Smell disturbance may be prolonged , or may be permanent .
Discontinue terbinafine tablets if smell disturbance occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) • Depressive symptoms have been reported with terbinafine use .
Prescribers should be alert to development of depressive symptoms .
( 5 . 4 ) • Severe neutropenia has been reported .
If the neutrophil count is ≤ 1 , 000 cells / mm3 , terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
( 5 . 5 ) • Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported with oral terbinafine use .
If progressive skin rash occurs , treatment with terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Hepatotoxicity Cases of liver failure , some leading to liver transplant or death , have occurred with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets in individuals with and without pre - existing liver disease .
In the majority of liver cases reported in association with terbinafine hydrochloride use , the patients had serious underlying systemic conditions .
The severity of hepatic events and / or their outcome may be worse in patients with active or chronic liver disease .
Treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued if biochemical or clinical evidence of liver injury develops .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients with chronic or active liver disease .
Before prescribing terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , pre - existing liver disease should be assessed .
Hepatotoxicity may occur in patients with and without pre - existing liver disease .
Patients prescribed terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be warned to report immediately to their physician any symptoms of persistent nausea , anorexia , fatigue , vomiting , right upper abdominal pain or jaundice , dark urine or pale stools .
Patients with these symptoms should discontinue taking oral terbinafine , and the patient ’ s liver function should be immediately evaluated .
5 . 2 Taste Disturbance Including Loss of Taste Taste disturbance , including taste loss , has been reported with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
It can be severe enough to result in decreased food intake , weight loss , and depressive symptoms .
Taste disturbance may resolve within several weeks after discontinuation of treatment , but may be prolonged ( greater than one year ) , or may be permanent .
If symptoms of a taste disturbance occur , terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 3 Smell Disturbance Including Loss of Smell Smell disturbance , including loss of smell , has been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
Smell disturbance may resolve after discontinuation of treatment , but may be prolonged ( greater than one year ) , or may be permanent .
If symptoms of a smell disturbance occur , terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 4 Depressive Symptoms Depressive symptoms have occurred during postmarketing use of terbinafine .
Prescribers should be alert to depressive symptoms , and patients should be instructed to report depressive symptoms to their physician .
5 . 5 Hematologic Effects Transient decreases in absolute lymphocyte counts ( ALC ) have been observed in controlled clinical trials .
In placebo - controlled trials , 8 / 465 terbinafine hydrochloride - treated patients ( 1 . 7 % ) and 3 / 137 placebo - treated patients ( 2 . 2 % ) had decreases in ALC to below 1000 / mm3 on two or more occasions .
In patients with known or suspected immunodeficiency , physicians should consider monitoring complete blood counts if treatment continues for more than six weeks .
Cases of severe neutropenia have been reported .
These were reversible upon discontinuation of terbinafine hydrochloride , with or without supportive therapy .
If clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of secondary infection occur , a complete blood count should be obtained .
If the neutrophil count is ≤ 1 , 000 cells / mm3 , terbinafine should be discontinued and supportive management started .
5 . 6 Skin Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious skin reactions ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) .
If progressive skin rash occurs , treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 7 Lupus Erythematosus During postmarketing experience , precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients taking terbinafine hydrochloride .
Terbinafine hydrochloride therapy should be discontinued in patients with clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of lupus erythematosus .
5 . 8 Laboratory Monitoring Measurement of serum transaminases ( ALT and AST ) is advised for all patients before taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common ( > 2 % in patients treated with terbinafine tablets ) reported adverse events include headache , diarrhea , rash , dyspepsia , liver enzyme abnormalities , pruritus , taste disturbance , nausea , abdominal pain , and flatulence .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex at 1 - 800 - 667 - 4708 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequently reported adverse events observed in the three US / Canadian placebo - controlled trials are listed in the table below .
The adverse events reported encompass gastrointestinal symptoms ( including diarrhea , dyspepsia , and abdominal pain ) , liver test abnormalities , rashes , urticaria , pruritus , and taste disturbances .
Changes in the ocular lens and retina have been reported following the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets in controlled trials .
The clinical significance of these changes is unknown .
In general , the adverse events were mild , transient , and did not lead to discontinuation from study participation .
Adverse Event Discontinuation Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) n = 465 n = 137 n = 465 n = 137 Headache 12 . 9 9 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Gastrointestinal Symptoms : Diarrhea 5 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 6 0 . 0 Dyspepsia 4 . 3 2 . 9 0 . 4 0 . 0 Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 1 . 5 0 . 4 0 . 0 Nausea 2 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 2 0 . 0 Flatulence 2 . 2 2 . 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 Dermatological Symptoms : Rash 5 . 6 2 . 2 0 . 9 0 . 7 Pruritis 2 . 8 1 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Urticaria 1 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 Liver Enzyme Abnormalities * 3 . 3 1 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 0 Taste Disturbance 2 . 8 0 . 7 0 . 2 0 . 0 Visual Disturbance 1 . 1 1 . 5 0 . 9 0 . 0 * Liver enzyme abnormalities ≥ 2 x the upper limit of normal range .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse events have been identified during post - approval use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse events , based on worldwide experience with terbinafine hydrochloride use , include : idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatic injury and more rarely , cases of liver failure , some leading to death or liver transplant , , serious skin reactions ( e . g . , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) , severe neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , anemia , angioedema and allergic reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 5 , and 5 . 6 ) ] .
Psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis and precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients taking terbinafine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Cases of taste disturbance , including taste loss , have been reported with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
It can be severe enough to result in decreased food intake , weight loss , and depressive symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Depressive symptoms independent of taste disturbance have been reported with use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
In some cases , depressive symptoms have been reported to subside with discontinuance of therapy and to recur with reinstitution of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Cases of smell disturbance , including smell loss , have been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Other adverse reactions which have been reported include malaise , fatigue , vomiting , arthralgia , myalgia , rhabdomyolysis , reduced visual acuity , visual field defect , hair loss , serum sickness - like reaction , vasculitis , pancreatitis , influenza - like illness , pyrexia and increased blood creatine phosphokinase and photosensitivity reactions .
Altered prothrombin time ( prolongation and reduction ) in patients concomitantly treated with warfarin has been reported .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Terbinafine is an inhibitor of CYP4502D6 isozyme and has an effect on metabolism of desipramine , cimetidine , fluconazole , cyclosporine , rifampin , and caffeine .
( 7 . 1 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA - approved patient labeling 7 . 1 Drug - Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme .
Drugs predominantly metabolized by the CYP450 2D6 isozyme include the following drug classes : tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , beta - blockers , antiarrhythmics class 1 C ( e . g . , flecainide and propafenone ) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors Type B . Coadministration of terbinafine should be done with careful monitoring and may require a reduction in dose of the 2D6 - metabolized drug .
In a study to assess the effects of terbinafine on desipramine in healthy volunteers characterized as normal metabolizers , the administration of terbinafine resulted in a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and a 5 - fold increase in AUC .
In this study , these effects were shown to persist at the last observation at 4 weeks after discontinuation of terbinafine .
In studies in healthy subjects characterized as extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan ( antitussive drug and CYP2D6 probe substrate ) , terbinafine increases the dextromethorphan / dextrorphan metabolite ratio in urine by 16 - to 97 - fold on average .
Thus , terbinafine may convert extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers to poor metabolizer status .
In vitro studies with human liver microsomes showed that terbinafine does not inhibit the metabolism of tolbutamide , ethinylestradiol , ethoxycoumarin , cyclosporine , cisapride and fluvastatin .
In vivo drug - drug interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteer subjects showed that terbinafine does not affect the clearance of antipyrine or digoxin .
Terbinafine decreases the clearance of caffeine by 19 % .
Terbinafine increases the clearance of cyclosporine by 15 % .
The influence of terbinafine on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole , cotrimoxazole ( trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole ) , zidovudine or theophylline was not considered to be clinically significant .
Co - administration of a single dose of fluconazole ( 100 mg ) with a single dose of terbinafine resulted in a 52 % and 69 % increase in terbinafine Cmax and AUC , respectively .
Fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A enzymes .
Based on this finding , it is likely that other inhibitors of both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , amiodarone ) may also lead to a substantial increase in the systemic exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) of terbinafine when concomitantly administered .
There have been spontaneous reports of increase or decrease in prothrombin times in patients concomitantly taking oral terbinafine and warfarin , however , a causal relationship between terbinafine hydrochloride tablets and these changes has not been established .
Terbinafine clearance is increased 100 % by rifampin , a CYP450 enzyme inducer , and decreased 33 % by cimetidine , a CYP450 enzyme inhibitor .
Terbinafine clearance is unaffected by cyclosporine .
There is no information available from adequate drug - drug interaction studies with the following classes of drugs : oral contraceptives , hormone replacement therapies , hypoglycemics , phenytoins , thiazide diuretics , and calcium channel blockers .
7 . 2 Food Interactions An evaluation of the effect of food on terbinafine hydrochloride tablets was conducted .
An increase of less than 20 % of the AUC ( i . e . area under the curve ) of terbinafine was observed when terbinafine hydrochloride tablets were administered with food .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , and because treatment of onychomycosis can be postponed until after pregnancy is completed , it is recommended that terbinafine not be initiated during pregnancy .
Oral reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 12 x to 23 x the MRHD , in rabbits and rats , respectively , based on BSA ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to terbinafine .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers After oral administration , terbinafine is present in breast milk of nursing mothers .
The ratio of terbinafine in milk to plasma is 7 : 1 .
Treatment with terbinafine hydrochloride is not recommended in nursing mothers .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of terbinafine hydrochloride have not been established in pediatric patients with onychomycosis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Clinical experience regarding overdose with oral terbinafine is limited .
Doses up to 5 grams ( 20 times the therapeutic daily dose ) have been taken without inducing serious adverse reactions .
The symptoms of overdose included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , dizziness , rash , frequent urination , and headache .
11 DESCRIPTION Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , USP contain the synthetic allylamine antifungal compound terbinafine hydrochloride .
Chemically , terbinafine hydrochloride is ( E ) - N - ( 6 , 6 - dimethyl - 2 - hepten - 4 - ynyl ) - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethanamine hydrochloride .
The empirical formula C21H26CIN with a molecular weight of 327 . 90 , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Terbinafine hydrochloride is a white to off - white fine crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in methanol and methylene chloride , soluble in ethanol , and slightly soluble in water .
Each tablet contains : Active Ingredients : terbinafine hydrochloride ( equivalent to 250 mg base ) .
Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , and methylcellulose .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Terbinafine is an allylamine antifungal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of terbinafine hydrochloride is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following oral administration , terbinafine is well absorbed ( > 70 % ) and the bioavailability of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets as a result of first - pass metabolism is approximately 40 % .
Peak plasma concentrations of 1 mcg / mL appear within 2 hours after a single 250 mg dose ; the AUC ( area under the curve ) is approximately 4 . 56 mcg · h / mL .
An increase in the AUC of terbinafine of less than 20 % is observed when terbinafine is administered with food .
In plasma , terbinafine is > 99 % bound to plasma proteins and there are no specific binding sites .
At steady - state , in comparison to a single dose , the peak concentration of terbinafine is 25 % higher and plasma AUC increases by a factor of 2 . 5 ; the increase in plasma AUC is consistent with an effective half - life of ~ 36 hours .
Terbinafine is distributed to the sebum and skin .
A terminal half - life of 200 to 400 hours may represent the slow elimination of terbinafine from tissues such as skin and adipose .
Prior to excretion , terbinafine is extensively metabolized by at least seven CYP isoenzymes with major contributions from CYP2C9 , CYP1A2 , CYP3A4 , CYP2C8 and CYP2C19 .
No metabolites have been identified that have antifungal activity similar to terbinafine .
Approximately 70 % of the administered dose is eliminated in the urine .
In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or hepatic cirrhosis , the clearance of terbinafine is decreased by approximately 50 % compared to normal volunteers .
No effect of gender on the blood levels of terbinafine was detected in clinical trials .
No clinically relevant age - dependent changes in steady - state plasma concentrations of terbinafine have been reported .
12 . 4 Microbiology Terbinafine an allylamine antifungal , inhibits biosynthesis of ergosterol , an essential component of fungal cell membrane , via inhibition of squalene epoxidase enzyme .
This results in fungal cell death primarily due to the increased membrane permeability mediated by the accumulation of high concentrations of squalene but not due to ergosterol deficiency .
Depending on the concentration of the drug and the fungal species test in vitro , terbinafine hydrochloride may be fungicidal .
However , the clinical significance of in vitro data is unknown .
Terbinafine has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections : Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
In vitro , terbinafine exhibits satisfactory MIC ’ s against most strains of the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of terbinafine in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : Candida albicans Epidermophyton floccosum Scopulariopsis brevicaulis 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 28 - month oral carcinogenicity study in rats , an increase in the incidence of liver tumors was observed in males at the highest dose tested , 69 mg / kg / day [ 2 x the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on AUC comparisons of the parent terbinafine ] ; however , even though dose - limiting toxicity was not achieved at the highest tested dose , higher doses were not tested .
The results of a variety of in vitro ( mutations in E . coli and S . typhimurium , DNA repair in rat hepatocytes , mutagenicity in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , chromosome aberration and sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster lung cells ) , and in vivo ( chromosome aberration in Chinese hamsters , micronucleus test in mice ) genotoxicity tests gave no evidence of a mutagenic or clastogenic potential .
Oral reproduction studies in rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 x the MRHD based on body surface area comparisons , BSA ) did not reveal any specific effects on fertility or other reproductive parameters .
Intravaginal application of terbinafine hydrochloride at 150 mg / day in pregnant rabbits did not increase the incidence of abortions or premature deliveries nor affect fetal parameters .
13 . 2 Animal toxicology and / or pharmacology A wide range of in vivo studies in mice , rats , dogs , and monkeys , and in vitro studies using rat , monkey , and human hepatocytes suggest that peroxisome proliferation in the liver is a rat - specific finding .
However , other effects , including increased liver weights and APTT , occurred in dogs and monkeys at doses giving Css trough levels of the parent terbinafine 2 to 3 x those seen in humans at the MRHD .
Higher doses were not tested .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets in the treatment of onychomycosis is illustrated by the response of patients with toenail and / or fingernail infections who participated in three US / Canadian placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Results of the first toenail study , as assessed at week 48 ( 12 weeks of treatment with 36 weeks followup after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure , defined as simultaneous occurrence of negative KOH plus negative culture , in 70 % of patients .
Fifty - nine percent ( 59 % ) of patients experienced effective treatment ( mycological cure plus 0 % nail involvement or > 5 mm of new unaffected nail growth ) ; 38 % of patients demonstrated mycological cure plus clinical cure ( 0 % nail involvement ) .
In a second toenail study of dermatophytic onychomycosis , in which non - dermatophytes were also cultured , similar efficacy against the dermatophytes was demonstrated .
The pathogenic role of the non - dermatophytes cultured in the presence of dermatophytic onychomycosis has not been established .
The clinical significance of this association is unknown .
Results of the fingernail study , as assessed at week 24 ( 6 weeks of treatment with 18 weeks follow - up after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure in 79 % of patients , effective treatment in 75 % of the patients , and mycological cure plus clinical cure in 59 % of the patients .
The mean time to overall success was approximately 10 months for the first toenail study and 4 months for the fingernail study .
In the first toenail study , for patients evaluated at least six months after achieving clinical cure and at least one year after completingterbinafine hydrochloride therapy , the clinical relapse rate was approximately 15 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 250 mg are available for oral administration as white , round , biconvex tablets with beveled edges , engraved “ APO ” on one side , “ TER ” over “ 250 ” on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 5794 - 0 Bottles of 90 NDC 54868 - 5794 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container [ see USP ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) ] Patients taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets should receive the following information and instructions : • Patients should take one 250 mg tablet once daily for 6 weeks for treatment of fingernail onychomycosis or once daily for 12 weeks for treatment of toenail onychomycosis .
The optimal clinical effect is seen some months after mycological cure and cessation of treatment due to the time period required for outgrowth of healthy nail .
• Patients should be advised to immediately report to their physician any symptoms of persistent nausea , anorexia , fatigue , vomiting , right upper abdominal pain , jaundice , dark urine or pale stools .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets treatment should be discontinued .
• Patients should be advised to report to their physician any signs of taste disturbance , smell disturbance and / or depressive symptoms .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets treatment should be discontinued .
• Patients should be advised to immediately report to their physician or get emergency help if they experience any of the following symptoms : hives , mouth sores , blistering and peeling of skin , swelling of face , lips , tongue , or throat , difficulty swallowing or breathing .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets treatment should be discontinued .
• Patients should be advised to report to their physician any symptoms of new onset or worsening lupus erythematosus .
Symptoms can include erythema , scaling , loss of pigment , and unusual photosensitivity that can result in a rash .
Terbinafine hydrochloride tablets treatment should be discontinued .
• Photosensitivity reactions have been reported with the use of terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
Patients should be advised to minimize exposure to natural and artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
• Measurement of serum transaminases ( ALT and AST ) is advised for all patients before taking terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
• Patients should be advised that if they forget to take terbinafine hydrochloride tablets , to take their tablets as soon as they remember , unless it is less than four hours before the next dose is due .
Patients should also be advised that if they take too many terbinafine hydrochloride tablets they should call their physician .
APOTEX INC .
TERBINAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS , USP 250 mg Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : December 2011 Rev . 2 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 Patient Information Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP Read this Patient Information before you start taking terbinafine hydrochloride and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is terbinafine hydrochloride ?
Terbinafine hydrochloride is a prescription antifungal medicine used to treat fungal infections of the fingernails and toenails ( onychomycosis ) .
Your doctor should do tests to check you for fungal infection of your nails before you start terbinafine hydrochloride .
It is not known if terbinafine hydrochloride is safe and effective in children for the treatment of onychomycosis .
Who should not take terbinafine hydrochloride ?
Do not take terbinafine hydrochloride if you are allergic to terbinafine hydrochloride when taken by mouth .
What should I tell my doctor before taking terbinafine hydrochloride ?
Before you take terbinafine hydrochloride , tell your doctor if you : • have or had liver problems • have a weakened immune system ( immunocompromised ) • have lupus ( an autoimmune disease ) • have kidney problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if terbinafine hydrochloride will harm your unborn baby .
You should not start using terbinafine hydrochloride during pregnancy without talking with your doctor .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Some terbinafine hydrochloride passes into your milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take terbinafine hydrochloride .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Terbinafine hydrochloride may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how terbinafine hydrochloride works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • a medicine for depression • a medicine for high blood pressure • a medicine for heart problems • desipramine ( Norpramin ) • caffeine • cyclosporine ( Gengraf , Neoral , Sandimmune ) • fluconazole ( Diflucan ) • rifampin ( Rifater , Rifamate , Rimactane , Rifadine ) • cimetidine ( Tagamet ) If you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take terbinafine hydrochloride ?
• Take terbinafine hydrochloride exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Terbinafine hydrochloride comes as a tablet that you take by mouth .
• terbinafine hydrochloride is usually taken : • 1 time each day for 6 weeks to treat fungal infections of your fingernail , or • 1 time each day for 12 weeks to treat fungal infections of your toenail • You can take terbinafine hydrochloride with or without food .
• If you forget to take terbinafine hydrochloride , take your tablets as soon as you remember , unless it is less than 4 hours before your next dose is due .
In this case , wait and take your next dose at the usual time .
• If you take too much terbinafine hydrochloride call your doctor .
You may have the following symptoms : • nausea • vomiting • stomach ( abdominal ) pain • dizziness • rash • frequent urination • headache What are the possible side effects ofterbinafine hydrochloride ?
Terbinafine hydrochloride may cause serious side effects , including : • liver problems that can lead to the need for liver transplant , or death .
Tell your doctor right away if you get any of these symptoms of a liver problem : • nausea • upper right stomach ( abdominal ) pain • poor appetite • yellowing of your skin or eyes ( jaundice ) • tiredness • dark ( tea - colored ) urine • vomiting • pale or light colored stools Your doctor should do a blood test to check you for liver problems before you take terbinafine hydrochloride .
• change in taste or loss of taste may happen with terbinafine hydrochloride .
This usually improves within several weeks after stopping terbinafine hydrochloride , but may last for a long time or may become permanent .
Tell your doctor if you have : • change in taste or loss of taste • poor appetite • unwanted weight loss , or • change in mood or depressive symptoms • change in smell or loss of smell may happen with terbinafine hydrochloride tablets .
This may improve after stopping terbinafine hydrochloride , but may last for a long time or may become permanent .
• depressive symptoms .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms : • feel sad or worthless • change in sleep pattern • loss of energy or interest in daily activities • restlessness • mood changes • serious skin or allergic reactions .
Tell your doctor right away or get emergency help if you get any of these symptoms : • skin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or your skin blisters and peels • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue or throat • trouble swallowing or breathing • new or worsening lupus ( an autoimmune disease ) .
Stop taking terbinafine hydrochloride and tell your doctor if you experience any of the following : • progressive skin rash that is scaly , red , shows scarring , or loss of pigment • unusual sensitivity to the sun that can lead to a rash The most common side effects of terbinafine hydrochloride include : headache , diarrhea , rash , dyspepsia , liver enzyme abnormalities , pruritus , taste disturbance , nausea , abdominal pain , and flatulence .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of terbinafine hydrochloride .
For information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I Store terbinafine hydrochloride ?
• Store terbinafine hydrochloride at a temperature below 77 ° ( 25 ° ) .
• Keep terbinafine hydrochloride in a tightly closed container and away from light .
Keep terbinafine hydrochloride and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use ofterbinafine hydrochloride .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information .
Do not use terbinafine hydrochloride for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give terbinafine hydrochloride to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about terbinafine hydrochloride .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about terbinafine hydrochloride that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients interbinafine hydrochloride ?
Active ingredient : terbinafine hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate and methylcellulose This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Association .
APOTEX INC .
TERBINAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS , USP 250 mg Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : December 2011 Rev . 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIEDsection for complete listing ) : PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mg BOTTLE LABEL Terbinafine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 250 mg Rx [ MULTIMEDIA ]
