WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet USP is the combination tablet of valsartan , an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a diuretic .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure : • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including hydrochlorothiazide and the angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) class to which valsartan principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality have also been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( e . g . , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Add - On Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy .
Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be substituted for the titrated components .
Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals .
The choice of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks .
Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events ( such as strokes , heart attacks , and heart failure ) , kidney failure , and vision problems , so prompt treatment is clinically relevant .
The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure , the target goal , and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy .
Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient ' s risk .
Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP , 320 mg / 25 mg , based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure .
The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling .
The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] For example , a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160 / 100 mmHg has about a 41 % likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg ( systolic ) and 60 % likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg ( diastolic ) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50 % ( systolic ) or 57 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP rises to about 84 % ( systolic ) or 80 % ( diastolic ) .
The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23 % ( systolic ) or 36 % ( diastolic ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily .
Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320 / 25 mg ( 2 ) • May be used as add - on / switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components ( valsartan or HCTZ ) ( 2 ) • May be substituted for titrated components ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP , 160 / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 / 25 tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose .
2 . 2 Add - On Therapy A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan ( or another ARB ) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP .
A patient who experiences dose - limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions .
The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy , the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 / 25 mg .
2 . 3 Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be substituted for the titrated components .
2 . 4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 5 Use with Other Antihypertensive Drugs Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets ( valsartan / HCTZ mg ) : 80 / 12 . 5 , 160 / 12 . 5 , 160 / 25 , 320 / 12 . 5 , 320 / 25 ( 3 ) 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets , light pink colored , capsule shaped , film - coated biconvex tablets , debossed with " LU " on one side and " P11 " on the other side .
160 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets , reddish brown colored , capsule shaped , film - coated biconvex tablets , debossed with " LU " on one side and " P12 " on the other side .
160 mg / 25 mg tablets , light orange colored , capsule shaped , film - coated biconvex tablets , debossed with " LU " on one side and " P13 " on the other side .
320 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets , pink , capsule shaped , film - coated biconvex tablets , debossed with ' LU ' on one side and ' P14 ' on the other side .
320 mg / 25 mg tablets , yellow , capsule shaped , film - coated biconvex tablets , debossed with ' LU ' on one side and ' P15 ' on the other side .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria ; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide - derived drugs or any component ; Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension : Correct volume depletion prior to initiation ( 5 . 2 ) • Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 5 . 9 ) • Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 7 ) • Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus ( 5 . 5 ) • Acute angle - closure glaucoma ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
Thiazides cross the placenta , and use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - and / or Salt - Depleted Patients Excessive reduction of blood pressure was rarely seen ( 0 . 7 % ) in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled trials .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients receiving high doses of diuretics , symptomatic hypotension may occur .
This condition should be corrected prior to administration of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
If hypotension occurs , place the patient in the supine position and , if necessary , give intravenous normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Monitor renal function periodically in these patients .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reaction Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history .
5 . 5 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
5 . 6 Lithium Interaction Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of valsartan or thiazide diuretics .
Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 7 Potassium Abnormalities In the controlled trials of various doses of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia ( serum potassium < 3 . 5 mEq / L ) was 3 % ; the incidence of hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 5 . 7 mEq / L ) was 0 . 4 % .
Hydrochlorothiazide can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which appears difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
If hypokalemia is accompanied by clinical signs ( e . g . , muscular weakness , paresis , or ECG alterations ) , valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued .
Correction of hypokalemia and any coexisting hypomagnesemia is recommended prior to the initiation of thiazides .
Some patients with heart failure have developed increases in potassium with valsartan therapy .
These effects are usually minor and transient , and they are more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of the diuretic and / or valsartan may be required [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
5 . 9 Metabolic Disturbances Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hydrochlorothiazide may raise the serum uric acid level due to reduced clearance of uric acid and may cause or exacerbate hyperuricemia and precipitate gout in susceptible patients .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Monitor calcium levels in patients with hypercalcemia receiving valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide were headache and dizziness .
The only adverse experience that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and at a higher incidence than placebo was nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 4 % vs . 1 . 9 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Hypertension Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in more than 5700 patients , including over 990 treated for over 6 months , and over 370 for over 1 year .
Adverse experiences have generally been mild and transient in nature and have only infrequently required discontinuation of therapy .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide was comparable to placebo .
The overall frequency of adverse reactions was neither dose - related nor related to gender , age , or race .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in 2 . 3 % of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide patients and 3 . 1 % of placebo patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide were headache and dizziness .
The only adverse reaction that occurred in controlled clinical trials in at least 2 % of patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and at a higher incidence in valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 4372 ) than placebo ( n = 262 ) patients was nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 4 % vs . 1 . 9 % ) .
Dose - related orthostatic effects were seen in fewer than 1 % of patients .
In individual trials , a dose - related increase in the incidence of dizziness was observed in patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Initial Therapy - Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg ) , the overall pattern of adverse reactions reported through 6 weeks of follow - up was similar in patients treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with valsartan as initial therapy .
Comparing the groups treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide ( force - titrated to 320 / 25 mg ) and valsartan ( force - titrated to 320 mg ) , dizziness was observed in 6 % and 2 % of patients , respectively .
Hypotension was observed in 1 % of those patients receiving valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and 0 % of patients receiving valsartan .
There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group .
Laboratory changes with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy in patients with severe hypertension were similar to those reported with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with less severe hypertension [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Valsartan : In trials in which valsartan was compared to an ACE inhibitor with or without placebo , the incidence of dry cough was significantly greater in the ACE inhibitor group ( 7 . 9 % ) than in the groups who received valsartan ( 2 . 6 % ) or placebo ( 1 . 5 % ) .
In a 129 - patient trial limited to patients who had dry cough when they had previously received ACE inhibitors , the incidences of cough in patients who received valsartan , hydrochlorothiazide , or lisinopril were 20 % , 19 % , 69 % respectively ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in valsartan or valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide postmarketing experience .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity Angioedema has been reported .
Some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should not be re - administered to patients who have had angioedema .
Digestive Elevated liver enzymes and reports of hepatitis Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis Renal Impaired renal function Dermatologic Alopecia , bullous dermatitis Vascular Vasculitis Nervous System Syncope Hydrochlorothiazide : The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience with hydrochlorothiazide : Acute renal failure , renal disorder , aplastic anemia , erythema multiforme , pyrexia , muscle spasm , asthenia , acute angle - closure glaucoma , bone marrow failure , worsening of diabetes control , hypokalemia , blood lipids increased , hyponatremia , hypomagnesemia , hypercalcemia , hypochloremic alkalosis , impotence , and visual impairment .
Pathological changes in the parathyroid gland of patients with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
If hypercalcemia occurs , further diagnostic evaluation is necessary .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12 . 3 ) • Lithium : Increased risk of lithium toxicity .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concurrent use .
( 7 ) • Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : May increase risk of renal impairment .
Can reduce diuretic , natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of diuretics .
( 7 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides .
Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Valsartan Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin - angiotensin system , potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , triamterene , amiloride ) , potassium supplements , salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels ( e . g . , heparin ) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine .
If co - medication is considered necessary , monitoring of serum potassium is advisable .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin - receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Antidiabetic Drugs ( Oral Agents and Insulin ) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs and COX - 2 Selective Inhibitors ) When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Carbamazepine May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia .
Ion Exchange Resins Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins ( e . g . , cholestyramine , colestipol ) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Cyclosporine Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout - type complications .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Nursing or drug should be discontinued ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the reninangiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Published reports include cases of anhydramnios and oligohydramnios in pregnant women treated with valsartan ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
When pregnancy is detected discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations : Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Valsartan : Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension and death .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
If oligohydramnios is observed , consider alternative drug treatment .
Closely observe neonates with histories of in utero exposure to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , if oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and replacing renal function .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Thiazides can cross the placenta , and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma .
Hydrochlorothiazide , like other diuretics , can cause placental hypoperfusion .
It accumulates in the amniotic fluid , with reported concentrations up to 19 times higher than in umbilical vein plasma .
Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia .
Since they do not prevent or alter the course of EPH ( Edema , Proteinuria , Hypertension ) gestosis ( pre - eclampsia ) , these drugs should not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women .
The use of hydrochlorothiazide for other indications ( e . g . , heart disease ) in pregnancy should be avoided .
Data Animal Data : Valsartan plus Hydrochlorothiazide There was no evidence of teratogenicity in mice , rats , or rabbits treated orally with valsartan at doses of up to 600 , 100 , and 10 mg / kg / day [ 9 , 3 . 5 and 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ] , respectively , in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 188 , 31 , and 3 mg / kg / day ( 38 , 13 and 2 times the MRHD ) .
Fetotoxicity was observed in association with maternal toxicity in rats at valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide doses of ≥ 200 / 63 mg / kg / day and in rabbits at valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide doses of 10 / 3 mg / kg / day .
Evidence of fetotoxicity in rats consisted of decreased fetal weight and fetal variations of sternebrae , vertebrae , ribs , and / or renal papillae .
Evidence of fetotoxicity in rabbits included increased numbers of late resorptions with resultant increases in total resorptions , post - implantation losses , and decreased number of live fetuses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information regarding the presence of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Valsartan is present in rat milk .
Hydrochlorothiazide is present in human breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants , advise a nursing woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Data : Valsartan was detected in the milk of lactating rats 15 minutes after oral administration of a 3 mg / kg dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , 764 ( 17 . 5 % ) patients treated with valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide were ≥ 65 years and 118 ( 2 . 7 % ) were ≥ 75 years .
No overall difference in the efficacy or safety of valsartan - hydrochlorothiazide was observed between these patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Safety and effectiveness of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min ) have not been established .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild ( CrCl 60 to 90 mL / min ) or moderate ( CrCl 30 to 60 mL / min ) renal impairment .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Valsartan No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild - to - moderate liver disease .
No dosing recommendations can be provided for patients with severe liver disease .
Hydrochlorothiazide Minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage would be hypotension and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
Depressed level of consciousness , circulatory collapse and shock have been reported .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur institute supportive treatment .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by dialysis .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In rats and marmosets , single oral doses of valsartan up to 1524 and 762 mg / kg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide at doses up to 476 and 238 mg / kg , respectively , did not show any adverse treatment - related effects .
These no adverse effect doses in rats and marmosets , respectively , represent 46 . 5 and 23 times the MRHD of valsartan and 188 and 113 times the MRHD of hydrochlorothiazide on a mg / m2basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day valsartan in combination with 25 mg / day hydrochlorothiazide and a 60 - kg patient . )
Valsartan was without grossly observable adverse effects at single oral doses up to 2000 mg / kg in rats and up to 1000 mg / kg in marmosets , except for salivation and diarrhea in the rat and vomiting in the marmoset at the highest dose ( 60 and 31 times , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2basis ) ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats , which represents 2027 and 4054 times , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
11 DESCRIPTION Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet USP is a combination of valsartan , an orally active , specific angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) acting on the AT1 receptor subtype , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic .
Valsartan , a nonpeptide molecule , is chemically described as N - ( 1 - oxopentyl ) - N - [ [ 2 ' - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) [ 1 , 1 ' - biphenyl ] - 4 - yl ] methyl ] - L - Valine .
Its empirical formula is C24H29N5O3 , its molecular weight is 435 . 5 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan is a white to practically white fine powder .
It is soluble in ethanol and methanol and slightly soluble in water .
Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , its molecular weight is 297 . 73 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are formulated for oral administration to contain valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 160 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 160 mg / 25 mg , 320 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 320 mg / 25 mg .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide and additional colorants as below .
80 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow 160 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide red 160 mg / 25 mg : iron oxide black , iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow 320 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide black and iron oxide red 320 mg / 25 mg : iron oxide yellow [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Valsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Valsartan has much greater affinity ( about 20 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
The primary metabolite of valsartan is essentially inactive with an affinity for the AT1 receptor about one 200 th that of valsartan itself .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction also catalyzed by ACE .
Because valsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) , it does not affect the response to bradykinin .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Valsartan does not bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of valsartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so coadministration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Valsartan Valsartan inhibits the pressor effect of angiotensin II infusions .
An oral dose of 80 mg inhibits the pressor effect by about 80 % at peak with approximately 30 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
No information on the effect of larger doses is available .
Removal of the negative feedback of angiotensin II causes a 2 - to 3 - fold rise in plasma renin and consequent rise in angiotensin II plasma concentration in hypertensive patients .
Minimal decreases in plasma aldosterone were observed after administration of valsartan ; very little effect on serum potassium was observed .
Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide : Alcohol , Barbiturates , or Narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants : Possible increased responsiveness to muscle relaxants such as curare derivatives .
Digitalis Glycosides : Thiazide - induced hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may predispose the patient to digoxin toxicity .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Valsartan Valsartan peak plasma concentration is reached 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
Valsartan shows biexponential decay kinetics following intravenous administration , with an average elimination half - life of about 6 hours .
Absolute bioavailability for the capsule formulation is about 25 % ( range 10 % to 35 % ) .
Food decreases the exposure ( as measured by area under the curve [ AUC ] ) to valsartan by about 40 % and peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) by about 50 % .
AUC and Cmax values of valsartan increase approximately linearly with increasing dose over the clinical dosing range .
Valsartan does not accumulate appreciably in plasma following repeated administration .
Hydrochlorothiazide The estimated absolute bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide after oral administration is about 70 % .
Peak plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations ( Cmax ) are reached within 2 to 5 hours after oral administration .
There is no clinically significant effect of food on the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide . Hydrochlorothiazide binds to albumin ( 40 % to 70 % ) and distributes into erythrocytes .
Following oral administration , plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations decline bi - exponentially , with a mean distribution half - life of about 2 hours and an elimination half - life of about 10 hours .
Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with or without food .
Distribution Valsartan : The steady state volume of distribution of valsartan after intravenous administration is small ( 17 L ) , indicating that valsartan does not distribute into tissues extensively .
Valsartan is highly bound to serum proteins ( 95 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Metabolism Valsartan : The primary metabolite , accounting for about 9 % of dose , is valeryl 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
In vitro metabolism studies involving recombinant CYP 450 enzymes indicated that the CYP 2C9 isoenzyme is responsible for the formation of valeryl - 4 - hydroxy valsartan .
Valsartan does not inhibit CYP 450 isozymes at clinically relevant concentrations .
CYP 450 mediated drug interaction between valsartan and coadministered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Is not metabolized .
Excretion Valsartan : Valsartan , when administered as an oral solution , is primarily recovered in feces ( about 83 % of dose ) and urine ( about 13 % of dose ) .
The recovery is mainly as unchanged drug , with only about 20 % of dose recovered as metabolites .
Following intravenous administration , plasma clearance of valsartan is about 2 L / h and its renal clearance is 0 . 62 L / h ( about 30 % of total clearance ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide : About 70 % of an orally administered dose of hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug .
Specific Populations Geriatric : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan is higher by 70 % and the half - life is longer by 35 % in the elderly than in the young .
A limited amount of data suggest that the systemic clearance of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in both healthy and hypertensive elderly subjects compared to young healthy volunteers .
Gender : Pharmacokinetics of valsartan do not differ significantly between males and females .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Renal Insufficiency : There is no apparent correlation between renal function ( measured by creatinine clearance ) and exposure ( measured by AUC ) to valsartan in patients with different degrees of renal impairment .
Valsartan has not been studied in patients with severe impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) .
Valsartan is not removed from the plasma by hemodialysis .
In a study in individuals with impaired renal function , the mean elimination half - life of hydrochlorothiazide was doubled in individuals with mild / moderate renal impairment ( 30 < CrCl < 90 mL / min ) and tripled in severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min ) , compared to individuals with normal renal function ( CrCl > 90 mL / min ) .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Insufficiency : On average , patients with mild - to - moderate chronic liver disease have twice the exposure ( measured by AUC values ) to valsartan of healthy volunteers ( matched by age , sex , and weight ) .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Valsartan : No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine , atenolol , cimetidine , digoxin , furosemide , glyburide , hydrochlorothiazide , or indomethacin .
The valsartan - atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component , but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone .
Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time - course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin .
Transporters The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2 .
Coadministration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter ( rifampin , cyclosporine ) or efflux transporter ( ritonavir ) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Drugs That Alter Gastrointestinal Motility The bioavailability of thiazide - type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents ( e . g . , atropine , biperiden ) , apparently due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate .
Conversely , pro - kinetic drugs may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide diuretics .
Cholestyramine In a dedicated drug interaction study , administration of cholestyramine 2 hours before hydrochlorothiazide resulted in a 70 % reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
Further , administration of hydrochlorothiazide 2 hours before cholestyramine resulted in 35 % reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
Antineoplastic agents ( e . g . Cyclophosphamide , Methotrexate ) Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may reduce renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
However , these studies have been conducted for valsartan as well as hydrochlorothiazide alone .
Based on the preclinical safety and human pharmacokinetic studies , there is no indication of any adverse interaction between valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Valsartan There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when valsartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years at doses up to 160 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses in mice and rats are about 2 . 6 and 6 times , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2basis ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
Mutagenicity assays did not reveal any valsartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella ( Ames ) and E . coli ; a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells ; a cytogenetic test with Chinese hamster ovary cells ; and a rat micronucleus test .
Valsartan had no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of male or female rats at oral doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
This dose is about 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2basis ( Calculations assume an oral dose of 320 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1300 mcg / mL , and in the Aspergillus Nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
These doses of hydrochlorothiazide in mice and rats represent 19 and 1 . 5 times , respectively , the MRHD on a mg / m2basis .
( Calculations assume an oral dose of 25 mg / day and a 60 - kg patient . )
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension Valsartan - Hydrochlorothiazide In controlled clinical trials including over 7600 patients , 4372 patients were exposed to valsartan ( 80 , 160 , and 320 mg ) and concomitant hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 and 25 mg ) .
Two factorial trials compared various combinations of 80 / 12 . 5 mg , 80 / 25 mg , 160 / 12 . 5 mg , 160 / 25 mg , 320 / 12 . 5 mg , and 320 / 25 mg with their respective components and placebo .
The combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in additive placebo - adjusted decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at trough of 14 to 21 / 8 to 11 mmHg at 80 / 12 . 5 mg to 320 / 25 mg , compared to 7 to 10 / 4 to 5 mmHg for valsartan 80 mg to 320 mg and 5 to 11 / 2 to 5 mmHg for hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg to 25 mg , alone .
Three other controlled trials investigated the addition of hydrochlorothiazide to patients who did not respond adequately to valsartan 80 mg to valsartan 320 mg , resulted in the additional lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 4 to 12 / 2 to 5 mmHg .
The maximal antihypertensive effect was attained 4 weeks after the initiation of therapy , the first time point at which blood pressure was measured in these trials .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) , the effect of the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide appeared to be maintained for up to 2 years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age or gender .
The overall response to the combination was similar for black and non - black patients .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in patients treated with the combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled trials .
There are no trials of the valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide combination tablet demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but the hydrochlorothiazide component and several ARBs , which are the same pharmacological class as the valsartan component , have demonstrated such benefits .
Valsartan The antihypertensive effects of valsartan were demonstrated principally in 7 placebo - controlled , 4 - to 12 - week trials ( 1 in patients over 65 years ) of dosages from 10 to 320 mg / day in patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures of 95 to 115 mmHg .
The studies allowed comparison of once - daily and twice - daily regimens of 160 mg / day ; comparison of peak and trough effects ; comparison ( in pooled data ) of response by gender , age , and race ; and evaluation of incremental effects of hydrochlorothiazide .
Administration of valsartan to patients with essential hypertension results in a significant reduction of sitting , supine , and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure , usually with little or no orthostatic change .
In most patients , after administration of a single oral dose , onset of antihypertensive activity occurs at approximately 2 hours , and maximum reduction of blood pressure is achieved within 6 hours .
The antihypertensive effect persists for 24 hours after dosing , but there is a decrease from peak effect at lower doses ( 40 mg ) presumably reflecting loss of inhibition of angiotensin II .
At higher doses , however ( 160 mg ) , there is little difference in peak and trough effect .
During repeated dosing , the reduction in blood pressure with any dose is substantially present within 2 weeks , and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks .
In long - term follow - up studies ( without placebo control ) , the effect of valsartan appeared to be maintained for up to 2 years .
The antihypertensive effect is independent of age , gender or race .
The latter finding regarding race is based on pooled data and should be viewed with caution , because antihypertensive drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system ( that is , ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II blockers ) have generally been found to be less effective in low - renin hypertensives ( frequently blacks ) than in high - renin hypertensives ( frequently whites ) .
In pooled , randomized , controlled trials of valsartan that included a total of 140 blacks and 830 whites , valsartan and an ACE - inhibitor control were generally at least as effective in blacks as whites .
The explanation for this difference from previous findings is unclear .
Abrupt withdrawal of valsartan has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
The 7 studies of valsartan monotherapy included over 2000 patients randomized to various doses of valsartan and about 800 patients randomized to placebo .
Doses below 80 mg were not consistently distinguished from those of placebo at trough , but doses of 80 , 160 and 320 mg produced dose - related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure , with the difference from placebo of approximately 6 to 9 / 3 to 5 mmHg at 80 to 160 mg and 9 / 6 mmHg at 320 mg .
Patients with an inadequate response to 80 mg once daily were titrated to either 160 mg once daily or 80 mg twice daily , which resulted in a similar response in both groups .
In another 4 - week study , 1876 patients randomized to valsartan 320 mg once daily had an incremental blood pressure reduction 3 / 1 mmHg lower than did 1900 patients randomized to valsartan 160 mg once daily .
In controlled trials , the antihypertensive effect of once daily valsartan 80 mg was similar to that of once daily enalapril 20 mg or once daily lisinopril 10 mg .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in valsartan - treated patients in controlled trials .
14 . 2 Initial Therapy - Hypertension The safety and efficacy of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for patients with severe hypertension ( defined as a sitting diastolic blood pressure ≥ 110 mmHg and systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg off all antihypertensive therapy ) were studied in a 6 - week multicenter , randomized , double - blind study .
Patients were randomized to either valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide ( valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 160 / 12 . 5 mg once daily ) or to valsartan ( 160 mg once daily ) and followed for blood pressure response .
Patients were force - titrated at 2 - week intervals .
Patients on combination therapy were subsequently titrated to 160 / 25 mg followed by 320 / 25 mg valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide .
Patients on monotherapy were subsequently titrated to 320 mg valsartan followed by a titration to 320 mg valsartan to maintain the blind .
The study randomized 608 patients , including 261 ( 43 % ) females , 147 ( 24 % ) blacks , and 75 ( 12 % ) ≥ 65 years of age .
The mean blood pressure at baseline for the total population was 168 / 112 mmHg .
The mean age was 52 years .
After 4 weeks of therapy , reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 9 / 5 mmHg greater in the group treated with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide compared to valsartan .
Similar trends were seen when the patients were grouped according to gender , race , or age .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 53002 - 1785 NDC : 53002 - 1785 - 3 30 TABLET , FILM COATED in a BOTTLE NDC : 53002 - 1785 - 9 90 TABLET , FILM COATED in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Pregnancy Advise female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Ask patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to their healthcare provider .
Tell patients that if syncope occurs , to discontinue valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets until the physician has been consulted .
Caution all patients that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Potassium Supplements Advise patients not to use salt substitutes without consulting their healthcare provider [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa - 403 722 INDIA Revised : October 01 , 2020 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling PATIENT INFORMATION Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP ( val - SAR - tan and HYE - droe - KLOR - oh - THYE - a - zide ) Rx only Read the Patient Information that comes with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition and treatment .
If you have any questions about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause harm or death to an unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
If you get pregnant while taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , tell your doctor right away .
What are valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contains 2 prescription medicines : • valsartan , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) • hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , a water pill ( diuretic ) Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used to lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults - • when 1 medicine to lower your high blood pressure is not enough .
• as the first medicine to lower high blood pressure if your doctor decides you are likely to need more than 1 medicine .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets have not been studied in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Do not take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets if you : • are allergic to any of the ingredients in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• make less urine due to kidney problems • are allergic to medicines that contain sulfonamides .
What should I tell my doctor before taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See " What is the most important information I should know about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? "
• are breastfeeding .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide passes into breast milk .
It is not known if valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets effects your breastfed baby or milk production .
Do not breastfeed while you are taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• have liver problems • have kidney problems • have or had gallstones • have Lupus • have low levels of potassium ( with or without symptoms such as muscle weakness , muscle spasms , abnormal heart rhythm ) or magnesium in your blood • have high levels of calcium in your blood ( with or without symptoms such as nausea , vomiting , constipation , stomach pain , frequent urination , thirst , muscle weakness and twitching ) • have high levels of uric acid in the blood .
• have ever had a reaction called angioedema to another blood pressure medication .
Angioedema causes swelling of the face , lips , tongue , throat and may cause difficulty breathing Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines and valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets could affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Especially , tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( diuretics ) • potassium supplements .
Your doctor may check the amount of potassium in your blood periodically .
• a salt substitute .
Your doctor may check the amount of potassium in your blood periodically .
• antidiabetic medicines including insulin • narcotic pain medicines • sleeping pills • lithium , a medicine used in some types of depression ( Eskalith ® , Lithobid ® , Lithium Carbonate , Lithium Citrate ) • aspirin or other medicines called non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , like ibuprofen or naproxen • digoxin or other digitalis glycosides ( a heart medicine ) • muscle relaxants ( medicines used during operations ) • certain cancer medicines , like cyclophosphamide or methotrexate • certain antibiotics ( rifamycin group ) , a drug used to protect against transplant rejection ( cyclosporine ) or an antiretroviral drug used to treat HIV / AIDS infection ( ritonavir ) .
These drugs may increase the effect of valsartan .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking one of these medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show to your doctor and pharmacist when a new medicine is prescribed .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you start taking any new medicine .
Your doctor or pharmacist will know what medicines are safe to take together .
How should I take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
• Take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets once each day .
• Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
You should not take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy .
See " What is the most important information I should know about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? "
What are the possible side effects of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may cause serious side effects including : • Harm to an unborn baby causing injury and even death .
See " What is the most important information I should know about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? "
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you : • take water pills • are on a low salt diet • get dialysis treatments • have heart problems • get sick with vomiting or diarrhea • drink alcohol Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• Allergic reactions .
People with and without allergy problems or asthma who take valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may get allergic reactions .
• Worsening of Lupus .
Hydrochlorothiazide , one of the medicines in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may cause Lupus to become active or worse .
• Fluid and electrolyte ( salt ) problems .
Tell your doctor about any of the following signs and symptoms of fluid and electrolyte problems : • dry mouth • thirst • lack of energy ( lethargic ) • weakness • drowsiness • restlessness • confusion • seizures • muscle pain or cramps • muscle fatigue • very low urine output • fast heartbeat • nausea and vomiting • Kidney problems .
Kidney problems may become worse in people that already have kidney disease .
Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and may need a lower dose of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
If you have heart failure , your doctor should check your kidney function before prescribing valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• Skin rash .
Call your doctor right away if you have an unusual skin rash .
• Eye problems .
One of the medicines in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause eye problems that may lead to vision loss .
Symptoms of eye problems can happen within hours to weeks of starting valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Tell your doctor right away if you have : • decrease in vision • eye pain Protect your skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening , as one of the medicines in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may cause non - melanoma skin cancer .
Other side effects were generally mild and brief .
They generally have not caused patients to stop taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effect to Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 .
How do I store valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
• Store valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets at room temperature between 59ºF to 86ºF ( 15ºC to 30ºC ) .
• Keep valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in a closed container in a dry place .
Keep valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information about valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , go to www . lupinpharmaceuticals . com or call 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 .
What are the ingredients in valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Active ingredients : Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , polyethylene glycol , titanium dioxide and additional colorants as below .
80 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow 160 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide red 160 mg / 25 mg : iron oxide black , iron oxide red and iron oxide yellow 320 mg / 12 . 5 mg : iron oxide black and iron oxide red 320 mg / 25 mg : iron oxide yellow What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can help your blood vessels relax and reduce the amount of water in your body so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood throughout the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
If high blood pressure is not treated , it can lead to stroke , heart attack , heart failure , kidney failure , and vision problems .
The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . or its products .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa - 403 722 INDIA Revised : October 2020 ID : # 266430 Valsartan / HCTZ 160 - 25 mg Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
