Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 . 0 % ....................... Purpose ........................ Acne Treatment Uses • for the treatment of acne • helps clear up blackheads • helps prevent new blackheads from forming Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , use only one topical acne medication at a time unless directed by a health care practitioner .
Stop use and ask a health care practitioner if rash or irritation develops or increases .
Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Keep out of direct sunlight .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying the product .
• Moisten cotton ball and cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• Gently work moistened cotton ball over face and neck .
Do not rinse .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two to three times daily if needed or as directed by a health care practitioner .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
DO NOT USE IF SEAL IS BROKEN .
Inactive ingredients SD alcohol 40 - B , water / eau , propylene glycol , PEG - 6 , potassium hydroxide , benzophenone - 1 , parfum / fragrance , BHT , disodium EDTA , lysine carboxymethyl cysteinate , isododecane , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , sodium C8 - 16 isoalkylsuccinyl lactoglobulin sulfonate , polystyrene / hydrogenated polyisopentene copolymer , chamomilla recutita ( matricaria ) flower extract , blue 1 / CI 42090 , red 33 / CI 17200 .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - FOR - AVON or 1 - 800 - 265 - AVON in Canada .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
