Active ingredients ( in each tablet ) Aluminum hydroxide ( equivalent to dried gel , USP ) 200 mg Magnesium hydroxide 200 mg Simethicone 25 mg Purpose Antacid Antacid Antigas Uses Relieves : • ▪ heartburn • ▪ sour stomach • ▪ acid indigestion • ▪ bloating , pressure and discomfort commonly referred to as gas Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • ▪ kidney disease • ▪ a magnesium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug .
Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks .
If Pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • ▪ adults and children 12 years of age and older : chew 2 to 4 tablets .
Repeat hourly if symptoms return , or as directed by a physician .
• ▪ children under 12 years of age : Ask a doctor .
• ▪ do not take more than 12 tablets in a 24 - hour period , or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks , except under the advice and supervision of a physician .
Other information • ▪ each tablet contains : magnesium 84 mg • ▪ store at room temperature • ▪ keep tightly closed and dry Inactive ingredients dextrose , flavors , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , silica , sucralose Questions or comments ?
Call : ( 800 ) - 616 - 2471 Principal Display Panel MAJOR ® Mintox ™ Plus Tabs ANTACID PLUS ANTI - GAS FAST RELIEF OF : • • ACID INDIGESTION • • HEARTBURN • • SOUR STOMACH • • GAS Lemon Mint Naturally and Artificially Flavored GREAT TASTE !
100 TABLETS Compare to the Active Ingredients in Maalox ® Plus * Distributed by : Major ® Pharmaceuticals 17177 N Laurel park drive , Suite 233 Livonia , MI 48152 USA * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Novartis Consumer Health Inc , the distributor of Maalox ® plus .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
