[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredient Purpose Tolnaftate 1 % Anti - fungal Uses • proven effective in the treatment of most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • helps prevent most athlete ’ s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , burning and cracking .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental ingestion , contact a physician , emergency medical care facility or Poison Control Center immediately for advice .
Directions : • Clean affected area with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly .
• Apply a thin layer of Maximum Strength Antifungal over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
• The brush applicator allows for easy application to skin around the nail .
• Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• For athlete ’ s foot pay special attention to spaces between the toes .
• For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
• For toe fungus , apply to skin around nails .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
• This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
• Supervise children in the use of this product .
Other information Store at room temperature 15º − 30ºC ( 59º − 86ºF ) .
Inactive ingredients aloe vera ( aloe barbadensis ) gel , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) , dimethicone , DMDM hydantoin , edetate disodium dihydrate , eucalyptol , glycerin , glyceryl stearate SE , lavender oil , mineral oil , olive oil , PEG - 100 stearate , phenoxetol , propylene glycol , tea tree oil , titanium dioxide , alpha tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , xanthan gum , water PACKAGE LABEL THE ONLY PRODUCT THAT 1 .
Improves Nail Appearance AND 2 .
Kills Fungus Around the Nail NEW Opti - Nail ™ 2 - in - 1 FUNGAL NAIL REPAIR + ANTI - FUNGAL 1 Improves Nail Appearance Fungal Nail Repair Formula Apply directly on nail Visible Results Starting in Just 2 DAYS Net Wt 5 mL ( . 169 fl oz ) 2 Kills Fungus Around Nail Maximum Strength Antifungal ( 1 % Tolnaftate ) Apply to skin around nail Clinically Proven to Cure & Prevent Fungal Infections * Net Wt 5 mL ( . 169 fl oz ) INCLUDES : 1 % Tolnaftate Antifungal Solution AND Fungal Nail Repair Formula * restores skin health + cures most athlete ' s foot Step 1 Apply Fungal Nail Repair Formula Directly On Nail Clinically Proven Formula that results In Healthier Looking Nails ✓ Visible Results Starting in Just 2 Days ✓ Triple Action Formula Lightens , Smooths , and Moisturizes ✓ Easy to Apply & Dries Quickly Apply twice a day for 4 weeks , then use once daily as needed .
Fungal Nail Repair Formula Ingredients : Ethyl lactate , glycerin , water , lactic acid , resacetophenone , citric acid ( if needed for pH balance ) .
For External Use only .
Apply only to nail surface .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucus membranes .
Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product .
Keep out of reach of children .
Diabetics should ask a doctor before use .
Sunburn Alert : may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
See package insert for full Opti - Nail 2 - 1 product instructions Do not use if neck band is missing or broken K0322 Fungal Nail Repair Formula does not treat , cure , or prevent fungal infections .
© 2022 Kramer Laboratories , Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 824 - 4894 Patent pending Step 2 Apply Maximum Strength Antifungal On Skin Around Nail Clinically Proven to Cure & Prevent Fungal Infections ✓ Kills Fungus ✓ Stops Itching and Burning ✓ Restores Skin Health + Cures Most Athletes Foot Maximum Strength Anti - Fungal not for nail or scalp fungus .
Cures most athlete ' s foot .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Opti - Nail ™ 2 - in - 1 Fungal Nail Repair + Antifungal Directions For Use Always apply step 1 BEFORE Step 2 First clean affected areas with soap and water and dry thoroughly Step 1 Apply Fungal Nail Repair Formula ( Green side ) to Nail Surface Unscrew the green cap .
Using the applicator , apply a thin layer of solution directly on entire affected nail surface twice daily ( morning and evening ) .
( Solution looks clear . )
Nail surface will appear wet after application .
Avoid applying to skin around the nail .
After applying , recap tightly and allow treated nails ( s ) to dry for a few minutes before beginning Step 2 .
Apply twice a day for 4 weeks , then use once daily as needed to maintain look .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with skin .
Apply only to nail surface .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse cautiously with water for several minutes .
May cause irritation if applied to skin .
Discontinue use in the event of an allergic reaction or irritation .
Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in the product .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid inhalation .
Diabetics should ask doctor before use .
Sunburn Alert : This product contains alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product for a week afterwards .
Product is flammable , do not use near an open flame .
Fungal Nail Repair Formula Ingredients : Ethyl lactate , glycerin , water , lactic acid , resacetophenone , citric acid ( if needed for pH balance ) .
Fungal Nail Repair Formula does not treat , cure , or prevent fungal infections Step 2 Apply Maximum Strength Antifungal ( Blue side ) to Skin Around Nail Unscrew the blue cap .
Using the applicator , apply a thin layer of medicine to skin around nails twice daily ( morning and evening ) .
( Medicine looks white to off - white . )
After applying , recap tightly and allow treated area to dry for a few minutes before putting on socks and shoes .
Apply twice a day for 4 weeks .
For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs of it there is no improvement within 4 weeks .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , contact a physician , emergency medical care facility or Poison Control Center immediately for advice .
Maximum Strength Antifungal : Active ingredient : Tolnaftate 1 % Inactive ingredients : aloe vera ( aloe barbadensis ) gel , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) , dimethicone , DMDM hydantoin , edetate disodium dihydrate , eucalyptol , glycerin , glyceryl stearate SE , lavender oil , mineral oil , olive oil , PEG - 100 stearate , phenoxetol , propylene glycol , tea tree oil , titanium dioxide , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , xanthan gum , water Maximum Strength Antifungal is not effective for nail or scalp fungus .
Cures most athlete ' s foot .
© 2022 Kramer Laboratories , Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 824 - 4894 Patent pending Store at room temperature 15 ° − 30 ° C ( 59 ° − 86 ° F ) K0322 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
