SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Lincomycin and other antibacterial drugs , Lincomycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
BOXED WARNINIG WARNING Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Lincomycin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because lincomycin therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . diffficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION Lincomycin Injection is a sterile solution which contains lincomycin hydrochloride which is the monohydrated salt of lincomycin , a substance produced by the growth of a member of the lincolnensis group of Streptomyces lincolnensis ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
The chemical name for lincomycin hydrochloride is Methyl 6 , 8 - dideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - D - erythro - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside monohydrochloride monohydrate .
The molecular formula of lincomycin hydrochloride is C18H34N2O6S . HCl . H2O and the molecular weight is 461 . 01 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lincomycin hydrochloride is a white or practically white , crystalline powder and is odorless or has a faint odor .
Its solutions are acid and are dextrorotatory .
Lincomycin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water ; soluble in dimethylformamide and very slightly soluble in acetone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMAcOLOGY Intramuscular administration of a single dose of 600 mg of lincomycin produces average peak serum concentrations of 11 . 6 µg / mL at 60 minutes and maintains therapeutic concentrations for 17 to 20 hours for most susceptible gram - positive organisms .
Urinary excretion after this dose ranges from 1 . 8 to 24 . 8 percent ( mean : 17 . 3 percent ) .
A two hour intravenous infusion of 600 mg of lincomycin achieves average peak serum concentrations of 15 . 9 µg / mL and yields therapeutic concentrations for 14 hours for most susceptible gram - positive organisms .
Urinary excretion ranges from 4 . 9 to 30 . 3 percent ( mean : 13 . 8 percent ) .
The biological half - life after intramuscular or intravenous administration is 5 . 4 ± 1 . 0 hours .
The serum half - life of lincomycin may be prolonged in patients with severe impairment of renal function compared to patients with normal renal function .
In patients with abnormal hepatic function , serum half - life may be twofold longer than in patients with normal hepatic function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing lincomycin from the serum .
Tissue level concentrations indicate that bile is an important route of excretion .
Significant concentrations have been demonstrated in the majority of body tissues .
Although lincomycin appears to diffuse into cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) , concentrations of lincomycin in the CSF appear inadequate for the treatment of meningitis .
Microbiology : Lincomycin has been shown to be active against most strains of the following organisms both in vitro and in clinical infections : ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus pneumoniae The following in vitro data are available ; but their clinical significance is unknown .
Lincomycin has been shown to be active in vitro against the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of Lincomycin in treating clinical infections due to these organisms have not been established in adequate and well controlled trials .
Gram - positive bacteria :: Corynebacterium diphtheriae Streptococcus pyogenes Viridans group streptococci Anaerobic bacteria : Clostridium tetani Clostridium perfringens Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Resistance is most often due to methylation of specific nucleotides in the 23 S RNA of the 50 S ribosomal subunit , which can determine cross resistance to macrolides and streptogramins B ( MLS phenotype ) .
Macrolide - resistant isolates of these organisms should be tested for inducible resistance to lincomycin / clindamycin using the D - zone test or other appropriate method .
There are currently no antimicrobial susceptibility testing ( AST ) interpretive criteria for Lincomycin .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in patients previously found to be hypersensitive to lincomycin or clindamycin .
WARNINGS See WARNING Box .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Lincomycin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
Hypersensitivity Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and erythema multiforme , have been reported with use of Lincomycin Injection .
If an allergic reaction to Lincomycin occurs , discontinue the drug .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity in Pediatric Patients ( " Gasping Syndrome " ) Lincomycin Injection Sterile Solution contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events , including the " gasping syndrome " , and death in pediatric patients .
Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the " gasping syndrome " , the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidney ' s capacity to detoxify the chemical .
Premature and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity .
Use in Meningitis — Although lincomycin appears to diffuse into cerebrospinal fluid , levels of lincomycin in the CSF may be inadequate for the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When Lincomycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Lincomycin should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Lincomycin should be used with caution in patients with a history of asthma or significant allergies .
Certain infections may require incision and drainage or other indicated surgical procedures in addition to antibacterial therapy .
The use of Lincomycin may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms — particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
When patients with pre - existing monilial infections require therapy with Lincomycin , concomitant antimonilial treatment should be given .
The serum half - life of lincomycin may be prolonged in patients with severe impairment of renal function compared to patients with normal renal function .
In patients with abnormal hepatic function , serum half - life may be twofold longer than in patients with normal hepatic function .
Patients with severe impairment of renal function and / or abnormal hepatic function should be dosed with caution and serum lincomycin levels monitored during high - dose therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Section . )
Lincomycin should not be injected intravenously undiluted as a bolus , but should be infused over at least 60 minutes as directed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Section .
Prescribing Lincomycin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Lincomycin should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Lincomycin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Lincomycin or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterial , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterial .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy with Lincomycin , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Lincomycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuro - muscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used in caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism between lincomycin and erythromycin in vitro has been demonstrated .
Because of the possible clinical significance , the two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : The carcinogenic potential of lincomycin has not been evaluated .
Lincomycin was not found to be mutagenic in the Ames Salmonella reversion assay or the V79 Chinese hamster lung cells at the HGPRT locus .
It did not induce DNA strand breaks in V79 Chinese hamster lung cells as measured by alkaline elution or chromosomal abnormalities in cultured human lymphocytes .
In vivo , lincomycin was negative in both the rat and mouse micronucleus assays and it did not induce sex - linked recessive lethal mutations in the offspring of male Drosophila .
However , lincomycin did cause unscheduled DNA syntheses in freshly isolated rat hepatocytes .
Impairment of fertility was not observed in male or female rats given oral 300 mg / kg doses of lincomycin ( 0 . 36 times the highest recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C Lincomycin Sterile Solution contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol can cross the placenta .
See WARNINGS .
Teratogenic Effects : There are no studies on the teratogenic potential of lincomycin in animals or adequate and well - controlled studies of pregnant women .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats using oral doses of lincomycin up to 1000 mg / kg ( 1 . 2 times the maximum daily human dose based on mg / m ² ) and have revealed no adverse effects on survival of offspring from birth to weaning .
Nursing Mothers Lincomycin has been reported to appear in human milk in concentrations of 0 . 5 to 2 . 4 mcg / mL .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Lincomycin Injection , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing , or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Lincomycin Injection , USP contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
Benzyl alcohol has been associated with a fatal " Gasping Syndrome " in premature infants .
See WARNINGS .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of one month have not been established .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Section . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of lincomycin and are listed by System Organ Class .
Frequencies are defined as : commom ( ≥ 1 % and < 10 % ) uncommon ( ≥ 0 . 1 % and < 1 % ) , rare ( ≥ 0 . 01 % and < 0 . 1 % ) and not known ( cannot be estimated from the available data ) .
Gastrointestinal disorders Common : persistent diarrhea ( 4 . 3 % ) , nausea ( 1 . 8 % ) , vomiting ( 1 . 6 % ) Rare : stomatitis ( 0 . 04 % ) Not known : glossitis , abdominal discomfort , and pruritus Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Uncommon : rash ( 0 . 8 % ) , urticaria ( 0 . 1 % ) Rare : pruritus ( 0 . 4 % ) Infections and infestations Uncommon : vaginal infection ( 0 . 12 % ) Not known : pseudomembranous colitis , Clostridium difficile colitis ( see WARNINGS ) Blood and lymphatic system disorders Not known : pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , leukopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenic purpura Immune system disorders Not known : anaphylactic reaction ( see WARNINGS ) angioedema , serum sickness Hepatobiliary disorders Not known : jaundice , liver function test abnormal , transaminases increased Renal and urinary disorders Not known : renal impairment , oliguria , proteinuria , azotemia ¹ No direct relationship of LINCOCIN to renal damage has been established .
Cardiac disorders Not known : cardio - respiratory arrest ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Vascular disorders Not known : hypotension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , thrombophlebitis ² ² Event has been reported with intravenous injection .
Ear and labyrinth disorders Not known : vertigo , tinnitus Not known : injection site abscess sterile ³ , injection site induration ³ , injection site pain ³ , injection site irritation ³ ³ Reported with intramuscular injection .
OVERDOSAGE Serum levels of lincomycin are not appreciably affected by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibacterial should be discontinued .
( See WARNING box . )
INTRAMUSCULAR - Adults : Serious infections — 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscularly every 24 hours .
More severe infections — 600 mg ( 2 mL ) intramuscularly every 12 hours or more often . Pediatric patients over 1 month of age : Serious infections — one intramuscular injection of 10 mg / kg ( 5 mg / lb ) every 24 hours .
More severe infections — one intramuscular injection of 10 mg / kg ( 5 mg / lb ) every 12 hours or more often .
INTRAVENOUS Adults : The intravenous dose will be determined by the severity of the infection .
For serious infections doses of 600 mg of lincomycin ( 2 mL of Lincomycin Injection ) to 1 gram are given every 8 to 12 hours .
For more severe infections these doses may have to be increased .
In life - threatening situations , daily intravenous doses of as much as 8 grams have been given .
Intravenous doses are given on the basis of 1 gram of lincomycin diluted in not less than 100 mL of appropriate solution ( see PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITIES ) and infused over a period of not less than one hour .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] These doses may be repeated as often as required to the limit of the maximum recommended daily dose of 8 grams of lincomycin .
Pediatric patients over 1 month of age : 10 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 5 to 10 mg / lb / day ) depending on the severity of the infection may be infused in divided doses as described above for adults .
NOTE : Severe cardiopulmonary reactions have occurred when this drug has been given at greater than the recommended concentration and rate .
SUBCONJUNCTIVAL INJECTION - 0 . 25 mL ( 75 mg ) injected subconjunctivally will result in ocular fluid levels of antibacterial ( lasting for at least 5 hours ) with MICs sufficient for most susceptible pathogens .
Patients with diminished renal function : When therapy with Lincomycin is required in individuals with severe impairment of renal function , an appropriate dose is 25 to 30 % of that recommended for patients with normally functioning kidneys .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED Lincomycin Injection , USP is available in the following strength and package sizes : 300 mg / mL 2 mL Vials — NDC 39822 - 0350 - 1 Packaged as 10 vials per carton NDC 39822 - 0350 - 2 10 mL Vials — NDC 39822 - 0353 - 5 Packaged as 10 vials per carton NDC 39822 - 0353 - 6 Each mL of Lincomycin Injection , USP contains lincomycin hydrochloride equivalent to lincomycin 300 mg ; also benzyl alcohol , 9 . 45 mg added as preservative .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY In vivo experimental animal studies demonstrated the effectiveness of LINCOMYCIN preparations ( lincomycin ) in protecting animals infected with Streptococcus viridans , β - hemolytic Streptococcus , Staphylococcus aureus , Diplococcus pneumoniae and Leptospira pomona .
It was ineffective in Klebsiella , Pasteurella , Pseudomonas , Salmonella and Shigella infections .
CLINICAL STUDIES Experience with 345 obstetrical patients receiving this drug revealed no ill effects related to pregnancy .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITIES Physically compatible for 24 hours at room temperature unless otherwise indicated .
Infusion Solutions 5 % Dextrose Injection 10 % Dextrose Injection 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection 10 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer ' s Injection 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection Travert ® 10 % - Electrolyte No . 1 Dextran in Saline 6 % w / v Vitamins in Infusion Solutions B - Complex B - Complex with Ascorbic Acid Antibacterial in Infusion Solutions Penicillin G Sodium ( Satisfactory for 4 hours ) Cephalothin Tetracycline HCl Cephaloridine Colistimethate ( Satisfactory for 4 hours ) Ampicillin Methicillin Chloramphenicol Polymyxin B Sulfate Physically Incompatible with : Novobiocin Kanamycin IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT THE COMPATIBLE AND INCOMPATIBLE DETERMINATIONS ARE PHYSICAL OBSERVATIONS ONLY , NOT CHEMICAL DETERMINATIONS .
ADEQUATE CLINICAL EVALUATION OF THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF THESE COMBINATIONS HAS NOT BEEN PERFORMED .
RX ONLY Manufactured in Germany Manufactured for : X - GEN Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 APRIL 2015 LC - PI - 07 SAMPLE PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
