DESCRIPTION 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in the Mini - Bag Plus Container System is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution for intravenous administration after admixture with a single dose powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug vial .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
The nominal pH is 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
Each 100 mL contains 900 mg of Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) .
The osmolarity is 308 mOsmol / L ( calculated ) .
Hydrochloric Acid , NF or Sodium Hydroxide , NF may be added for pH adjustment .
It contains 154 mEq / L sodium and 154 mEq / L chloride .
The Mini - Bag Plus Container is a standard diluent container with an integral drug vial adaptor .
It allows for drug admixture after connection to a single dose powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug vial having a 13 mm or 20 mm closure .
A breakaway seal in the tube between the vial adaptor and the container is broken to allow transfer of the diluent into the vial and reconstitution of the drug .
The Mini - Bag Plus product mechanically prohibits the transfer of contaminants into and out of the system during and after docking , minimizing environmental and personal exposure .
The reconstituted drug is then transferred from the vial into the container diluent and mixed to result in an admixture for delivery to the patient .
The VIAFLEX Plastic Container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts .
However , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes and may also be used as diluent for reconstitution of a powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug product packaged in a vial with a 13 mm or 20 mm closure .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity and infusion reactions , including hypotension , pyrexia , tremor , chills , urticaria , rash , and pruritus have been reported with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Stop the infusion immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction develop , such as tachycardia , chest pain , dyspnea and flushing .
Appropriate therapeutic countermeasures must be instituted as clinically indicated .
Electrolyte Imbalances Fluid Overload Depending on the volume and rate of infusion , and the patient ’ s underlying clinical condition , the intravenous administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fluid distrurbance such as overhydration / hypervolemia and congested states , including pulmonary congestion and edema .
Avoid 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for fluid and / or solute overloading .
If use cannot be avoided , fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance , as needed and especially during prolonged use .
Hyponatremia 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may cause hyponatremia .
Hyponatremia can lead to acute hyponatremic encephalopathy characterized by headache , nausea , seizures , lethargy , and vomiting .
Patients with brain edema are at particular risk of severe , irreversible and life - threatening brain injury .
The risk of hospital - acquired hyponatremia is increased in patients with cardiac or pulmonary failure , and in patients with non - osmotic vasopressin release ( including SIADH ) treated with high volume of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The risk for hyponatremia is increased in pediatric patients , elderly patients , postoperative patients , in those with psychogenic polydipsia , and in patients treated with medications that increase the risk of hyponatremia ( such as diuretics , certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications ) .
See DRUG INTERACTIONS .
Patients at increased risk for developing complications of hyponatremia such as hyponatremic encephalopathy , include pediatric patients , women ( in particular pre - menopausal women ) , patients with hypoxemia , and patients with underlying central nervous system disease .
Avoid 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk for hyponatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hyponatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Brain adaptations reducing risk of cerebral edema make the brain vulnerable to injury when chronic hyponatremia is too rapidly corrected , which is known as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) .
To avoid complications , monitor serum sodium and chloride concentrations , fluid status , acid - base balance , and signs of neurologic complications .
Hypernatremia Hypernatremia may occur with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Conditions that may increase the risk of hypernatremia , fluid overload and edema ( central and peripheral ) , include patients with : primary hyperaldosteronism ; secondary hyperaldosteronism associated with , for example , hypertension , congestive heart failure , liver disease ( including cirrhosis ) , renal disease ( including renal artery stenosis , nephrosclerosis ) ; and pre - eclampsia .
Certain medications , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin , may also increase risk of sodium and fluid retention , see DRUG INTERACTIONS .
Avoid 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with , or at risk for , hypernatremia .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Rapid correction of hypernatremia is potentially dangerous with risk of serious neurologic complications .
Excessively rapid correction of hypernatremia is also associated with a risk for serious neurologic complications such as osmotic demyelination syndrome ( ODS ) with risk of seizures and cerebral edema .
For use only with a single dose powdered or liquid ( up to 10 mL ) drug vial with a 13 mm or 20 mm closure .
Do not administer unless drug is completely dissolved and drug vial is empty .
Do not remove drug vial at any time prior to or during administration .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Administration of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with or at risk of severe renal impairment , may result in hypernatremia and / or fluid overload ( see WARNINGS ) .
Avoid Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients with severe renal impairment or conditions that may cause sodium and / or potassium retention , fluid overload , or edema .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor patients with severe renal impairment for development of these adverse reactions .
Drug Interactions Other Products that Affect Fluid and / or Electrolyte Balance Administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention , may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload .
Avoid use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving such products , such as corticosteroids or corticotropin .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum electrolytes , fluid balance and acid - base balance .
Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be decreased during administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Monitor serum may result in increased lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use .
Other Drugs that Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Administration of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients treated concomitantly with medications associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia .
Avoid use of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in patients receiving products , such as diuretics , and certain antiepileptic and psychotropic medications .
Drugs that increase the vasopressin effect reduce renal electrolyte free water excretion and may also increase the risk of hyponatremia following treatment with intravenous fluids .
If use cannot be avoided , monitor serum sodium concentrations .
Pregnancy There are no adequate and well controlled studies with Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , in pregnant women and animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this drug .
Therefore , it is not known whether Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be given during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is present in human milk .
Because many drugs are present in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The use of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients is based on clinical practice .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Closely monitor plasma electrolyte concentrations in pediatric patients who may have impaired ability to regulate fluids and electrolytes .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may result in increased serum osmolality and risk of intracerebral hemorrhage .
Children ( including neonates and older children ) are at increased risk of developing hyponatremia as well as for developing hyponatremic encephalopathy .
Geriatric Use Geriatric patients are at increased risk of developing electrolyte imbalances .
Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Therefore , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Consider monitoring renal function in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Post - Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post - marketing experience during use of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP and include the following : Hypersensitivity reactions : hypersensitivity / infusion reactions , including hypotension , pyrexia , tremor , chills , urticaria , rash , and pruritus .
General disorders and administration site conditions : infusion site reactions , such as infusion site erythema , injection site streaking , burning sensation , and infusion site urticaria .
Metabolism and nutrition disorders : hypernatremia , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis , and hyponatremia , which may be symptomatic .
Nervous System Disorders : Hyponatremic encephalopathy .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of : • • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause hypernatremia .
• • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fluid overload ( which can lead to pulmonary and / or peripheral edema ) .
See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
When assessing an overdose , any additives in the solution must also be considered .
The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment .
Interventions include discontinuation of Sodium Chloride Injection , USP administration , dose reduction , and other measures as indicated for the specific clinical constellation ( e . g . , monitoring of fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid base balance ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions • • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
• • Do not connect flexible plastic containers in series in order to avoid air embolism due to possible residual air contained in the primary container .
• • Set the vent to the closed position on a vented intravenous administration set to prevent air embolism .
• • Use a dedicated line without any connections to avoid air embolism .
• • Do not pressurize intravenous solutions contained in flexible plastic containers to increase flow rates .
• • Prior to infusion , visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration .
The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , and container is undamaged .
Dosing Information The choice of product , dosage , volume , rate , and duration of administration is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient and concomitant therapy , and administration should be determined by a healthcare provider experienced in intravenous fluid therapy .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Visually inspect the container .
If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Prior to use , check that the vial adaptor cover is intact .
Check the solution container for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found or if the vial adaptor cover is not intact , discard product as sterility may be impaired .
To Assemble and Reconstitute See diagram for detailed instructions .
Mini - Bag Plus Container Directions Only For Single Dose Powdered or Liquid ( up to 10 mL ) Drug Vials with 13 mm or 20 mm Closures Use Aseptic Technique [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile solution supplied in Mini - Bag Plus Containers .
The product is available as single packs ( 1 unit per overpouch ) .
Table 1 lists single pack presentation compatible with vials with a 13 mm closure , and Table 2 lists single pack presentation compatible with vials with a 20 mm closure .
Table 1 .
Presentations of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Compatible with Vials with a 13 mm ClosureProduct Description Size Vial Adaptor Size Configuration Code NDC 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 50 mL 13 mm single pack EZPB0038LF O338 - 0160 - 01 100 mL 13 mm single pack EZPB0039LF 0338 - 0162 - 01 Table 2 .
Presentations of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Compatible with Vials with a 20 mm ClosureProduct Description Size Vial Adaptor Size Configuration Code NDC 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 50 mL 20 mm single pack EZPB0042LF O338 - 0164 - 01 100 mL 20 mm single pack EZPB0043LF 0338 - 0166 - 01 Minimize exposure of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection to heat .
Avoid excessive heat .
Store at room temperature ( 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ) .
Manufactured by , Packed by , Distributed by : Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Baxter , Mini - Bag Plus and Viaflex are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
CB - 30 - 02 - 787 Rev . December 2022 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0038LF NDC 0338 - 0160 - 01 50 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP MINI - BAG Plus Single Dose Container FOR USE WITH 13 mm VIAL 1 Symbol 13 mm VIAL Each 50 mL contains 450 mg Sodium Chloride USP mEq / 50 mL Sodium 8 Chloride 8 Sterile See prescribing information Additive compatibility consult pharmacist For intravenous use Store at Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Avoid Excessive Heat Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in Ireland CB - 35 - 05 - 005 ( 1 ) Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303380160013 Lot Exp [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0042LF NDC 0338 - 0164 - 01 50 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP MINI - BAG PLUS SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER FOR USE WITH 20 mm VIAL 1 Symbol 20 mm VIAL Each 50 mL contains 450 mg Sodium Chloride USP mEq / 50 mL Sodium 8 Chloride 8 Sterile See prescribing information Additive compatibility consult pharmacist For intravenous use Store at Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Avoid Excessive Heat Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in Ireland CB - 35 - 05 - 006 ( 1 ) Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303380164011 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0039LF NDC 0338 - 0162 - 01 1000 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP MINI - BAG PLUS SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER FOR USE WITH 13 mm VIAL 1 Symbol 13 mm VIAL Each 100 mL contains 900 mg Sodium Chloride USP mEq / 100 mL Sodium 15 Chloride 15 Sterile See prescribing information Additive compatibility consult pharmacist For intravenous use Store at Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Avoid Excessive Heat Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in Ireland CB - 35 - 05 - 007 ( 1 ) Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303380162017 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] BREAK SEAL AND MIX BEFORE USE EZPB0043LF NDC 0338 - 0166 - 01 1000 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP MINI - BAG PLUS SINGLE DOSE CONTAINER FOR USE WITH 20 mm VIAL 1 Symbol 20 mm VIAL Each 100 mL contains 900 mg Sodium Chloride USP mEq / 100 mL Sodium 15 Chloride 15 Sterile See prescribing information Additive compatibility consult pharmacist For intravenous use Store at Room Temperature ( 25 ° C ) Avoid Excessive Heat Rx Only Baxter Logo Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in Ireland CB - 35 - 05 - 008 ( 1 ) Bar Code ( 01 ) 00303380166015 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
