DESCRIPTION E - Z - PASTE ® Barium Sulfate Esophageal Cream ( 60 % w / w ) is a barium sulfate cream for oral administration .
Each 100 g contains 60 g barium sulfate .
Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and , therefore , acts as a positive contrast and agent for radiographic studies .
The active ingredient is barium sulfate and its structural formula is BaSO4 .
Barium sulfate occurs as a fine , white , odorless , tasteless , bulky powder which is free from grittiness .
Its aqueous suspensions are neutral to litmus .
It is practically insoluble in water , solutions of acids and alkalies , and organic solvents .
Inactive Ingredients : carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid , ethyl vanillin , glycerin , methylparaben , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium citrate , and sorbitol solution .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and , therefore , acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
Barium sulfate is biologically inert and therefore , is not absorbed or metabolized by the body , and is eliminated unchanged from the body .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use in single contrast radiography of the esophagus , pharynx , hypopharynx and for cardiac series .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used in patients with known gastric or intestinal perforation or hypersensitivity to barium sulfate products .
WARNINGS Rarely , severe allergic reactions of an anaphylactoid nature , have been reported following administration of barium sulfate contrast agents .
Appropriately trained personnel and facilities should be available for emergency treatment of severe reactions and should remain available for at least 30 to 60 minutes following administration , since delayed reactions can occur .
PRECAUTIONS General Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the requisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , as evidenced by hay fever and eczema , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent , warrant special attention .
Caution should be exercised with the use of radiopaque media in severely debilitated patients and in those with marked hypertension or advanced cardiac disease .
Caution should be used during the administration of this product to patients with a history of food aspiration or to patients in whom integrity of the swallowing mechanism is unknown .
If this product is aspirated into the larynx , further administration should be discontinued immediately .
After any barium study of the GI tract , it is important to rehydrate the patient as quickly as possible to prevent impaction of the bowel by barium sulfate .
To prevent barium sulfate impaction in the bowel , the use of mild laxatives such as milk of magnesia or lactulose , following completion of the examination may also be required .
These mild laxatives are recommended on a routine basis and in patients with a history of constipation unless contraindicated .
Use with caution with complete or nearly complete esophageal or gastric obstruction .
Information for Patients Before administration of this product patients should be instructed to : • Inform their physician if they are pregnant .
• Inform their physician if they are allergic to any drugs or food , or if they have had any prior reactions to barium sulfate products or other contrast agents used in x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
• Inform their physician about any other medications they are currently taking .
Drug Interactions The presence of barium sulfate formulations in the GI tract may alter the absorption of therapeutic agents taken concomitantly .
In order to minimize any potential change in absorption , the separate administration of barium sulfate from that of other agents should be considered .
Usage in Pregnancy Radiation is known to cause harm to the unborn fetus exposed in utero .
Therefore , radiographic procedures should only be used when , in the judgement of the physician , its use is deemed essential to the welfare of the pregnant patient .
Nursing Mothers Barium sulfate products may be used during lactation .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions , such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping , accompanying the use of barium sulfate formulations are infrequent and usually mild .
Severe reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) and fatalities ( approximately 1 in 10 , 000 , 000 ) have occurred .
Procedural complications are rare , but may include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , granuloma formation , intravasation , embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes , and fatalities .
It is of the utmost importance to be completely prepared to treat any such occurrence .
ALLERGIC REACTIONS Due to the increased likelihood of allergic reactions in atopic patients , it is important that a complete history of known and suspected allergies as well as allergic - like symptoms , e . g . , rhinitis , bron - chial asthma , eczema and urticaria , must be obtained prior to any medical procedure utilizing these products .
A mild allergic reaction would most likely include generalized pruritus , erythema or urticaria ( approximately 1 in 250 , 000 ) .
Such reactions will generally respond to an antihistamine such as 50 mg of diphenhydramine or its equivalent .
In the rarer , more serious reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) laryngeal edema , bronchospasm or hypotension could develop .
Severe reactions which may require emergency measures are often characterized by peripheral vasodilation , hypotension , reflex tachycardia , dyspnea , agitation , confusion and cyanosis progressing to unconsciousness .
Treatment should be initiated immediately with 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL of 1 : 1000 epinephrine subcutaneously .
If bronchospasm predominates , 0 . 25 to 0 . 50 grams of intravenous aminophylline should be given slowly .
Appropriate vasopressors might be required .
Adrenocorticosteroids , even if given intravenously , exert no significant effect on the acute allergic reactions for a few hours .
The administration of these agents should not be regarded as emergency measures for the treatment of allergic reactions .
Apprehensive patients may develop weakness , pallor , tinnitus , diaphoresis and bradycardia following the administration of any diagnostic agent .
Such reactions are usually non - allergic in nature and are best treated by having the patient lie flat for an additional 10 to 30 minutes under observation .
OVERDOSAGE On rare occasions following repeated administration , severe stomach cramps , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation may occur .
These are transitory in nature and are not considered serious .
Symptoms may be treated according to currently accepted standards of medical care .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual dose is one to four teaspoons as required .
Storage Store product at USP Controlled Room Temperature , 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
HOW SUPPLIED E - Z - PASTE ® is supplied in the following quantity : 454 g Tube , Cat .
No . 770 ; NDC 32909 - 770 - 01 Manufactured by E - Z - EM Canada Inc . for E - Z - EM , Inc . a subsidiary of Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 Tel : 1 - 516 - 333 - 8230 1 - 800 544 - 4624 rev . 10 / 17 CL80E01 TX1887 E - Z - Paste - Barium Sulfate Esophageal Cream NDC : 32909 - 770 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] E - Z - Paste - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
