Contraindications ( 4 ) 04 / 2017 Warnings and Precautions , Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions ( 5 . 1 ) 04 / 2017 WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue ramipril as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue ramipril as soon as possible ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 6 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ramipril capsules are an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics ( 1 . 1 ) .
Ramipril capsules are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post - myocardial infarction ( 1 . 3 ) .
1 . 1 Hypertension Ramipril capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Ramipril capsules may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
1 . 3 Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction Ramipril capsules are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction .
Administration of ramipril capsules to such patients have been shown to decrease the risk of death ( principally cardiovascular death ) and to decrease the risks of failure - related hospitalization and progression to severe / resistant heart failure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension : Initial dose is 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg once daily .
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response after 2 to 4 weeks of treatment .
The usual maintenance dose following titration is 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg daily as a single dose or equally divided doses ( 2 . 1 ) .
Heart failure post - myocardial infarction : Starting dose of 2 . 5 mg twice daily .
If patient becomes hypotensive at this dose , decrease dosage to 1 . 25 mg twice daily .
Increase dose as tolerated toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily , with dosage increases about 3 weeks apart ( 2 . 3 ) .
Dosage adjustment : See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations ( 2 . 5 ) .
2 . 1 Hypertension The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2 . 5 mg once a day .
Adjust dose according to blood pressure response .
The usual maintenance dosage range is 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses .
In some patients treated once daily , the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval .
In such patients , consider an increase in dosage or twice daily administration .
If blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril capsules alone , a diuretic can be added .
2 . 3 Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction For the treatment of post - myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure , the recommended starting dose of ramipril capsules is 2 . 5 mg twice daily ( 5 mg per day ) .
A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1 . 25 mg twice daily .
After one week at the starting dose , increase dose ( if tolerated ) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily , with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart .
After the initial dose of ramipril capsules , observe the patient under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour .
If possible , reduce the dose of any concomitant diuretic as this may diminish the likelihood of hypotension .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril capsules does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 General Dosing Information Generally , swallow ramipril capsules whole .
The ramipril capsule can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount ( about 4 oz . )
of applesauce or mixed in 4 oz .
( 120 mL ) of water or apple juice .
To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used , consume the mixture in its entirety .
The described mixtures can be pre - prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration .
Concomitant administration of ramipril capsules with potassium supplements , potassium salt substitutes , or potassium - sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dosage Adjustment Renal Impairment Establish baseline renal function in patients initiating ramipril capsules .
Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril capsules may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance > 40 mL / min .
However , in patients with worse impairment , 25 % of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hypertension For patients with hypertension and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1 . 25 mg ramipril capsules once daily .
Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 5 mg .
Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction For patients with heart failure and renal impairment , the recommended initial dose is 1 . 25 mg ramipril capsules once daily .
The dose may be increased to 1 . 25 mg twice daily , and up to a maximum dose of 2 . 5 mg twice daily depending on clinical response and tolerability .
Volume Depletion or Renal Artery Stenosis Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril capsules depend , in part , on the presence or absence of volume depletion ( e . g . , past and current diuretic use ) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis .
If such circumstances are suspected to be present , initiate dosing at 1 . 25 mg once daily .
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ramipril is supplied as hard gelatin capsules containing 1 . 25 mg , 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg of ramipril .
Ramipril Capsules , 1 . 25 mg are yellow / yellow size ‘ 4 ’ hard gelatin capsules imprinted with ‘ D ’ on yellow cap and ‘ 05 ’ on yellow body with black edible ink filled with white to almost white powder .
Ramipril Capsules , 2 . 5 mg are orange / orange size ‘ 4 ’ hard gelatin capsules imprinted with ‘ D ’ on orange cap and ‘ 06 ’ on orange body with black edible ink filled with white to almost white powder .
Ramipril Capsules , 5 mg are red / red size ‘ 4 ’ hard gelatin capsules imprinted with ‘ D ’ on red cap and ‘ 07 ’ on red body with black edible ink filled with white to almost white powder .
Ramipril Capsules , 10 mg are blue / blue size ‘ 4 ’ hard gelatin capsules imprinted with ‘ D ’ on blue cap and ‘ 08 ’ on blue body with black edible ink filled with white to almost white powder .
Capsule : 1 . 25 mg , 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ramipril capsules are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any other ACE inhibitor ( e . g . , a patient who has experienced angioedema during therapy with any other ACE inhibitor ) .
Ramipril capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Do not co - administer ramipril capsules with aliskiren : • in patients with diabetes Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor , or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) .
Ramipril capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor ( 4 ) .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with ramipril capsules in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Angioedema , increased risk in patients with a prior history ( 5 . 1 ) Hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 8 ) Renal impairment : monitor renal function during therapy ( 5 . 3 ) Avoid concomitant use of an ACE inhibitor and angiotensin blocker ( 5 . 7 ) Rare cholestatic jaundice and hepatic failure ( 5 . 2 ) Rare neutropenia and agranulocytosis ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( e . g . , ACE inhibitors ) affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving these drugs ( including ramipril ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Angioedema Head and Neck Angioedema Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor .
Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , discontinue treatment with ramipril and institute appropriate therapy immediately .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx likely to cause airway obstruction , administer appropriate therapy ( e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 [ 0 . 3 mL to 0 . 5 mL ] ) promptly [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In considering the use of ramipril , note that in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors cause a higher rate of angioedema in Black patients than in non - Black patients .
In a large U . S . post - marketing study , angioedema ( defined as reports of angio , face , larynx , tongue , or throat edema ) was reported in 3 / 1523 ( 0 . 2 % ) Black patients and in 8 / 8680 ( 0 . 09 % ) non - Black patients .
These rates were not different statistically .
Patients taking concomitant mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Include intestinal angioedema in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 2 Hepatic Failure and Impaired Liver Function Rarely , ACE inhibitors , including ramipril , have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and sometimes death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Discontinue ramipril if patient develops jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes .
As ramipril is primarily metabolized by hepatic esterases to its active moiety , ramiprilat , patients with impaired liver function could develop markedly elevated plasma levels of ramipril .
No formal pharmacokinetic studies have been carried out in hypertensive patients with impaired liver function .
5 . 3 Renal Impairment As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including ramipril , may be associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure or death .
In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with another ACE inhibitor suggests that these increases would be reversible upon discontinuation of ramipril and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , monitor renal function during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent pre - existing renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when ramipril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction of ramipril and / or discontinuation of the diuretic may be required .
5 . 4 Neutropenia and Agranulocytosis In rare instances , treatment with ACE inhibitors may be associated with mild reductions in red blood cell count and hemoglobin content , blood cell or platelet counts .
In isolated cases , agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , and bone marrow depression may occur .
Hematological reactions to ACE inhibitors are more likely to occur in patients with collagen - vascular disease ( e . g . , systemic lupus erythematosus , scleroderma ) and renal impairment .
Consider monitoring white blood cell counts in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
5 . 5 Hypotension General Considerations Ramipril can cause symptomatic hypotension , after either the initial dose or a later dose when the dosage has been increased .
Like other ACE inhibitors , ramipril , has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume - and / or salt - depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Correct volume - and salt - depletion before initiating therapy with ramipril .
If excessive hypotension occurs , place the patient in a supine position and , if necessary , treat with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Ramipril treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction In patients with heart failure post - myocardial infarction who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of ramipril .
If the initial dose of 2 . 5 mg ramipril cannot be tolerated , use an initial dose of 1 . 25 mg ramipril to avoid excessive hypotension .
Consider reducing the dose of concomitant diuretic to decrease the incidence of hypotension .
Congestive Heart Failure In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria or azotemia and rarely , with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , initiate ramipril therapy under close medical supervision and follow patients closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of ramipril or diuretic is increased .
Surgery and Anesthesia In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , ramipril may block angiotensin II formation that would otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
5 . 6 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue ramipril as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on ramipril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Telmisartan The ONTARGET trial enrolled 25 , 620 patients > 55 years old with atherosclerotic disease or diabetes with end - organ damage , randomized them to telmisartan only , ramipril only , or the combination , and followed them for a median of 56 months .
Patients receiving the combination of telmisartan and ramipril did not obtain any benefit in the composite endpoint of heart failure hospitalization compared to monotherapy , but experienced an increased incidence of clinically important renal dysfunction ( death , doubling of serum creatinine , or dialysis ) compared with groups receiving telmisartan alone or ramipril alone .
Concomitant use of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended .
Aliskiren Do not co - administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with ramipril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
5 . 8 Hyperkalemia In clinical trials with ramipril , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium > 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 1 % of hypertensive patients receiving ramipril .
In most cases , these were isolated values , which resolved despite continued therapy .
None of these patients were discontinued from the trials because of hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of other drugs that raise serum potassium levels .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 9 Cough Presumably caused by inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
Consider the possibility of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor induced - cough in the differential diagnosis of cough .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in patients with hypertension included headache , dizziness , fatigue , and cough ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Hypertension Ramipril has been evaluated for safety in over 4000 patients with hypertension ; of these , 1230 patients were studied in U . S . controlled trials , and 1107 were studied in foreign controlled trials .
Almost 700 of these patients were treated for at least one year .
The overall incidence of reported adverse events was similar in ramipril and placebo patients .
The most frequent clinical side effects ( possibly or probably related to study drug ) reported by patients receiving ramipril in placebo - controlled trials were : headache ( 5 . 4 % ) , dizziness ( 2 . 2 % ) , and fatigue or asthenia ( 2 % ) , but only the last one was more common in ramipril patients than in patients given placebo .
Generally the side effects were mild and transient , and there was no relation to total dosage within the range of 1 . 25 mg to 20 mg .
Discontinuation of therapy because of a side effect was required in approximately 3 % of U . S . patients treated with ramipril .
The most common reasons for discontinuation were : cough ( 1 % ) , dizziness ( 0 . 5 % ) , and impotence ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Of observed side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with ramipril , only asthenia ( fatigue ) was more common on ramipril than placebo ( 2 % [ n = 13 / 651 ] vs . 1 % [ n = 2 / 286 ] , respectively ) .
In placebo - controlled trials , there was also an excess of upper respiratory infection and flu syndrome in the ramipril group , not attributed at that time to ramipril .
As these studies were carried out before the relationship of cough to ACE inhibitors was recognized , some of these events may represent ramipril - induced cough .
In a later 1 - year study , increased cough was seen in almost 12 % of ramipril patients , with about 4 % of patients requiring discontinuation of treatment .
Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction AIRE Study Adverse reactions ( except laboratory abnormalities ) considered possibly / probably related to study drug that occurred in more than 1 % of patients and more frequently on ramipril are shown below .
The incidences are from the AIRE study .
The follow - up time was between 6 and 46 months for this study .
Table 2 .
Percentage of Patients with Adverse Events Possibly / Probably Related to Study Drug — Placebo - Controlled ( AIRE ) Mortality Study Adverse Event Placebo ( N = 982 ) Ramipril ( N = 1004 ) Hypotension 5 % 11 % Cough increased 4 % 8 % Dizziness 3 % 4 % Angina pectoris 2 % 3 % Nausea 1 % 2 % Postural hypotension 1 % 2 % Syncope 1 % 2 % Vomiting 0 . 5 % 2 % Vertigo 0 . 7 % 2 % Abnormal kidney function 0 . 5 % 1 % Diarrhea 0 . 4 % 1 % Other Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials ( in less than 1 % of ramipril patients ) , or rarer events seen in post - marketing experience , include the following ( in some , a causal relationship to drug is uncertain ) : Body as a whole : Anaphylactoid reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Cardiovascular : Symptomatic hypotension ( reported in 0 . 5 % of patients in U . S . trials ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] , syncope , and palpitations .
Hematologic : Pancytopenia , hemolytic anemia , and thrombocytopenia .
Decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit ( a low value and a decrease of 5 g / dL or 5 % , respectively ) were rare , occurring in 0 . 4 % of patients receiving ramipril alone and in 1 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril plus a diuretic .
Renal : Acute renal failure .
Some hypertensive patients with no apparent pre - existing renal disease have developed minor , usually transient , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine when taking ramipril , particularly when ramipril was given concomitantly with a diuretic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Angioneurotic edema : Angioneurotic edema has been reported in 0 . 3 % of patients in U . S . clinical trials of ramipril [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal : Hepatic failure , hepatitis , jaundice , pancreatitis , abdominal pain ( sometimes with enzyme changes suggesting pancreatitis ) , anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , dysphagia , gastroenteritis , increased salivation , and taste disturbance .
Dermatologic : Apparent hypersensitivity reactions ( manifested by urticaria , pruritus , or rash , with or without fever ) , photosensitivity , purpura , onycholysis , pemphigus , pemphigoid , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Anxiety , amnesia , convulsions , depression , hearing loss , insomnia , nervousness , neuralgia , neuropathy , paresthesia , somnolence , tinnitus , tremor , vertigo , and vision disturbances .
Miscellaneous : As with other ACE inhibitors , a symptom complex has been reported which may include a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia , fever , vasculitis , eosinophilia , photosensitivity , rash and other dermatologic manifestations .
Additionally , as with other ACE inhibitors , eosinophilic pneumonitis has been reported .
Other : Arthralgia , arthritis , dyspnea , edema , epistaxis , impotence , increased sweating , malaise , myalgia , and weight gain .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials , there have been rare reports of hypoglycemia reported during ramipril therapy when given to patients concomitantly taking oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin .
The causal relationship is unknown .
6 . 3 Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Creatinine and Blood Urea Nitrogen : Increases in creatinine levels occurred in 1 . 2 % of patients receiving ramipril alone , and in 1 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril and a diuretic .
Increases in blood urea nitrogen levels occurred in 0 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril alone and in 3 % of patients receiving ramipril with a diuretic .
None of these increases required discontinuation of treatment .
Increases in these laboratory values are more likely to occur in patients with renal insufficiency or those pretreated with a diuretic and , based on experience with other ACE inhibitors , would be expected to be especially likely in patients with renal artery stenosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
As ramipril decreases aldosterone secretion , elevation of serum potassium can occur .
Use potassium supplements and potassium sparing diuretics with caution , and monitor the patient ’ s serum potassium frequently [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit ( a low value and a decrease of 5 g / dL or 5 % , respectively ) were rare , occurring in 0 . 4 % of patients receiving ramipril alone and in 1 . 5 % of patients receiving ramipril plus a diuretic .
No U . S . patients discontinued treatment because of decreases in hemoglobin or hematocrit .
Other ( causal relationships unknown ) : Clinically important changes in standard laboratory tests were rarely associated with ramipril administration .
Elevations of liver enzymes , serum bilirubin , uric acid , and blood glucose have been reported , as have cases of hyponatremia and scattered incidents of leucopenia , eosinophilia , and proteinuria .
In U . S . trials , less than 0 . 2 % of patients discontinued treatment for laboratory abnormalities ; all of these were cases of proteinuria or abnormal liver - function tests .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics : Possibility of excessive hypotension ( 7 . 1 ) .
Lithium : Use with caution ( 7 . 4 ) .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions have been reported ( 7 . 5 ) .
NSAIDs use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 . 6 ) .
mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7 . 7 ) 7 . 1 Diuretics Patients on diuretics , especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with ramipril .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with ramipril can be minimized by either decreasing or discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with ramipril .
If this is not possible , reduce the starting dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
7 . 2 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of ramipril with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients .
7 . 3 Other Agents Affecting RAS In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 4 Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium ; therefore , frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
If a diuretic is also used , the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased .
7 . 5 Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including ramipril .
7 . 6 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including ramipril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving ramipril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including ramipril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
7 . 7 mTOR Inhibitors or Other Drugs Known to Cause Angioedema Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Discontinue drug if pregnancy is detected ( 5 . 6 , 8 . 1 ) .
Nursing mothers : Ramipril use is not recommended in nursing mothers ( 8 . 3 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue ramipril as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue ramipril unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to ramipril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ingestion of a single 10 mg oral dose of ramipril resulted in undetectable amounts of ramipril and its metabolites in breast milk .
However , because multiple doses may produce low milk concentrations that are not predictable from a single dose , do not use ramipril in nursing mothers .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to ramipril : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Ramipril , which crosses the placenta , can be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means , but limited experience has not shown that such removal is central to the treatment of these infants .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Irreversible kidney damage has been observed in very young rats given a single dose of ramipril .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received ramipril in U . S . clinical studies of ramipril , 11 % were ≥ 65 years of age while 0 . 2 % were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but a greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
One pharmacokinetic study conducted in hospitalized elderly patients indicated that peak ramiprilat levels and area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) for ramiprilat are higher in older patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment A single - dose pharmacokinetic study was conducted in hypertensive patients with varying degrees of renal impairment who received a single 10 mg dose of ramipril .
Patients were stratified into four groups based on initial estimates of creatinine clearance : normal ( > 80 mL / min ) , mild impairment ( 40 to 80 mL / min ) , moderate impairment ( 15 to 40 mL / min ) , and severe impairment ( < 15 mL / min ) .
On average , the AUC0 - 24 h for ramiprilat was approximately 1 . 7 - fold higher , 3 - fold higher , and 3 . 2 - fold higher in the groups with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to the group with normal renal function .
Overall , the results suggest that the starting dose of ramipril should be adjusted downward in patients with moderate - to - severe renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of ramipril in rats and mice of 10 g / kg to 11 g / kg resulted in significant lethality .
In dogs , oral doses as high as 1 g / kg induced only mild gastrointestinal distress .
Limited data on human overdosage are available .
The most likely clinical manifestations would be symptoms attributable to hypotension .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of ramipril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of ramipril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of ramipril and its metabolites .
Similarly , it is not known which , if any , of these substances can be effectively removed from the body by hemodialysis .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of ramipril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of ramipril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat ramipril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
11 DESCRIPTION Ramipril is a 2 - aza - bicyclo [ 3 . 3 . 0 ] - octane - 3 - carboxylic acid derivative .
It is a white to almost white crystalline powder soluble in polar organic solvents and buffered aqueous solutions .
Ramipril melts between 105 ° to 112 ° C . Ramipril ’ s chemical name is ( 2 S , 3 aS , 6 aS ) - 1 [ ( S ) - N - [ ( S ) - 1 - Carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ] alanyl ] octahydrocyclopenta [ b ] pyrrole - 2 - carboxylic acid , 1 - ethyl ester .
The inactive ingredients present are pregelatinized starch and silica hydrophobic , colloidal anhydrous .
The empty hard gelatin capsule shells contain gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the 1 . 25 mg capsule shell contains iron oxide yellow , 2 . 5 mg capsule shell contains D & C yellow 10 and FD & C red 40 , the 5 mg capsule shell contains FD & C blue 1 and FD & C red 40 , and the 10 mg capsule shell contains FD & C blue 1 .
The capsules are printed with edible ink containing black iron oxide and shellac .
The structural formula for ramipril is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is C23H32N2O5 and its molecular weight is 416 . 5 .
Ramiprilat , the diacid metabolite of ramipril , is a non - sulfhydryl ACE inhibitor .
Ramipril is converted to ramiprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ramipril and ramiprilat inhibit ACE in human subjects and animals .
Angiotensin converting enzyme is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with ramipril alone for up to 56 weeks , approximately 4 % of patients during the trial had an abnormally high serum potassium and an increase from baseline greater than 0 . 75 mEq / L , and none of the patients had an abnormally low potassium and a decrease from baseline greater than 0 . 75 mEq / L .
In the same study , approximately 2 % of patients treated with ramipril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 56 weeks had abnormally high potassium values and an increase from baseline of 0 . 75 mEq / L or greater ; and approximately 2 % had abnormally low values and decreases from baseline of 0 . 75 mEq / L or greater [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
The effect of ramipril on hypertension appears to result at least in part from inhibition of both tissue and circulating ACE activity , thereby reducing angiotensin II formation in tissue and plasma .
Angiotensin converting enzyme is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasopressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of ramipril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which ramipril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , ramipril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although ramipril was antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a blood pressure lowering response to monotherapy , albeit a smaller average response , than non - Black patients .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Single doses of ramipril of 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg produce approximately 60 % to 80 % inhibition of ACE activity 4 hours after dosing with approximately 40 % to 60 % inhibition after 24 hours .
Multiple oral doses of ramipril of 2 mg or more cause plasma ACE activity to fall by more than 90 % 4 hours after dosing , with over 80 % inhibition of ACE activity remaining 24 hours after dosing .
The more prolonged effect of even small multiple doses presumably reflects saturation of ACE binding sites by ramiprilat and relatively slow release from those sites .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of ramipril , peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of ramipril are reached within 1 hour .
The extent of absorption is at least 50 % to 60 % , and is not significantly influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract , although the rate of absorption is reduced .
In a trial in which subjects received ramipril capsules or the contents of identical capsules dissolved in water , dissolved in apple juice , or suspended in applesauce , serum ramiprilat levels were essentially unrelated to the use or non - use of the concomitant liquid or food .
Distribution Cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts ramipril to its active diacid metabolite , ramiprilat .
Peak plasma concentrations of ramiprilat are reached 2 to 4 hours after drug intake .
The serum protein binding of ramipril is about 73 % and that of ramiprilat about 56 % ; in vitro , these percentages are independent of concentration over the range of 0 . 01 mcg / mL to 10 mcg / mL .
Metabolism Ramipril is almost completely metabolized to ramiprilat , which has about 6 times the ACE inhibitory activity of ramipril , and to the diketopiperazine ester , the diketopiperazine acid , and the glucuronides of ramipril and ramiprilat , all of which are inactive .
Plasma concentrations of ramipril and ramiprilat increase with increased dose , but are not strictly dose - proportional .
The 24 - hour AUC for ramiprilat , however , is dose - proportional over the 2 . 5 mg to 20 mg dose range .
The absolute bioavailabilities of ramipril and ramiprilat were 28 % and 44 % , respectively , when 5 mg of oral ramipril was compared with the same dose of ramipril given intravenously .
After once - daily dosing , steady - state plasma concentrations of ramiprilat are reached by the fourth dose .
Steady - state concentrations of ramiprilat are somewhat higher than those seen after the first dose of ramipril , especially at low doses ( 2 . 5 mg ) , but the difference is clinically insignificant .
Plasma concentrations of ramiprilat decline in a triphasic manner ( initial rapid decline , apparent elimination phase , terminal elimination phase ) .
The initial rapid decline , which represents distribution of the drug into a large peripheral compartment and subsequent binding to both plasma and tissue ACE , has a half - life of 2 to 4 hours .
Because of its potent binding to ACE and slow dissociation from the enzyme , ramiprilat shows two elimination phases .
The apparent elimination phase corresponds to the clearance of free ramiprilat and has a half - life of 9 to 18 hours .
The terminal elimination phase has a prolonged half - life ( > 50 hours ) and probably represents the binding / dissociation kinetics of the ramiprilat / ACE complex .
It does not contribute to the accumulation of the drug .
After multiple daily doses of ramipril 5 mg to 10 mg , the half - life of ramiprilat concentrations within the therapeutic range was 13 to 17 hours .
In patients with creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , peak levels of ramiprilat are approximately doubled , and trough levels may be as much as quintupled .
In multiple - dose regimens , the total exposure to ramiprilat ( AUC ) in these patients is 3 to 4 times as large as it is in patients with normal renal function who receive similar doses .
In patients with impaired liver function , the metabolism of ramipril to ramiprilat appears to be slowed , possibly because of diminished activity of hepatic esterases , and plasma ramipril levels in these patients are increased about 3 - fold .
Peak concentrations of ramiprilat in these patients , however , are not different from those seen in subjects with normal hepatic function , and the effect of a given dose on plasma ACE activity does not vary with hepatic function .
Excretion After oral administration of ramipril , about 60 % of the parent drug and its metabolites are eliminated in the urine , and about 40 % is found in the feces .
Drug recovered in the feces may represent both biliary excretion of metabolites and / or unabsorbed drug , however the proportion of a dose eliminated by the bile has not been determined .
Less than 2 % of the administered dose is recovered in urine as unchanged ramipril .
The urinary excretion of ramipril , ramiprilat , and their metabolites is reduced in patients with impaired renal function .
Compared to normal subjects , patients with creatinine clearance < 40 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 had higher peak and trough ramiprilat levels and slightly longer times to peak concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of a tumorigenic effect was found when ramipril was given by gavage to rats for up to 24 months at doses of up to 500 mg / kg / day or to mice for up to 18 months at doses of up to 1000 mg / kg / day .
( For either species , these doses are about 200 times the maximum recommended human dose when compared on the basis of body surface area . )
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria , the micronucleus test in mice , unscheduled DNA synthesis in a human cell line , or a forward gene - mutation assay in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line .
Several metabolites and degradation products of ramipril were also negative in the Ames test .
A study in rats with dosages as great as 500 mg / kg / day did not produce adverse effects on fertility .
No teratogenic effects of ramipril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , rabbits , and cynomolgus monkeys .
On a body surface area basis , the doses used were up to approximately 400 times ( in rats and monkeys ) and 2 times ( in rabbits ) the recommended human dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension Ramipril has been compared with other ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers , and thiazide diuretics as monotherapy for hypertension .
It was approximately as effective as other ACE inhibitors and as atenolol .
Administration of ramipril to patients with mild to moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt - and / or volume - depleted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Use of ramipril in combination with thiazide diuretics gives a blood pressure lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone .
In single - dose studies , doses of 5 mg to 20 mg of ramipril lowered blood pressure within 1 to 2 hours , with peak reductions achieved 3 to 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
In longer term ( 4 to 12 weeks ) controlled studies , once - daily doses of 2 . 5 mg to 10 mg were similar in their effect , lowering supine or standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures 24 hours after dosing by about 6 / 4 mmHg more than placebo .
In comparisons of peak vs . trough effect , the trough effect represented about 50 to 60 % of the peak response .
In a titration study comparing divided ( bid ) vs . qd treatment , the divided regimen was superior , indicating that for some patients , the antihypertensive effect with once - daily dosing is not adequately maintained .
In most trials , the antihypertensive effect of ramipril increased during the first several weeks of repeated measurements .
The antihypertensive effect of ramipril has been shown to continue during long - term therapy for at least 2 years .
Abrupt withdrawal of ramipril has not resulted in a rapid increase in blood pressure .
Ramipril has been compared with other ACE inhibitors , beta - blockers , and thiazide diuretics .
Ramipril was approximately as effective as other ACE inhibitors and as atenolol .
In both Caucasians and Blacks , hydrochlorothiazide ( 25 or 50 mg ) was significantly more effective than ramipril .
Ramipril was less effective in blacks than in Caucasians .
The effectiveness of ramipril was not influenced by age , sex , or weight .
In a baseline controlled study of 10 patients with mild essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a 15 % increase in renal blood flow .
In healthy volunteers , glomerular filtration rate was unchanged .
14 . 3 Heart Failure Post - Myocardial Infarction Ramipril was studied in the AIRE trial .
This was a multinational ( mainly European ) 161 - center , 2006 - patient , double - blind , randomized , parallel - group study comparing ramipril to placebo in stable patients , 2 to 9 days after an acute myocardial infarction , who had shown clinical signs of congestive heart failure at any time after the myocardial infarction .
Patients in severe ( NYHA class IV ) heart failure , patients with unstable angina , patients with heart failure of congenital or valvular etiology , and patients with contraindications to ACE inhibitors were all excluded .
The majority of patients had received thrombolytic therapy at the time of the index infarction , and the average time between infarction and initiation of treatment was 5 days .
Patients randomized to ramipril treatment were given an initial dose of 2 . 5 mg twice daily .
If the initial regimen caused undue hypotension , the dose was reduced to 1 . 25 mg , but in either event doses were titrated upward ( as tolerated ) to a target regimen ( achieved in 77 % of patients randomized to ramipril ) of 5 mg twice daily .
Patients were then followed for an average of 15 months , with the range of follow - up between 6 and 46 months .
The use of ramipril was associated with a 27 % reduction ( p = 0 . 002 ) in the risk of death from any cause ; about 90 % of the deaths that occurred were cardiovascular , mainly sudden death .
The risks of progression to severe heart failure and of congestive heart failure - related hospitalization were also reduced , by 23 % ( p = 0 . 017 ) and 26 % ( p = 0 . 011 ) , respectively .
The benefits of ramipril therapy were seen in both genders , and they were not affected by the exact timing of the initiation of therapy , but older patients may have had a greater benefit than those under 65 .
The benefits were seen in patients on ( and not on ) various concomitant medications .
At the time of randomization these included aspirin ( about 80 % of patients ) , diuretics ( about 60 % ) , organic nitrates ( about 55 % ) , beta - blockers ( about 20 % ) , calcium channel blockers ( about 15 % ) , and digoxin ( about 12 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3873 NDC : 50090 - 3873 - 0 100 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur with treatment with ACE inhibitors , especially following the first dose .
Advise patients to immediately report any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to temporarily discontinue drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Neutropenia Advise patients to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Symptomatic Hypotension Inform patients that light - headedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and it should be reported .
Advise patients to discontinue ramipril if syncope ( fainting ) occurs , and to follow up with their health care providers .
Inform patients that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting while taking ramipril can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Pregnancy Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to ramipril during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Ask patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Hyperkalemia Advise patients not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 038 , India Revised : 07 / 2018 Ramipril [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
