WARNING : ANAPHYLAXIS Anaphylaxis has been reported after administration of KALBITOR .
Because of the risk of anaphylaxis , KALBITOR should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
Healthcare professionals should be aware of the similarity of symptoms between hypersensitivity reactions and hereditary angioedema and patients should be monitored closely .
Do not administer KALBITOR to patients with known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] WARNING : ANAPHYLAXIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning Anaphylaxis has been reported after administration of KALBITOR ® .
Because of the risk of anaphylaxis , KALBITOR should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
Healthcare professionals should be aware of the similarity of symptoms between hypersensitivity reactions and hereditary angioedema and patients should be monitored closely .
Do not administer KALBITOR to patients with known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KALBITOR ® ( ecallantide ) is indicated for treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) in patients 12 years of age and older .
KALBITOR is a plasma kallikrein inhibitor indicated for treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) in patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 30 mg ( 3 mL ) , administered subcutaneously in three 10 mg ( 1 mL ) injections .
If an attack persists , an additional dose of 30 mg may be administered within a 24 hour period .
( 2 . 1 ) • KALBITOR should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dose of KALBITOR is 30 mg ( 3 mL ) , administered subcutaneously in three 10 mg ( 1 mL ) injections .
If the attack persists , an additional dose of 30 mg may be administered within a 24 hour period .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions KALBITOR should only be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
KALBITOR should be refrigerated and protected from the light .
KALBITOR is a clear , colorless liquid ; visually inspect each vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
If there is particulate matter or discoloration , the vial should not be used .
Using aseptic technique , withdraw 1 mL ( 10 mg ) of KALBITOR from the vial using a large bore needle .
Change the needle on the syringe to a needle suitable for subcutaneous injection .
The recommended needle size is 27 gauge .
Inject KALBITOR into the skin of the abdomen , thigh , or upper arm .
Repeat the procedure for each of the 3 vials comprising the KALBITOR dose .
The injection site for each of the injections may be in the same or in different anatomic locations ( abdomen , thigh , upper arm ) .
There is no need for site rotation .
Injection sites should be separated by at least 2 inches ( 5 cm ) and away from the anatomical site of attack .
The same instructions apply to an additional dose administered within 24 hours .
Different injection sites or the same anatomical location ( as used for the first administration ) may be used .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS KALBITOR is a clear , colorless liquid free of preservatives .
Each vial of KALBITOR contains ecallantide at a concentration of 10 mg / mL .
Single use glass vial containing 10 mg / mL of ecallantide as a solution for injection .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not administer KALBITOR to a patient who has known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Do not administer KALBITOR to a patient who has known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis : Anaphylaxis has occurred in 4 % of treated patients .
Administer KALBITOR in a setting equipped to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
Given the similarity in hypersensitivity symptoms and acute HAE symptoms , monitor patients closely for hypersensitivity reactions ( 5 ) .
5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions , Including Anaphylaxis Potentially serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred in patients treated with KALBITOR .
In 255 HAE patients treated with intravenous or subcutaneous KALBITOR in clinical studies , 10 patients ( 4 % ) experienced anaphylaxis .
For the subgroup of 187 patients treated with subcutaneous KALBITOR , 5 patients ( 3 % ) experienced anaphylaxis .
Symptoms associated with these reactions have included chest discomfort , flushing , pharyngeal edema , pruritus , rhinorrhea , sneezing , nasal congestion , throat irritation , urticaria , wheezing , and hypotension .
These reactions occurred within the first hour after dosing .
Other adverse reactions indicative of hypersensitivity reactions included the following : pruritus ( 5 % ) , rash ( 3 % ) , and urticaria ( 2 % ) .
Patients should be observed for an appropriate period of time after administration of KALBITOR , taking into account the time to onset of anaphylaxis seen in clinical trials .
Given the similarity in hypersensitivity symptoms and acute HAE symptoms , patients should be monitored closely in the event of a hypersensitivity reaction .
KALBITOR should not be administered to any patients with known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred in patients treated with KALBITOR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 3 % of KALBITOR - treated patients and greater than placebo are headache , nausea , diarrhea , pyrexia , injection site reactions , and nasopharyngitis .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflect exposure to KALBITOR in 255 patients with HAE treated with either intravenous or subcutaneous KALBITOR .
Of the 255 patients , 66 % of patients were female and 86 % were Caucasian .
Patients treated with KALBITOR were between the ages of 10 and 78 years .
Overall , the most common adverse reactions in 255 patients with HAE were headache ( 16 % ) , nausea ( 13 % ) , fatigue ( 12 % ) , diarrhea ( 11 % ) , upper respiratory tract infection ( 8 % ) , injection site reactions ( 7 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 6 % ) , vomiting ( 6 % ) , pruritus ( 5 % ) , upper abdominal pain ( 5 % ) , and pyrexia ( 5 % ) .
Anaphylaxis was reported in 4 % of patients with HAE .
Injection site reactions were characterized by local pruritus , erythema , pain , irritation , urticaria , and / or bruising .
The incidence of adverse reactions below is based upon 2 placebo - controlled , clinical trials ( EDEMA3 ® and EDEMA4 ® ) in a total of 143 unique patients with HAE .
Patients were treated with KALBITOR 30 mg subcutaneous or placebo .
Patients were permitted to participate sequentially in both placebo - controlled trials ; safety data collected during exposure to KALBITOR was attributed to treatment with KALBITOR , and safety data collected during exposure to placebo was attributed to treatment with placebo .
Table 1 shows adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 3 % of KALBITOR - treated patients that also occurred at a higher rate than in the placebo - treated patients in the two controlled trials ( EDEMA3 and EDEMA4 ) of the 30 mg subcutaneous dose .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring at ≥ 3 % and Higher than Placebo in 2 Placebo Controlled Clinical Trials in Patients with HAE Treated with KALBITOR KALBITOR N = 100 Placebo N = 81 Adverse Reactions n ( % ) [ 1 ] n ( % ) null Headache 8 ( 8 % ) 6 ( 7 % ) Nausea 5 ( 5 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Diarrhea 4 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 4 % ) Pyrexia 4 ( 4 % ) 0 Injection site reactions 3 ( 3 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Nasopharyngitis 3 ( 3 % ) 0 [ 1 ] Patients experiencing more than 1 event with the same preferred term are counted only once for that preferred term .
Some patients in EDEMA3 and EDEMA4 received a second , open - label 30 mg subcutaneous dose of KALBITOR within 24 hours following the initial dose .
Adverse reactions reported by these patients who received the additional 30 mg subcutaneous dose of KALBITOR were consistent with those reported in the patients receiving a single dose .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity In the KALBITOR HAE program , patients developed antibodies to KALBITOR .
Rates of seroconversion increased with exposure to KALBITOR over time .
Overall , 20 . 2 % of patients seroconverted to anti - ecallantide antibodies .
Neutralizing antibodies to ecallantide were determined in vitro to be present in 8 . 8 % of patients and were not associated with loss of efficacy .
Anti - ecallantide IgE antibodies were detected at a rate of 4 . 7 % for tested patients , and anti - P .
pastoris IgE antibodies were also detected at a rate of 20 . 2 % .
Patients who seroconvert may be at a higher risk of a hypersensitivity reaction .
The long - term effects of antibodies to KALBITOR are not known .
The test results for the ecallantide program were determined using one of two assay formats : ELISA and bridging electrochemiluminescence ( ECL ) .
As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity with the use of KALBITOR .
The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to KALBITOR with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Similar adverse reactions have been observed postmarketing as described for clinical trial experience .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate frequency or to establish a causal relationship with drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interactions studies were performed .
No in vitro metabolism studies were performed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The available data from the pharmacovigilance database for Kalbitor have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In an animal reproduction study , increased early fetal deaths resulting in decreased live fetuses were observed in rats following treatment during the period of organogenesis at an intravenous dose approximately 1 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in the presence of maternal toxicity .
There were no effects on embryofetal survival or structural abnormalities in rats and rabbits following treatment during the period of organogenesis with intravenous doses up to approximately 1 . 1 and 6 times the MRHD , respectively , or rats treated with subcutaneous doses up to 2 . 4 times the MRHD .
In a pre - and post - natal development study with rats , there were no effects on pup survival and development with subcutaneous doses up to approximately 2 . 7 times the MRHD .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal development study with rats , ecallantide administered by the intravenous route during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 7 to 17 at a dose approximately 1 . 6 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2 basis at a maternal intravenous dose of 15 mg / kg / day ) caused increased numbers of early resorptions and percentages of resorbed conceptuses per litter resulting in decreased numbers of live fetuses in the presence of mild maternal toxicity .
No effects on embryofetal survival or structural abnormalities were observed in rats with intravenous doses up to approximately 1 . 1 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2 basis with maternal intravenous dose of 10 mg / kg / day ) .
In an embryofetal development study with rats , ecallantide administered by the subcutaneous route during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 7 to 17 at doses up to approximately 2 . 4 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal subcutaneous doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ) had no effects on embryofetal survival or structural abnormalities .
In an embryofetal development study with rabbits , ecallantide administered by the intravenous route during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 7 to 19 at doses up to approximately 6 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal intravenous doses up to 5 mg / kg / day in rabbits ) had no effects on embryofetal survival or structural abnormalities .
In a pre - and post - natal development study with rats , ecallantide administered by the subcutaneous route from gestation day 7 through lactation day 20 at doses up to approximately 2 . 7 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2 basis with maternal subcutaneous doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ) had no effects on pup survival and behavioral or physical development .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ecallantide in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for KALBITOR and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from KALBITOR or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of KALBITOR have been established in patients 12 to 17 years of age .
The efficacy of KALBITOR in the 12 - 15 year age group is extrapolated from efficacy in patients 16 years of age and older with support from population pharmacokinetic analyses showing similar drug exposure levels in adults and adolescents [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety profile observed in pediatric patients 12 - 17 years of age was similar to the adverse reactions observed in the overall clinical trial population [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of KALBITOR in patients less than 12 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of KALBITOR did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of overdose with KALBITOR .
HAE patients have received single doses up to 90 mg intravenously without evidence of dose - related toxicity .
11 DESCRIPTION KALBITOR ( ecallantide ) is a human plasma kallikrein inhibitor for injection for subcutaneous use .
Ecallantide is a 60 - amino - acid protein produced in Pichia pastoris yeast cells by recombinant DNA technology .
KALBITOR is a clear and colorless , sterile , and nonpyrogenic solution .
Each vial contains 10 mg ecallantide as the active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : 0 . 76 mg disodium hydrogen orthophosphate ( dihydrate ) , 0 . 2 mg monopotassium phosphate , 0 . 2 mg potassium chloride , and 8 mg sodium chloride in water for injection , USP .
KALBITOR is preservative free , with a pH of approximately 7 . 0 .
A 30 mg dose is supplied as 3 vials each containing 1 mL of 10 mg / mL KALBITOR .
Vials are intended for single use .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) is a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations to C1 - esterase - inhibitor ( C1 - INH ) located on Chromosome 11 q and inherited as an autosomal dominant trait .
HAE is characterized by low levels of C1 - INH activity and low levels of C4 .
C1 - INH functions to regulate the activation of the complement and intrinsic coagulation ( contact system pathway ) and is a major endogenous inhibitor of plasma kallikrein .
The kallikrein - kinin system is a complex proteolytic cascade involved in the initiation of both inflammatory and coagulation pathways .
One critical aspect of this pathway is the conversion of High Molecular Weight ( HMW ) kininogen to bradykinin by the protease plasma kallikrein .
In HAE , normal regulation of plasma kallikrein activity and the classical complement cascade is therefore not present .
During attacks , unregulated activity of plasma kallikrein results in excessive bradykinin generation .
Bradykinin is a vasodilator which is thought by some to be responsible for the characteristic HAE symptoms of localized swelling , inflammation , and pain .
KALBITOR is a potent ( Ki = 25 pM ) , selective , reversible inhibitor of plasma kallikrein .
KALBITOR binds to plasma kallikrein and blocks its binding site , inhibiting the conversion of HMW kininogen to bradykinin .
By directly inhibiting plasma kallikrein , KALBITOR reduces the conversion of HMW kininogen to bradykinin and thereby treats symptoms of the disease during acute episodic attacks of HAE .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No exposure - response relationships for KALBITOR to components of the complement or kallikrein - kinin pathways have been established .
The effect of KALBITOR on activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) was measured because of potential effect on the intrinsic coagulation pathway .
Prolongation of aPTT has been observed following intravenous dosing of KALBITOR at doses ≥ 20 mg / m2 .
At 80 mg administered intravenously in healthy subjects , aPTT values were prolonged approximately two - fold over baseline values and returned to normal by 4 hours post - dose .
For patients taking KALBITOR , no significant QT prolongation has been seen .
In a randomized , placebo - controlled trial ( EDEMA4 ) studying the 30 mg subcutaneous dose versus placebo , 12 - lead ECGs were obtained at baseline , 2 hours and 4 hours post - dose ( covering the time of expected Cmax ) , and at follow - up ( day 7 ) .
ECGs were evaluated for PR interval , QRS complex , and QTc interval .
KALBITOR had no significant effect on the QTc interval , heart rate , or any other components of the ECG .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following the administration of a single 30 mg subcutaneous dose of KALBITOR to healthy subjects , a mean ( ± standard deviation ) maximum plasma concentration of 586 ± 106 ng / mL was observed approximately 2 to 3 hours post - dose .
The mean area under the concentration - time curve was 3017 ± 402 ng * hr / mL .
Following administration , plasma concentration declined with a mean elimination half - life of 2 . 0 ± 0 . 5 hours .
Plasma clearance was 153 ± 20 mL / min and the volume of distribution was 26 . 4 ± 7 . 8 L . Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis , body weight , age , and gender were not found to affect KALBITOR exposure significantly .
Ecallantide is a small protein ( 7054 Da ) and renal elimination in the urine of treated subjects has been demonstrated .
No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients or subjects with hepatic or renal impairment .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A two - year study was conducted in rats to assess the carcinogenic potential of KALBITOR .
No evidence of tumorigenicity was observed in rats at ecallantide doses up to 10 mg / kg administered subcutaneously every three days ( approximately 2 - fold greater than the MRHD on an AUC basis ) .
KALBITOR had no effects on fertility and reproductive performance in rats at maternal subcutaneous doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 . 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of KALBITOR to treat acute attacks of hereditary angioedema in adolescents and adults were evaluated in 2 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials ( EDEMA4 and EDEMA3 ) in 168 patients with HAE .
Patients having an attack of hereditary angioedema , at any anatomic location , with at least 1 moderate or severe symptom , were treated with 30 mg subcutaneous KALBITOR or placebo .
Because patients could participate in both trials , a total of 143 unique patients participated .
Of the 143 patients , 94 were female , 123 were Caucasian , and the mean age was 36 years ( range 11 - 77 ) .
There were 64 patients with abdominal attacks , 55 with peripheral attacks , and 24 with laryngeal attacks .
In both trials , the effects of KALBITOR were evaluated using the Mean Symptom Complex Severity ( MSCS ) score and the Treatment Outcome Score ( TOS ) .
These endpoints evaluated attack severity ( MSCS ) and patient response to treatment ( TOS ) for an acute HAE attack .
MSCS score is a point - in - time measure of symptom severity .
At baseline , and post - dosing at 4 hours and 24 hours , patients rated the severity of each affected symptom on a categorical scale ( 0 = normal , 1 = mild , 2 = moderate , 3 = severe ) .
Patient - reported severity was based on each patient ' s assessment of symptom impact on their ability to perform routine activities .
Ratings were averaged to obtain the MSCS score .
The endpoint was reported as the change in MSCS score from baseline .
A decrease in MSCS score reflected an improvement in symptom severity ; the maximum possible change toward improvement was - 3 .
TOS is a measure of symptom response to treatment .
At 4 hours and 24 hours post - dosing , patient assessment of response for each anatomic site of attack involvement was recorded on a categorical scale ( significant improvement [ 100 ] , improvement [ 50 ] , same [ 0 ] , worsening [ - 50 ] , significant worsening [ - 100 ] ) .
The response at each anatomic site was weighted by baseline severity and then the weighted scores across all involved sites were averaged to calculate the TOS .
A TOS value > 0 reflected an improvement in symptoms from baseline .
The maximum possible score was + 100 .
EDEMA4 EDEMA4 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in which 96 patients were randomized 1 : 1 to receive KALBITOR 30 mg subcutaneous or placebo for acute attacks of HAE .
The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in MSCS score at 4 hours , and the TOS at 4 hours was a key secondary endpoint .
Patients treated with KALBITOR demonstrated a greater decrease from baseline in the MSCS than placebo and a greater TOS than patients with placebo and the results were statistically significant ( Table 2 ) .
At 24 hours , patients treated with KALBITOR also demonstrated a greater decrease from baseline in the MSCS than placebo ( - 1 . 5 vs . - 1 . 1 ; p = 0 . 04 ) and a greater TOS ( 89 vs . 55 , p = 0 . 03 ) .
Table 2 : Change in MSCS Score and TOS at 4 Hours EDEMA4 EDEMA3 KALBITOR ( N = 48 ) Placebo ( N = 48 ) KALBITOR ( N = 36 ) Placebo ( N = 36 ) MSCS : Mean Symptom Complex Severity TOS : Treatment Outcome Score CI : confidence interval Change in MSCS Score at 4 Hours n 47 42 34 35 Mean - 0 . 8 - 0 . 4 - 1 . 1 - 0 . 6 95 % CI - 1 . 0 , - 0 . 6 - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 1 - 1 . 4 , - 0 . 8 - 0 . 8 , - 0 . 4 P - value 0 . 010 0 . 041 TOS at 4 Hours n 47 42 34 35 Mean 53 8 63 36 95 % CI 39 , 68 - 12 , 28 49 , 76 17 , 54 P - value 0 . 003 0 . 045 More patients in the placebo group ( 24 / 48 , 50 % ) required medical intervention to treat unresolved symptoms within 24 hours compared to the KALBITOR - treated group ( 16 / 48 , 33 % ) .
Some patients reported improvement following a second 30 mg subcutaneous dose of KALBITOR , administered within 24 hours following the initial dose for symptom persistence or relapse , but efficacy was not systematically assessed for the second dose .
EDEMA3 EDEMA3 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in which 72 patients were randomized 1 : 1 to receive KALBITOR or placebo for acute attacks of HAE .
EDEMA3 was similar in design to EDEMA4 with the exception of the order of the prespecified efficacy endpoints .
In EDEMA3 , the primary endpoint was the TOS at 4 hours , and the key secondary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in MSCS at 4 hours .
As in EDEMA4 , patients treated with KALBITOR demonstrated a greater decrease from baseline in the MSCS than placebo and a greater TOS than patients treated with placebo and the results were statistically significant ( Table 2 ) .
In addition , more patients in the placebo group ( 13 / 36 , 36 % ) required medical intervention to treat unresolved symptoms within 24 hours compared to the KALBITOR - treated group ( 5 / 36 , 14 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING KALBITOR ( ecallantide ) is supplied as three 10 mg / mL single - use vials packaged in a carton .
Each vial contains 10 mg of ecallantide .
Each vial contains a slight overfill .
• NDC ( 47783 - 101 - 01 ) : 3 single - use vials in 1 carton KALBITOR should be kept refrigerated ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C / 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Vials removed from refrigeration should be stored below 86 ° F / 30 ° C and used within 14 days or returned to refrigeration until use .
Protect vials from light until use .
Do not use beyond the expiration date .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) • Advise patients that KALBITOR may cause anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions .
Advise patients that KALBITOR should be administered by a healthcare professional with appropriate medical support to manage anaphylaxis and hereditary angioedema .
Instruct patients who have known clinical hypersensitivity to KALBITOR not to receive additional doses of KALBITOR .
[ see Boxed Warning , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Advise patients to consult the Medication Guide for additional information regarding the risk of anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions .
For more information , visit www . kalbitor . com or call 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No . 1898 KALBITOR ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2021 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Medication Guide KALBITOR ® ( KAL - bi - tor ) ( ecallantide ) Read this Medication Guide before you start receiving KALBITOR and before each treatment .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information that I should know about KALBITOR ?
Serious allergic reactions may happen in some people who receive KALBITOR .
These allergic reactions can be life - threatening and usually happen within 1 hour after receiving KALBITOR .
• KALBITOR should be given to you by a doctor or nurse in a healthcare setting where serious allergic reactions and hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) can be treated .
• Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction to KALBITOR can be similar to the symptoms of HAE , the condition that you are being treated for .
Your doctor or nurse should watch you for any signs of a serious allergic reaction after treatment with KALBITOR .
• Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you have any of these symptoms of a serious allergic reaction during or after treatment with KALBITOR : • wheezing , shortness of breath , cough , chest tightness , or trouble breathing • dizziness , fainting , fast or weak heartbeat , or feeling nervous • reddening of the face , itching , hives , or feeling warm • swelling of the throat or tongue , throat tightness , hoarse voice , or trouble swallowing • runny nose , nasal congestion , or sneezing What is KALBITOR ?
KALBITOR is a prescription medicine used to treat sudden attacks of hereditary angioedema ( HAE ) in people 12 years of age and older .
KALBITOR is not a cure for HAE .
It is not known if KALBITOR is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
Who should not receive KALBITOR ?
Do not receive KALBITOR if you are allergic to KALBITOR .
What should I tell my doctor before I receive KALBITOR ?
Before receiving KALBITOR , tell your doctor if you : • have ever had an allergic reaction to KALBITOR .
See " Who should not receive KALBITOR ? "
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if KALBITOR will harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if KALBITOR passes into your breast milk .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How will I receive KALBITOR ?
For each dose , you will receive 3 injections just under the skin ( subcutaneous or SC injections ) of your abdomen , thigh , or upper arm .
What are the possible side effects ?
KALBITOR can cause serious allergic reactions .
See " What is the most important information I should know about KALBITOR ? "
Common side effects of KALBITOR include : • headache • nausea • diarrhea • fever • injection site reactions , such as redness , rash , swelling , itching , or bruising • stuffy nose Call your doctor for advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about KALBITOR Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
This Medication Guide gives you the most important information about KALBITOR .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about KALBITOR that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients of KALBITOR ?
Active Ingredient : ecallantide Inactive ingredients : disodium hydrogen orthophosphate ( dihydrate ) , monopotassium phosphate , potassium chloride , sodium chloride in water for injection .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
For more information , visit www . kalbitor . com or call 1 - 800 - 828 - 2088 .
Manufactured by : Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
Lexington , MA 02421 U . S . License No . 1898 KALBITOR ® is a registered trademark of Dyax Corp . , a Takeda company .
TAKEDA ® and the TAKEDA Logo ® are registered trademarks of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited .
© 2021 Takeda Pharmaceuticals U . S . A . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Revised : 11 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg / mL Vial Carton ATTENTION : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
NDC # 47783 - 101 - 01 KALBITOR ® ecallantide 10 mg / mL Injection For Subcutaneous Use Only Single Use ; Discard Unused Portion Net Quantity : 3 Vials Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
