Active ingredient Octinoxate 4 . 0 % Titanium Dioxide 2 . 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on • damaged or broken skin .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • if rash occurs .
Keep Out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours .
• Use water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients water , talc , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , potassium cetyl phosphate , cyclopentasiloxane , glyceryl myristate , isononyl isononanoate , behenyl alcohol , mineral oil , glycerin , propylene glycol , microcrystalline cellulose , cellulose gum , phenoxyethanol , ethylhexylglycerin , nylon - 12 , fragance , triethanolamine , ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , iron oxides , butylene glycol , allantoin , caffeine , ascorbic acid , disodium EDTA , tocopheryl actetate ( vitamin E ) , BHT , hyaluronic acid .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel CAREONE ® bb cream skin perfector broad spectrum spf 15 sunscreen LIGHT / MEDIUM Helps brighten & even skin tone Moisturizes & renews UVA / UVB protection Compare to Garnier ® Skin Renew Miracle Skin Protector B . B . Cream SPF 15 2 . 5 FL OZ ( 75 mL ) Our BB Cream ( Beauty Balm Cream ) is a hybrid formula that provides instant skin coverage together with advanced skin care , combining several beauty steps in one product .
Skin Perfector is an innovative all - in - one product that gives instant results that can be both felt and seen .
Skin is beautifully smooth and even with an " airbrushed " appearance .
The lightweight texture blends perfectly into skin for a sheer perfect finish .
The all - in - one formulation combines vitamin C with mineral pigments and intense moisturization for instantly transformed skin .
Directions for Use : Gently smooth Skin Corrective Innovative Skin Perfector onto face and neck prior to exposure to the sun .
Formula Essentials : • Dermatology tested • Non - comedogenic ( wo n't clog pores ) • Gentle to skin • Non - greasy Problem : Skin discolorations , dullness , blemishes and dryness can be caused by a number of different factors .
It is difficult to find one product that will address all these factors at once .
The Answer : The new Skin Corrective Innovative Skin Perfector instantly and effectively fulfils all your skincare expectations .
Save time with this all - in - one multi - care product that combines instant skin coverage together with advanced skin care .
Results : Instantly skin looks naturally more even - toned , smooth and radiant • Radiance is renewed • Complexion is brightened • Skin tone is evened out and imprefections are blurred • 24 - hour hydration • SPF15 sunscreen protects against the harmful effects of the sun * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Garnier ® , owner of the registered trademark Skin Renew .
DISTRIBUTED BY FOODHOLD , U . S . A . , LLC LANDOVER , MD 20785 1 - 877 - 846 - 9949 © 2013 S & S Brands , LLC MANUFACTURED IN ISRAEL Quality guaranteed or your money back .
6A418 D4 C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
