Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 2 % Octocrylene 4 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl bezoate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Alcohol denat , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Methyparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) Xanthan gum , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium hyaluronate , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxychromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexyglycerin , silica , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
New York NY 10005 www . boots . com Description This gift contains : No7 Beautiful Skin Cleansing Brush No7 Beautiful Skin Melting Gel Cleanser 150 ml e 5 US FL . Oz No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Eye Cream 15 ml e 0 . 5 US Fl . Oz No7 Beautiful Skin Cleansing Brush The first step to beautiful skin is effective cleansing .
This clever brush deeply cleanses and exfoliates , helping to stimulate skin and revealing a super clean , soft and radiant complexion .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Day Cream Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz Smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and help delay new ones with No7 ' s protecting and renewing daytime formula .
It is the perfect partner to our Protect and Perfect Intense Advances Serum .
Formulated to be used together to deliver even better results than serum alone .
With the protective power of SPF 15 giving your skin protection from the sun and environmental stress .
For Best Results : After cleansing , simply smooth into your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
No7 Beautiful Skin Melting Gel Cleanser 150 ml e 5 US Fl . Oz .
Specially formulated to effectively clear away dirt and impurities , this gel cleanser transforms as you massage into the skin developing into a non - drying oil to help hydrate and energise skin annd to help lock in moisture .
It then changes into a milk formula for easier rinsing , so skin is left residue - free and totally refreshed .
For Best Results : Massage into damp skin and wash away with warm water .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Eye Cream 15 ml e 0 . 5 Us Fl .
Oz .
Smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and help delay new ones with No7 ' s Advanced protecting and renewing eye cream .
Supercharged by Matrixyl 3000 Plus TM , our unique and most concentrated peptide technology to target deep lines and wrinkles .
Especially designed for the delicate area around your eyes , it targets troublesome wrinkles whilst visibly improving dark shadows and puffiness .
Contains No7 ' s best antioxidant protection , Double Defence technology .
For Best Results : Use morning and evening , dot around eyes and gently blend around contours .
No7 Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
Smooth the appearance of deep lines and wrinkles and help your skin recover from the day with No7 ' s Protect and Perfect Intense Night Cream .
Created to work in harmony with your skin ' s natural night time repair processes .
It is the perfect partner to our Protect and Perfect Intense Advanced Serum .
Formulated to be used together to deliver even better results than serum alone .
For Best Results : Use every night after cleansing .
Simply smooth into your face and neck with your fingertips , avoiding your eyes .
carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
