Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram of Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser contains 98 mg of Sodium Sulfacetamide and 48 mg of Sulfur in a formulation containing Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Extract , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cetyl Alcohol , Disodium Oleamido MEA Sulfosuccinate , Edetate Disodium , Fragrance , Glycerin , Glyceryl Monostearate , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Methylparaben , PEG - 100 Stearate , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl Alcohol and Xanthan Gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is not known , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser is indicated in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfonamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General - If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for patients - Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility - Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser .
It is not known whether Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Wash affected areas once or twice daily , or as directed by your physician .
Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If skin dryness occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off sooner or using less frequently .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser is supplied in a 10 oz ( 285 g ) bottle ( NDC 42192 - 156 - 10 ) .
STORAGE Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) , excursions permitted between 15º and 30ºC ( between 59º and 86ºF ) .
[ See USP , “ Controlled Room Temperature . ” ]
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
All prescription substitutions using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each such person ’ s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluating the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical formulation information provided herein .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC Alpharetta , GA 30022 1 - 800 - 541 - 4802 Rev . 0916 - 04 NDC 42192 - 156 - 10 Sodium Sulfacetamide 9 . 8 % - Sulfur 4 . 8 % Cleanser Rx Only Net Wt .
10 oz ( 285 g ) Acella Pharmaceuticals , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
