Dear Medical Professional , Per your order , we have compounded I - 123 in Mini Cap form .
The characteristics of this compound are : DESCRIPTION Sodium Iodide I - 123 ( NaI - 123 ) for diagnostic use is supplied for oral administration in a small opaque white gelatin capsule , which is placed inside a red and clear outer capsule .
The capsules are available in strengths up to 10 mCi of I - 123 at a specific time .
Gelatin capsules are compounded , per prescription requirements , using high specific concentration I - 123 , allowing higher iodine activity in a small easy to swallow capsule size . The radionuclidic composition at calibration is not less than 97 . 0 percent I - 123 , not more than 2 . 9 percent I - 125 and not more than 0 . 1 percent Te - 121 .
The radionuclidic composition at expiration time is not less than 87 . 2 percent I - 123 , not more than 12 . 4 percent I - 125 and not more than 0 . 4 percent Te - 121 .
The ratio of the concentration of I - 123 and I - 125 changes with time .
Iodine - 123 has a physical half - life of 13 . 2 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Administration of Sodium Iodide I - 123 is indicated as a diagnostic procedure to be used in evaluating thyroid function and / or morphology DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Anti - thyroid therapy of a severely hyperthyroid patient is usually discontinued three to four days before administration of radioiodide .
For hyperthyroidism , the usual dose range is 4 to 10 mCi .
Toxic nodular goiter and other special situations will require the use of larger doses .
For thyroid carcinoma , 50 mCi is the usual dose for ablation of normal thyroid tissue , and 100 to 150 mCi is the usual subsequent therapeutic dose .
Waterproof gloves should be used during the entire handling and administration procedure .
Adequate shielding must be maintained .
CLINICAL UTILITY .
Sodium Iodide I - 123 is readily absorbed from the upper gastrointestinal tract .
Following absorption , the iodide is distributed primarily within the extracellular fluid of the body .
It is trapped and organically bound by the thyroid and concentrated by the stomach , choroid plexus and salivary glands .
It is excreted by the kidneys .
The fraction of the administered dose which is accumulated in the thyroid gland may be a measure of thyroid function in the absence of unusually high or low iodine intake or administration of certain drugs which influence iodine accumulation by the thyroid gland .
Normal subjects can accumulate approximately 10 to 50 % of the administered iodine dose in the thyroid gland , however , the normal and abnormal ranges are established by individual physician ’ s criteria .
The mapping ( imaging ) of Sodium Iodide I - 123 distribution in the thyroid gland may provide useful information concerning thyroid anatomy and definition of normal and / or abnormal functioning of tissue within the gland Thank you , AnazaoHealth Corporation PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
