DRUG FACTS : ACTIVE INGREDIENT Acetaminophen 325 mg USES Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to • the common cold • headache • backache • minor pain of arthritis • toothache • muscular aches • menstrual cramps Temporarily reduces fever KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN INDICATIONS & USAGE do not take more then directed adults and children 12 years and over take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed .
Do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours .
children 6 to under 12 years take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours as needed .
Do not take nore than 5 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years consult a doctor .
Do not use this adult regular strength product in children under 6 years of age , this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) acetominophen and may cause liver damage .
Tamper Evident : do not use if imprinted safety seal under cap is broken or missingStore between 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) Use by expiration date on packageTo report adverse drug events call 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 WARNINGS Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if • Adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • Child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • Taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • Adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use • With any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist • if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults and children • Pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years • Fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • New symptoms occur • Redness or swelling is present These could be sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In the case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Directions • do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) .
Adults and children 12 years and over Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 while symptoms last .
Do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years Take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 while symptoms last .
Do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours .
Children under 6 years Do not use adult regular strength products in childern under 6 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) and may cause liver damage .
Other information • Tamper Evident : do not use if imprinted safety seal under cap is broken or missing • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • use by expiration date on package INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 12634 - 111 - 74 Acetaminophen NON - ASPIRIN Pain & Fever Reliever RejuviLife 24 TABLETS 325 MG Distributed by : RejuviLife , Phoenix , AZ RejuviLife is a trademark of Apotheca , Inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
