SALAGEN ® Tablets ( pilocarpinehydrochloride ) DESCRIPTION SALAGEN ® Tablets contain pilocarpine hydrochloride , a cholinergic agonist for oral use .
Pilocarpine hydrochloride is a hygroscopic , odorless , bitter tasting white crystal or powder which is soluble in water and alcohol and virtually insoluble in most non - polar solvents .
Pilocarpine hydrochloride , with a chemical name of ( 3 S - cis ) - 2 ( 3 H ) - Furanone , 3 - ethyl - dihydro - 4 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 5 - yl ) methyl ] mono - hydrochloride , has a molecular weight of 244 . 72 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 5 mg SALAGEN ® Tablet for oral administration contains 5 mg of pilocarpine hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients in the tablet , the tablet ’ s film coating , and polishing are : carnauba wax , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , stearic acid , titanium dioxide and other ingredients .
Each 7 . 5 mg SALAGEN ® Tablet for oral administration contains 7 . 5 mg of pilocarpine hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients in the tablet , the tablet ’ s film coating , and polishing are : carnauba wax , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , stearic acid , titanium dioxide , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , and other ingredients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics : Pilocarpine is a cholinergic parasympathomimetic agent exerting a broad spectrum of pharmacologic effects with predominant muscarinic action .
Pilocarpine , in appropriate dosage , can increase secretion by the exocrine glands .
The sweat , salivary , lacrimal , gastric , pancreatic , and intestinal glands and the mucous cells of the respiratory tract may be stimulated .
When applied topically to the eye as a single dose it causes miosis , spasm of accommodation , and may cause a transitory rise in intraocular pressure followed by a more persistent fall .
Dose - related smooth muscle stimulation of the intestinal tract may cause increased tone , increased motility , spasm , and tenesmus .
Bronchial smooth muscle tone may increase .
The tone and motility of urinary tract , gallbladder , and biliary duct smooth muscle may be enhanced .
Pilocarpine may have paradoxical effects on the cardiovascular system .
The expected effect of a muscarinic agonist is vasodepression , but administration of pilocarpine may produce hypertension after a brief episode of hypotension .
Bradycardia and tachycardia have both been reported with use of pilocarpine .
In a study of 12 healthy male volunteers there was a dose - related increase in unstimulated salivary flow following single 5 and 10 mg oral doses of SALAGEN ® Tablets .
This effect of pilocarpine on salivary flow was time - related with an onset at 20 minutes and a peak effect at 1 hour with a duration of 3 to 5 hours ( See Pharmacokineticssection ) .
Head & Neck Cancer Patients : In a 12 week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 207 patients ( placebo , N = 65 ; 5 mg , N = 73 ; 10 mg , N = 69 ) , increases from baseline ( means 0 . 072 and 0 . 112 mL / min , ranges - 0 . 690 to 0 . 728 and - 0 . 380 to 1 . 689 ) of whole saliva flow for the 5 mg ( 63 % ) and 10 mg ( 90 % ) tablet , respectively , were seen 1 hour after the first dose of SALAGEN ® Tablets .
Increases in unstimulated parotid flow were seen following the first dose ( means 0 . 025 and 0 . 046 mL / min , ranges 0 to 0 . 414 and - 0 . 070 to 1 . 002 mL / min for the 5 and 10 mg dose , respectively ) .
In this study , no correlation existed between the amount of increase in salivary flow and the degree of symptomatic relief .
Sjogren ’ s Syndrome Patients : In two 12 week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies in 629 patients ( placebo , N = 253 ; 2 . 5 mg , N = 121 ; 5 mg , N = 255 ; 5 - 7 . 5 mg , N = 114 ) , the ability of SALAGEN ® Tablets to stimulate saliva production was assessed .
In these trials using varying doses of SALAGEN ® Tablets ( 2 . 5 - 7 . 5 mg ) , the rate of saliva production was plotted against time .
An Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) representing the total amount of saliva produced during the observation interval was calculated .
Relative to placebo , an increase in the amount of saliva being produced was observed following the first dose of SALAGEN ® Tablets and was maintained throughout the duration ( 12 weeks ) of the trials in an approximate dose response fashion ( See Clinical Studiessection ) .
Pharmacokinetics : In a multiple - dose pharmacokinetic study in male volunteers following 2 days of 5 or 10 mg of oral pilocarpine hydrochloride tablets given at 8 a . m . , noontime , and 6 p . m . , the mean elimination half - life was 0 . 76 hours for the 5 mg dose and 1 . 35 hours for the 10 mg dose .
Tmax values were 1 . 25 hours and 0 . 85 hours .
Cmax values were 15 ng / mL and 41 ng / mL .
The AUC trapezoidal values were 33 h ( ng / mL ) and 108 h ( ng / mL ) , respectively , for the 5 and 10 mg doses following the last 6 hour dose .
Pharmacokinetics in elderly male volunteers ( N = 11 ) were comparable to those in younger men .
In five healthy elderly female volunteers , the mean Cmax and AUC were approximately twice that of elderly males and young normal male volunteers .
When taken with a high fat meal by 12 healthy male volunteers , there was a decrease in the rate of absorption of pilocarpine from SALAGEN ® Tablets .
Mean Tmax ’ swere 1 . 47 and 0 . 87 hours , and mean Cmax ’ s were 51 . 8 and 59 . 2 ng / mL for fed and fasted , respectively .
Limited information is available about the metabolism and elimination of pilocarpine in humans .
Inactivation of pilocarpine is thought to occur at neuronal synapses and probably in plasma .
Pilocarpine and its minimally active or inactive degradation products , including pilocarpic acid , are excreted in the urine .
Pilocarpine does not bind to human or rat plasma proteins over a concentration range of 5 to 25 , 000 ng / mL .
The effect of pilocarpine on plasma protein binding of other drugs has not been evaluated .
In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( N = 12 ) , administration of a single 5 mg dose resulted in a 30 % decrease in total plasma clearance and a doubling of exposure ( as measured by AUC ) .
Peak plasma levels were also increased by about 30 % and half - life was increased to 2 . 1 hrs .
There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oral pilocarpine in volunteer subjects ( N = 8 ) with renal insufficiency ( mean creatinine clearances 25 . 4 mL / min ; range 9 . 8 - 40 . 8 mL / min ) compared to the pharmacokinetics previously observed in normal volunteers .
CLINICAL STUDIES Head & Neck Cancer Patients : A 12 week randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 207 patients ( 142 men , 65 women ) was conducted in patients whose mean age was 58 . 5 years with a range of 19 to 77 ; the racial distribution was Caucasian 95 % , Black 4 % , and other 1 % .
In this population , a statistically significant improvement in mouth dryness occurred in the 5 and 10 mg SALAGEN ® Tablet treated patients compared to placebo treated patients .
The 5 and 10 mg treated patients could not be distinguished .
( See Pharmacodynamicssection for flow study details . )
Another 12 week , double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 162 patients whose mean age was 57 . 8 years with a range of 27 to 80 ; the racial distribution was Caucasian 88 % , Black 10 % , and other 2 % .
The effects of placebo were compared to 2 . 5 mg three times a day of SALAGEN ® Tablets for 4 weeks followed by adjustment to 5 mg three times a day and 10 mg three times a day .
Lowering of the dose was necessary because of adverse events in 3 of 67 patients treated with 5 mg of SALAGEN ® Tablets and in 7 of 66 patients treated with 10 mg of SALAGEN ® Tablets .
After 4 weeks of treatment , 2 . 5 mg of SALAGEN ® Tablets three times a day was comparable to placebo in relieving dryness .
In patients treated with 5 mg and 10 mg of SALAGEN ® Tablets , the greatest improvement in dryness was noted in patients with no measurable salivary flow at baseline .
In both studies , some patients noted improvement in the global assessment of their dry mouth , speaking without liquids , and a reduced need for supplemental oral comfort agents .
In the two placebo - controlled clinical trials , the most common adverse events related to drug , and increasing in rate as dose increases , were sweating , nausea , rhinitis , diarrhea , chills , flushing , urinary frequency , dizziness , and asthenia .
The most common adverse experience causing withdrawal from treatment was sweating ( 5 mg t . i . d . ≤ 1 % ; 10 mg t . i . d . = 12 % ) .
Sjogren ’ s Syndrome Patients : Two separate studies were conducted in patients with primary or secondary Sjogren ’ s Syndrome .
In both studies , the majority of patients best fit the European criteria for having primary Sjogren ’ s Syndrome .
[ “ Criteria for the Classification of Sjogren ’ s Syndrome ” ( Vitali C , Bombardieri S , Moutsopoulos HM , et al : Preliminary criteria for the classification of Sjogren ’ s Syndrome .
Arthritis Rheum .
1993 ; 36 : 340 - 347 . ) ]
A 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 256 patients ( 14 men , 242 women ) whose mean age was 57 years with a range of 24 to 85 years .
The racial distribution was as follows : Caucasian 91 % , Black 6 % , and other 3 % .
The effects of placebo were compared with those of SALAGEN ® Tablets 5 mg four times a day ( 20 mg / day ) for 6 weeks .
At 6 weeks , the patients ’ dosage was increased from 5 mg SALAGEN ® Tablets q . i . d . to 7 . 5 mg q . i . d .
The data collected during the first 6 weeks of the trial were evaluated for safety and efficacy , and the data of the second 6 weeks of the trial were used to provide additional evidence of safety .
After 6 weeks of treatment , statistically significant global improvement of dry mouth was observed compared to placebo .
“ Global improvement ” is defined as a score of 55 mm or more on a 100 mm visual analogue scale in response to the question , “ Please rate your present condition of dry mouth ( xerostomia ) compared with your condition at the start of this study .
Consider the changes to your dry mouth and other symptoms related to your dry mouth that have occurred since you have taken this medication . ”
Patients ’ assessments of specific dry mouth symptoms such as severity of dry mouth , mouth discomfort , ability to speak without water , ability to sleep without drinking water , ability to swallow food without drinking , and a decreased use of saliva substitutes were found to be consistent with the significant global improvement described .
Another 12 week randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 373 patients ( 16 men , 357 women ) whose mean age was 55 years with a range of 21 to 84 .
The racial distribution was Caucasian 80 % , Oriental 14 % , Black 2 % , and 4 % of other origin .
The treatment groups were 2 . 5 mg pilocarpine tablets , 5 mg SALAGEN ® Tablets , and placebo .
All treatments were administered on a four times a day regimen .
After 12 weeks of treatment , statistically significant global improvement of dry mouth was observed at a dose of 5 mg compared with placebo .
The 2 . 5 mg ( 10 mg / day ) group was not significantly different than placebo .
However , a subgroup of patients with rheumatoid arthritis tended to improve in global assessments at both the 2 . 5 mg q . i . d . ( 9 patients ) and 5 mg q . i . d . ( 16 patients ) dose ( 10 - 20 mg / day ) .
The clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Patients ’ assessments of specific dry mouth symptoms such as severity of dry mouth , mouth discomfort , ability to sleep without drinking water , and decreased use of saliva substitutes were also found to be consistent with the significant global improvement described when measured after 6 weeks and 12 weeks of SALAGEN ® Tablets use .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE SALAGEN ® Tablets are indicated for 1 ) the treatment of symptoms of dry mouth from salivary gland hypofunction caused by radiotherapy for cancer of the head and neck ; and 2 ) the treatment of symptoms of dry mouth in patients with Sjogren ’ s Syndrome .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SALAGEN ® Tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled asthma , known hypersensitivity to pilocarpine , and when miosis is undesirable , e . g . , in acute iritis and in narrow - angle ( angle closure ) glaucoma .
WARNINGS Cardiovascular Disease : Patients with significant cardiovascular disease may be unable to compensate for transient changes in hemodynamics or rhythm induced by pilocarpine .
Pulmonary edema has been reported as a complication of pilocarpine toxicity from high ocular doses given for acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Pilocarpine should be administered with caution in and under close medical supervision of patients with significant cardiovascular disease .
Ocular : Ocular formulations of pilocarpine have been reported to cause visual blurring which may result in decreased visual acuity , especially at night and in patients with central lens changes , and to cause impairment of depth perception .
Caution should be advised while driving at night or performing hazardous activities in reduced lighting .
Pulmonary Disease : Pilocarpine has been reported to increase airway resistance , bronchial smooth muscle tone , and bronchial secretions .
Pilocarpine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to and under close medical supervision in patients with controlled asthma , chronic bronchitis , or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring pharmacotherapy .
PRECAUTIONS General Pilocarpine toxicity is characterized by an exaggeration of its parasympathomimetic effects .
These may include : headache , visual disturbance , lacrimation , sweating , respiratory distress , gastrointestinal spasm , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , atrioventricular block , tachycardia , bradycardia , hypotension , hypertension , shock , mental confusion , cardiac arrhythmia , and tremors .
The dose - related cardiovascular pharmacologic effects of pilocarpine include hypotension , hypertension , bradycardia , and tachycardia .
Pilocarpine should be administered with caution to patients with known or suspected cholelithiasis or biliary tract disease .
Contractions of the gallbladder or biliary smooth muscle could precipitate complications including cholecystitis , cholangitis , and biliary obstruction .
Pilocarpine may increase ureteral smooth muscle tone and could theoretically precipitate renal colic ( or “ ureteral reflux ” ) , particularly in patients with nephrolithiasis .
Cholinergic agonists may have dose - related central nervous system effects .
This should be considered when treating patients with underlying cognitive or psychiatric disturbances .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Based on decreased plasma clearance observed in patients with moderate hepatic impairment , the starting dose in these patients should be 5 mg twice daily , followed by adjustment based on therapeutic response and tolerability .
Patients with mild hepatic insufficiency ( Child - Pugh score of 5 - 6 ) do not require dosage reductions .
To date , pharmacokinetic studies in subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 - 15 ) have not been carried out .
The use of pilocarpine in these patients is not recommended .
Child - Pugh Scoring System for Hepatic Impairment Clinical and Biochemical Measurements Points Scored for Increasing Abnormality 1 2 3 Encephalopathy ( grade ) * None 1 and 2 3 and 4 Ascites Absent Slight Moderate Bilirubin ( mg .
per 100 mL ) 1 - 2 2 - 3 > 3 Albumin ( g . per 100 mL ) 3 - 5 2 . 8 - 3 . 5 < 2 . 8 Prothrombin Time ( sec .
Prolonged ) 1 - 4 4 - 6 > 6 For Primary Biliary Cirrhosis : - Bilirubin ( mg .
per100 mL ) 1 - 4 4 - 10 > 10 * According to grading of Trey C , Burns D , and Saunders S . Treatment of hepatic coma by exchange blood transfusion .
N Engl J Med .
1966 ; 274 : 473 - 481 .
Reference : Pugh RNH , Murray - Lyon IM , Dawson JL , Pietroni MC , Williams R . Transection of the oesophagus for bleeding oesophageal varices .
Brit J Surg .
1973 ; 60 : 646 - 9 .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that pilocarpine may cause visual disturbances , especially at night , that could impair their ability to drive safely .
If a patient sweats excessively while taking pilocarpine hydrochloride and cannot drink enough liquid , the patient should consult a physician .
Dehydration may develop .
Drug Interactions Pilocarpine should be administered with caution to patients taking beta - adrenergic antagonists because of the possibility of conduction disturbances .
Drugs with parasympathomimetic effects administered concurrently with pilocarpine would be expected to result in additive pharmacologic effects .
Pilocarpine might antagonize the anticholinergic effects of drugs used concomitantly .
These effects should be considered when anticholinergic properties may be contributing to the therapeutic effect of concomitant medication ( e . g . , atropine , inhaled ipratropium ) .
While no formal drug interaction studies have been performed , the following concomitant drugs were used in at least 10 % of patients in either or both Sjogren ’ s efficacy studies : acetylsalicylic acid , artificial tears , calcium , conjugated estrogens , hydroxychloroquine sulfate , ibuprofen , levothyroxine sodium , medroxyprogesterone acetate , methotrexate , multivitamins , naproxen , omeprazole , paracetamol , and prednisone .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment ofFertility Lifetime oral carcinogenicity studies were conducted in CD - 1 mice and Sprague - Dawley rats .
Pilocarpine did not induce tumors in mice at any dosage studied ( up to 30 mg / kg / day , which yielded a systemic exposure approximately 50 times larger than the maximum systemic exposure observed clinically ) .
In rats , a dosage of 18 mg / kg / day , which yielded a systemic exposure approximately 100 times larger than the maximum systemic exposure observed clinically , resulted in a statistically significant increase in the incidence of benign pheochromocytomas in both males and females , and a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular adenomas in female rats .
The tumorigenicity observed in rats was observed only at a large multiple of the maximum labeled clinical dose , and may not be relevant to clinical use .
No evidence that pilocarpine has the potential to cause genetic toxicity was obtained in a series of studies that included : 1 ) bacterial assays ( Salmonella and E . coli ) for reverse gene mutations ; 2 ) an in vitro chromosome aberration assay in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line ; 3 ) an in vivo chromosome aberration assay ( micronucleus test ) in mice ; and 4 ) a primary DNA damage assay ( unscheduled DNA synthesis ) in rat hepatocyte primary cultures .
Oral administration of pilocarpine to male and female rats at a dosage of 18 mg / kg / day , which yielded a systemic exposure approximately 100 times larger than the maximum systemic exposure observed clinically , resulted in impaired reproductive function , including reduced fertility , decreased sperm motility , and morphologic evidence of abnormal sperm .
It is unclear whether the reduction in fertility was due to effects on male animals , female animals , or both males and females .
In dogs , exposure to pilocarpine at a dosage of 3 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human dose when compared on the basis of body surface area ( mg / m2 ) estimates ) for six months resulted in evidence of impaired spermatogenesis .
The data obtained in these studies suggest that pilocarpine may impair the fertility of male and female humans .
SALAGEN ® Tablets should be administered to individuals who are attempting to conceive a child only if the potential benefit justifies potential impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Pilocarpine was associated with a reduction in the mean fetal body weight and an increase in the incidence of skeletal variations when given to pregnant rats at a dosage of 90 mg / kg / day ( approximately 26 times the maximum recommended dose for a 50 kg human when compared on the basis of body surface area ( mg / m2 ) estimates ) .
These effects may have been secondary to maternal toxicity .
In another study , oral administration of pilocarpine to female rats during gestation and lactation at a dosage of 36 mg / kg / day ( approximately 10 times the maximum recommended dose for a 50 kg human when compared on the basis of body surface area ( mg / m2 ) estimates ) resulted in an increased incidence of stillbirths ; decreased neonatal survival and reduced mean body weight of pups were observed at dosages of 18 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the maximum recommended dose for a 50 kg human when compared on the basis of body surface area ( mg / m2 ) estimates ) and above .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
SALAGEN ® Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from SALAGEN ® Tablets , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Head & Neck Cancer Patients : In the placebo - controlled clinical trials ( See Clinical Studiessection ) the mean age of patients was approximately 58 years ( range 19 to 80 ) .
Of these patients , 97 / 369 ( 61 / 217 receiving pilocarpine ) were over the age of 65 years .
In the healthy volunteer studies , 15 / 150 subjects were over the age of 65 years .
In both study populations , the adverse events reported by those over 65 years and those 65 years and younger were comparable .
Of the 15 elderly volunteers ( 5 women , 10 men ) , the 5 women had higher Cmax ’ s and AUC ’ s than the men .
( See Pharmacokineticssection . )
Sjogren ’ s Syndrome Patients : In the placebo - controlled clinical trials ( See Clinical Studiessection ) , the mean age of patients was approximately 55 years ( range 21 to 85 ) .
The adverse events reported by those over 65 years and those 65 years and younger were comparable except for notable trends for urinary frequency , diarrhea , and dizziness ( See ADVERSE REACTIONSsection ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Head & Neck Cancer Patients : In controlled studies , 217 patients received pilocarpine , of whom 68 % were men and 32 % were women .
Race distribution was 91 % Caucasian , 8 % Black , and 1 % of other origin .
Mean age was approximately 58 years .
The majority of patients were between 50 and 64 years ( 51 % ) , 33 % were 65 years and older and 16 % were younger than 50 years of age .
The most frequent adverse experiences associated with SALAGEN ® Tablets were a consequence of the expected pharmacologic effects of pilocarpine .
Adverse Event Pilocarpine HCI Placebo 10 mg t . i . d . ( 30 mg / day ) 5 mg t . i . d . ( 15 mg / day ) ( t . i . d . ) Sweating N = 121 / 68 % N = 141 / 29 % N = 152 / 9 % Nausea 15 6 4 Rhinitis 14 5 7 Diarrhea 7 4 5 Chills 15 3 < 1 Flushing 13 8 3 Urinary Frequency 12 9 7 Dizziness 12 5 4 Asthenia 12 6 3 In addition , the following adverse events ( ≥ 3 % incidence ) were reported at dosages of 15 - 30 mg / day in the controlled clinical trials : Adverse Event Pilocarpine HCI Placebo 5 - 10 mg t . i . d . ( 15 - 30 mg / day ) ( t . i . d . ) Headache N = 212 / 11 % N = 152 / 8 % Dyspepsia 7 5 Lacrimation 6 8 Edema 5 4 Abdominal Pain 4 4 Amblyopia 4 2 Vomiting 4 1 Pharyngitis 3 8 Hypertension 3 1 The following events were reported with treated head and neck cancer patients at incidences of 1 % to 2 % at dosages of 7 . 5 to 30 mg / day : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , dysphagia , epistaxis , myalgias , pruritus , rash , sinusitis , tachycardia , taste perversion , tremor , voice alteration .
The following events were reported rarely in treated head and neck cancer patients ( < 1 % ) : Causal relation is unknown .
Body as a whole : body odor , hypothermia , mucous membrane abnormality Cardiovascular : bradycardia , ECG abnormality , palpitations , syncope Digestive : anorexia , increased appetite , esophagitis , gastrointestinal disorder , tongue disorder Hematologic : leukopenia , lymphadenopathy Nervous : anxiety , confusion , depression , abnormal dreams , hyperkinesia , hypesthesia , nervousness , parethesias , speech disorder , twitching Respiratory : increased sputum , stridor , yawning Skin : seborrhea Special senses : deafness , eye pain , glaucoma Urogenital : dysuria , metrorrhagia , urinary impairment In long - term treatment were two patients with underlying cardiovascular disease of whom one experienced a myocardial infarct and another an episode of syncope .
The association with drug is uncertain .
Sjogren ’ s Syndrome Patients : In controlled studies , 376 patients received pilocarpine , of whom 5 % were men and 95 % were women .
Race distribution was 84 % Caucasian , 9 % Oriental , 3 % Black , and 4 % of other origin .
Mean age was 55 years .
The majority of patients were between 40 and 69 years ( 70 % ) , 16 % were 70 years and older and 14 % were younger than 40 years of age .
Of these patients , 161 / 629 ( 89 / 376 receiving pilocarpine ) were over the age of 65 years .
The adverse events reported by those over 65 years and those 65 years and younger were comparable except for notable trends for urinary frequency , diarrhea , and dizziness .
The incidences of urinary frequency and diarrhea in the elderly were about double those of the non - elderly .
The incidence of dizziness was about three times as high in the elderly as in the non - elderly .
These adverse experiences were not considered to be serious .
In the 2 placebo - controlled studies , the most common adverse events related to drug use were sweating , urinary frequency , chills , and vasodilatation ( flushing ) .
The most commonly reported reason for patient discontinuation of treatment was sweating .
Expected pharmacologic effects of pilocarpine include the following adverse experiences associated with SALAGEN ® Tablets : Adverse Event Pilocarpine HCI Placebo 5 mg q . i . d . ( 20 mg / day ) ( q . i . d ) Sweating N = 255 / 40 % N = 253 / 7 % Urinary Frequency 10 4 Nausea 9 9 Flushing 9 2 Rhinitis 7 8 Diarrhea 6 7 Chills 4 2 Increased Salivation 3 0 Asthenia 2 2 In addition , the following adverse events ( ≥ 3 % incidence ) were reported at dosages of 20 mg / day in the controlled clinical trials : Adverse Event Pilocarpine HCI Placebo 5 mg q . i . d . ( 20 mg / day ) ( q . i . d ) Headache N = 255 / 13 % N = 253 / 19 % Flu Syndrome 9 9 Dyspepsia 7 7 Dizziness 6 7 Pain 4 2 Sinusitis 4 5 Abdominal Pain 3 4 Vomiting 3 1 Pharyngitis 2 5 Rash 2 3 Infection 2 6 The following events were reported in Sjogren ’ s patients at incidences of 1 % to 2 % at dosing of 20 mg / day : accidental injury , allergic reaction , back pain , blurred vision , constipation , increased cough , edema , epistaxis , face edema , fever , flatulence , glossitis , lab test abnormalities , including chemistry , hematology , and urinalysis , myalgia , palpitation , pruritus , somnolence , stomatitis , tachycardia , tinnitus , urinary incontinence , urinary tract infection , and vaginitis .
The following events were reported rarely in treated Sjogren ’ s patients ( < 1 % ) at dosing of 10 - 30 mg / day : Causal relation is unknown .
Body as a whole : chest pain , cyst , death , moniliasis , neck pain , neck rigidity , photosensitivity reaction Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , ECG abnormality , hypotension , hypertension , intracranial hemorrhage , migraine , myocardial infarction Digestive : anorexia , bilirubinemia , cholelithiasis , colitis , dry mouth , eructation , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal disorder , gingivitis , hepatitis , abnormal liver function tests , melena , nausea & vomiting , pancreatitis , parotid gland enlargement , salivary gland enlargement , sputum increased , taste loss , tongue disorder , tooth disorder Hematologic : hematuria , lymphadenopathy , abnormal platelets , thrombocythemia , thrombocytopenia , thrombosis , abnormal WBC Metabolic and Nutritional : peripheral edema , hypoglycemia Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , arthritis , bone disorder , spontaneous bone fracture , pathological fracture , myasthenia , tendon disorder , tenosynovitis Nervous : aphasia , confusion , depression , abnormal dreams , emotional lability , hyperkinesia , hypesthesia , insomnia , leg cramps , nervousness , parethesias , abnormal thinking , tremor Respiratory : bronchitis , dyspnea , hiccup , laryngismus , laryngitis , pneumonia , viral infection , voice alteration Skin : alopecia , contact dermatitis , dry skin , eczema , erythema nodosum , exfoliative dermatitis , herpes simplex , skin ulcer , vesiculobullous rash Special Senses : cataract , conjunctivitis , dry eyes , ear disorder , ear pain , eye disorder , eye hemorrhage , glaucoma , lacrimation disorder , retinal disorder , taste perversion , abnormal vision Urogenital : breast pain , dysuria , mastitis , menorrhagia , metrorrhagia , ovarian disorder , pyuria , salpingitis , urethral pain , urinary urgency , vaginal hemorrhage , vaginal moniliasis The following adverse experiences have been reported rarely with ocular pilocarpine : A - V block , agitation , ciliary congestion , confusion , delusion , depression , dermatitis , middle ear disturbance , eyelid twitching , malignant glaucoma , iris cysts , macular hole , shock , and visual hallucination .
MANAGEMENT OF OVERDOSE Fatal overdosage with pilocarpine has been reported in the scientific literature at doses presumed to be greater than 100 mg in two hospitalized patients .
100 mg of pilocarpine is considered potentially fatal .
Overdosage should be treated with atropine titration ( 0 . 5 mg to 1 . 0 mg given subcutaneously or intravenously ) and supportive measures to maintain respiration and circulation .
Epinephrine ( 0 . 3 mg to 1 . 0 mg , subcutaneously or intramuscularly ) may also be of value in the presence of severe cardiovascular depression or bronchoconstriction .
It is not known if pilocarpine is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Regardless of the indication , the starting dose in patients with moderate hepatic impairment should be 5 mg twice daily , followed by adjustment based on therapeutic response and tolerability .
Patients with mild hepatic insufficiency do not require dosage reductions .
The use of pilocarpine in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency is not recommended .
If needed , refer to the HepaticInsufficiency subsection of the Precautions section of this label for definitions of mild , moderate and severe hepatic impairment .
Head & Neck Cancer Patients : The recommended initial dose of SALAGEN ® Tablets is 5 mg taken three times a day .
Dosage should be titrated according to therapeutic response and tolerance .
The usual dosage range is up to 15 - 30 mg per day .
( Not to exceed 10 mg per dose . )
Although early improvement may be realized , at least 12 weeks of uninterrupted therapy with SALAGEN ® Tablets may be necessary to assess whether a beneficial response will be achieved .
The incidence of the most common adverse events increases with dose .
The lowest dose that is tolerated and effective should be used for maintenance .
Sjogren ’ s Syndrome Patients : The recommended dose of SALAGEN ® Tablets is 5 mg taken four times a day .
Efficacy was established by 6 weeks of use .
HOW SUPPLIED SALAGEN ® Tablets , 5 mg , are white , film coated , debossed round tablets , coded SAL 5 .
Each tablet contains 5 mg pilocarpine hydrochloride .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 62856 - 705 - 10 bottles of 100 Store up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
SALAGEN ® Tablets , 7 . 5 mg , are blue , film coated , debossed round tablets , coded SAL 7 . 5 .
Each tablet contains 7 . 5 mg pilocarpine hydrochloride .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 62856 - 775 - 10 bottles of 100 Store up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Patheon Inc . , Ontario , L5N 7K9 Manufactured for : Eisai Inc .
Woodcliff Lake , NJ 07677 © 2018 Eisai Inc .
June 2018 SALAGEN ® is a registered trademark of Eisai Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62856 - 705 - 10 Tablets SALAGEN ® ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ) 5 mg 100 film coated tablets - 5 mg each Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 62856 - 775 - 10 Tablets SALAGEN ® ( pilocarpine hydrochloride ) 7 . 5 mg 100 film coated tablets - 7 . 5 mg each Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
