Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each 7 . 5 mL 1 ½ tsp ) Dextromethorphan HBr , 15 mg Glyceryl Guaiacolate ( Guaifenesin ) , 150 mg Purposes Antitussive Expectorant Uses • for the temporary relief of cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passages of bothersome mucus , drain bronchial tubes , and make coughs more productive Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema .
When using this product do not use more than directed .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • coughs lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or a persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period 4 HOURS EVERY Adults and Children 12 years of age and over 10 mL ( 2 tsp ) Children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL ( 1 tsp ) Children 2 to under 6 years of age 2 . 5 mL ( ½ tsp ) Children under 2 years of age Consult physician Other information • Tamper evident feature : Do not use if inner seal is torn , broken or missing .
• Store at controlled room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
• Avoid excessive heat or humidity .
Inactive Ingredients Citric acid , glycerin , grape flavor , methyl paraben , potassium citrate , potassium sorbate , propyl paraben , purified water , sucralose Contains the same active ingredients as Sorbutuss ® NR * Dextromethorphan HBr ANTITUSSIVE Glyceryl Guaiacolate ( Guaifenesin ) EXPECTORANT Antihistamine & Decongestant Free SUGAR DYE & ALCOHOL FREE GRAPE FLAVOR Manufactured in the USA for Kramer Novis .
San Juan , PR 00917 Tel : ( 787 ) 767 - 2072 www . kramernovis . com * Sorbutuss ® NR is a registered trademark of Teral , Inc .
This product is not manufactured , distributed or marketed by Teral , Inc .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
