Active Ingredient Drug Facts Active Ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses • Cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) .
• Cures most jock inch ( tinea cruris ) and ring worm ( tinea corporis ) .
• Relieves itching , burning , cracking , and scaling which accompany these conditions .
Warnings • For external use only .
• Do not use in or near the mouth or eyes .
• Do not use for vaginal yeast infections .
When using this product , do not get into the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and consult a physician if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot or ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
Directions • Adult and children 2 years and older .
Children under 2 years : ask physician .
• Wash the affected area with soap and water and dry thoroughly before applying .
• For athlete ' s foot between the toes : apply to affected skin between and around the toes twice a day for 4 weeks ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a physician . Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• For jock itch and ringworm apply twice daily to affected skin for 2 weeks or as directed by a physician .
This product is not effective on the scalp or mails .
• Wash hands after each use .
Other Information • Do not use if seal on bottle is broken or is not visible .
• Store between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° and 85 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Cetyl Alcohol , Clotrimazole , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Disodium EDTA , Glyceryl Stearate , Hydroxyethylcellulose , lavandula Angustifolia Lavender Oil , Methylparaben , PEG - 100 Stearate , Polysorbate 60 , Propylparaben , Stearic Acid , Tea Tree Oil , Triethanolamine , Urea , Water .
Product Label Dr . Blaine ' s TINEACIDE ® Antifungal Cream Kills the skin fungus that causes fungal nails Treats mild to severe infections NET WT 1 . 25 OZ ( 35 g ) 5 FUNGUS FIGHTERS NEW and IMPROVED FORMULATION 100 % MONEY - BACK GUARANTEE !
[ MULTIMEDIA ] BONUS : Easy - Grip , Heavy - Duty Nail Clipper !
EXP .
Proudly made in the U . S . A . !
Please Recycle !
This package is made from recyclable materials .
Questions or Comments ?
Call ( 800 ) 307 - 8818 Monday - Friday 8 : 00 AM and 5 : 00 PM ( EST ) Blaine Labs Inc .
Santa Fe Springs , CA 90670 www . DrBlaines . com All rights reserved .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
