DESCRIPTION ALREX ® ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension , 0 . 2 % ) contains a sterile , topical anti - inflammatory corticosteroid for ophthalmic use .
Loteprednol etabonate is a white to off - white powder .
Loteprednol etabonate is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : chloromethyl 17α - [ ( ethoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - 11β - hydroxy - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carboxylate Each mL contains : ACTIVE : Loteprednol Etabonate 2 mg ( 0 . 2 % ) ; INACTIVES : Edetate Disodium , Glycerin , Povidone , Purified Water and Tyloxapol .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust the pH . The suspension is essentially isotonic with a tonicity of 250 to 310 mOsmol / kg .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 01 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing .
They inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation , leukocyte migration , capillary proliferation , fibroblast proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation associated with inflammation .
There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Corticosteroids are capable of producing a rise in intraocular pressure .
Loteprednol etabonate is structurally similar to other corticosteroids .
However , the number 20 position ketone group is absent .
It is highly lipid soluble which enhances its penetration into cells .
Loteprednol etabonate is synthesized through structural modifications of prednisolone - related compounds so that it will undergo a predictable transformation to an inactive metabolite .
Based upon in vivo and in vitro preclinical metabolism studies , loteprednol etabonate undergoes extensive metabolism to inactive carboxylic acid metabolites .
Results from a bioavailability study in normal volunteers established that plasma levels of loteprednol etabonate and Δ1 cortienic acid etabonate ( PJ 91 ) , its primary , inactive metabolite , were below the limit of quantitation ( 1 ng / mL ) at all sampling times .
The results were obtained following the ocular administration of one drop in each eye of 0 . 5 % loteprednol etabonate 8 times daily for 2 days or 4 times daily for 42 days .
This study suggests that limited ( < 1 ng / mL ) systemic absorption occurs with ALREX .
Clinical Studies : In two double - masked , placebo - controlled six - week environmental studies of 268 patients with seasonal allergic conjunctivitis , ALREX , when dosed four times per day was superior to placebo in the treatment of the signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
ALREX provided reduction in bulbar conjunctival injection and itching , beginning approximately 2 hours after instillation of the first dose and throughout the first 14 days of treatment .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALREX ophthalmic suspension is indicated for the temporary relief of the signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ALREX , as with other ophthalmic corticosteroids , is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
ALREX is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution .
PRECAUTIONS General : For ophthalmic use only .
The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 14 days should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored .
Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
Information for Patients : This product is sterile when packaged .
Patients should be advised not to allow the dropper tip to touch any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
If redness or itching becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to consult a physician .
Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red .
ALREX should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation .
The preservative in ALREX , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red , should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling ALREX before they insert their contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of loteprednol etabonate .
Loteprednol etabonate was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma tk assay , or in a chromosome aberration test in human lymphocytes , or in vivo in the single dose mouse micronucleus assay .
Treatment of male and female rats with up to 50 mg / kg / day and 25 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate , respectively , ( 1 , 500 and 750 times the maximum clinical dose , respectively ) prior to and during mating did not impair fertility in either gender .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects : Loteprednol etabonate has been shown to be embryotoxic ( delayed ossification ) and teratogenic ( increased incidence of meningocele , abnormal left common carotid artery , and limb flexures ) when administered orally to rabbits during organogenesis at a dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( 85 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) , a dose which caused no maternal toxicity .
The no - observed - effect - level ( NOEL ) for these effects was 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the maximum daily clinical dose ) .
Oral treatment of rats during organogenesis resulted in teratogenicity ( absent innominate artery at ≥ 5 mg / kg / day doses , and cleft palate and umbilical hernia at ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ) and embryotoxicity ( increased postimplantation losses at 100 mg / kg / day and decreased fetal body weight and skeletal ossification with ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ) .
Treatment of rats with 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the maximum clinical dose ) during organogenesis did not result in any reproductive toxicity .
Loteprednol etabonate was maternally toxic ( significantly reduced body weight gain during treatment ) when administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses of ≥ 5 mg / kg / day .
Oral exposure of female rats to 50 mg / kg / day of loteprednol etabonate from the start of the fetal period through the end of lactation , a maternally toxic treatment regimen ( significantly decreased body weight gain ) , gave rise to decreased growth and survival , and retarded development in the offspring during lactation ; the NOEL for these effects was 5 mg / kg / day .
Loteprednol etabonate had no effect on the duration of gestation or parturition when administered orally to pregnant rats at doses up to 50 mg / kg / day during the fetal period .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
ALREX ophthalmic suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Systemic steroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Caution should be exercised when ALREX is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids include elevated intraocular pressure , which may be associated with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex , and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera .
Ocular adverse reactions occurring in 5 - 15 % of patients treated with loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 5 % ) in clinical studies included abnormal vision / blurring , burning on instillation , chemosis , discharge , dry eyes , epiphora , foreign body sensation , itching , injection , and photophobia .
Other ocular adverse reactions occurring in less than 5 % of patients include conjunctivitis , corneal abnormalities , eyelid erythema , keratoconjunctivitis , ocular irritation / pain / discomfort , papillae , and uveitis .
Some of these events were similar to the underlying ocular disease being studied .
Non - ocular adverse reactions occurred in less than 15 % of patients .
These include headache , rhinitis and pharyngitis .
In a summation of controlled , randomized studies of individuals treated for 28 days or longer with loteprednol etabonate , the incidence of significant elevation of intraocular pressure ( ≥ 10 mm Hg ) was 2 % ( 15 / 901 ) among patients receiving loteprednol etabonate , 7 % ( 11 / 164 ) among patients receiving 1 % prednisolone acetate and 0 . 5 % ( 3 / 583 ) among patients receiving placebo .
Among the smaller group of patients who were studied with ALREX , the incidence of clinically significant increases in IOP ( ≥ 10 mm Hg ) was 1 % ( 1 / 133 ) with ALREX and 1 % ( 1 / 135 ) with placebo .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE VIGOROUSLY BEFORE USING .
One drop instilled into the affected eye ( s ) four times daily .
HOW SUPPLIED ALREX ® ( loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension , 0 . 2 % ) is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following sizes : • NDC 24208 - 353 - 055 mL in a 7 . 5 mL bottle • NDC 24208 - 353 - 1010 mL in a 10 mL bottle Storage : Store upright between 15 ° C to 25 ° C ( 59 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
DO NOT FREEZE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA ALREX is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Revised : 03 / 2022 9007907 ( Folded ) 9005507 ( Flat ) Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 9537903 AB35309 NDC 24208 - 353 - 10 Alrex ® loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension , 0 . 2 % FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Sterile Rx only 10 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
