Warnings and Precautions , Autoimmune Complications ( 5 . 4 ) 3 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE POTELIGEO is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mycosis fungoides ( MF ) or Sézary syndrome ( SS ) after at least one prior systemic therapy .
POTELIGEO is a CC chemokine receptor type 4 ( CCR4 ) - directed monoclonal antibody indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mycosis fungoides or Sézary syndrome after at least one prior systemic therapy ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion over at least 60 minutes on days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of the first 28 - day cycle and on days 1 and 15 of each subsequent cycle ( 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of POTELIGEO is 1 mg / kg administered as an intravenous infusion over at least 60 minutes .
Administer on days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of the first 28 - day cycle , then on days 1 and 15 of each subsequent 28 - day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Administer POTELIGEO within 2 days of the scheduled dose .
If a dose is missed , administer the next dose as soon as possible and resume dosing schedule .
Do not administer POTELIGEO subcutaneously or by rapid intravenous administration .
Recommended Premedications Administer premedication with diphenhydramine and acetaminophen for the first POTELIGEO infusion .
2 . 2 Dose Modifications for Toxicity Dermatologic Toxicity • Permanently discontinue POTELIGEO for life - threatening ( Grade 4 ) rash or for any Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) or toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If SJS or TEN is suspected , stop POTELIGEO and do not resume unless SJS or TEN has been excluded and the cutaneous reaction has resolved to Grade 1 or less .
• If moderate or severe ( Grades 2 or 3 ) rash occurs , interrupt POTELIGEO and administer at least 2 weeks of topical corticosteroids .
If rash improves to Grade 1 or less , POTELIGEO may be resumed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• If mild ( Grade 1 ) rash occurs , consider topical corticosteroids .
Infusion Reactions • Permanently discontinue POTELIGEO for a life - threatening ( Grade 4 ) infusion reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Temporarily interrupt the infusion of POTELIGEO for mild to severe ( Grades 1 to 3 ) infusion reactions and treat symptoms .
Reduce the infusion rate by at least 50 % when restarting the infusion after symptoms resolve .
If reaction recurs and is unmanageable , discontinue infusion .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• If an infusion reaction occurs , administer premedication ( such as diphenhydramine and acetaminophen ) for subsequent POTELIGEO infusions .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration Preparation • Visually inspect drug product solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
POTELIGEO is a clear to slightly opalescent colorless solution .
Discard the vial if cloudiness , discoloration , or particulates are observed .
• Calculate the dose ( mg / kg ) and number of vials of POTELIGEO needed to prepare the infusion solution based on patient weight .
• Aseptically withdraw the required volume of POTELIGEO into the syringe and transfer into an intravenous ( IV ) bag containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 0 . 1 mg / mL to 3 . 0 mg / mL .
• Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion .
Do not shake .
• Discard any unused portion left in the vial .
The diluted solution is compatible with polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) or polyolefin ( PO ) infusion bags .
Administration • Administer infusion solution over at least 60 minutes through an intravenous line containing a sterile , low protein binding , 0 . 22 micron ( or equivalent ) in - line filter .
• Do not mix POTELIGEO with other drugs .
• Do not co - administer other drugs through the same intravenous line .
Storage of Diluted Solution After preparation , infuse the POTELIGEO solution immediately , or store under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for no more than 24 hours from the time of infusion preparation .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 20 mg / 5 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) as a clear to slightly opalescent colorless solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 20 mg / 5 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Dermatologic Toxicity : Temporarily interrupt POTELIGEO for moderate or severe skin rashes .
Permanently discontinue POTELIGEO for life - threatening rash ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Infusion Reactions : Temporarily interrupt POTELIGEO for any infusion reaction .
Permanently discontinue POTELIGEO for any life - threatening infusion reaction ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Infections : Monitor and treat promptly ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Autoimmune Complications : Interrupt or permanently discontinue POTELIGEO as appropriate ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Complications of Allogeneic HSCT after POTELIGEO : Monitor for severe acute graft - versus - host disease ( GVHD ) and steroid - refractory GVHD .
Transplant - related mortality has occurred ( 5 . 5 ) .
5 . 1 Dermatologic Toxicity Fatal and life - threatening skin adverse reactions , including Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , have occurred in recipients of POTELIGEO .
Rash ( drug eruption ) is one of the most common adverse reactions associated with POTELIGEO .
In Trial 1 , 25 % ( 80 / 319 ) of patients treated with POTELIGEO had an adverse reaction of drug eruption , with 18 % of these cases being severe ( Grade 3 ) and 82 % of these cases being Grade 1 or 2 .
Of 528 patients treated with POTELIGEO in clinical trials , Grade 3 skin adverse reactions were reported in 3 . 6 % , Grade 4 skin adverse reactions in < 1 % , and SJS in < 1 % .
The onset of drug eruption is variable , and the affected areas and appearance vary .
In Trial 1 , the median time to onset was 15 weeks , with 25 % of cases occurring after 31 weeks .
The more common presentations reported included papular or maculopapular rash , lichenoid , spongiotic or granulomatous dermatitis , and morbilliform rash .
Other presentations included scaly plaques , pustular eruption , folliculitis , non - specific dermatitis , and psoriasiform dermatitis .
Monitor patients for rash throughout the treatment course .
Management of dermatologic toxicity includes topical corticosteroids and interruption or permanent cessation of POTELIGEO [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Consider skin biopsy to help distinguish drug eruption from disease progression .
Discontinue POTELIGEO permanently for SJS or TEN or for any life - threatening ( Grade 4 ) reaction .
For possible SJS or TEN , interrupt POTELIGEO and do not restart unless SJS or TEN is ruled out and the cutaneous reaction has resolved to Grade 1 or less .
5 . 2 Infusion Reactions Fatal and life - threatening infusion reactions have been reported in patients treated with POTELIGEO .
In Trial 1 , infusion reactions occurred in 35 % ( 112 / 319 ) of patients treated with POTELIGEO , with 8 % of these reactions being severe ( Grade 3 ) .
Most reactions ( approximately 90 % ) occur during or shortly after the first infusion .
Infusion reactions can also occur with subsequent infusions .
The most commonly reported signs include chills , nausea , fever , tachycardia , rigors , headache , and vomiting .
Consider premedication ( such as diphenhydramine and acetaminophen ) for the first infusion of POTELIGEO in all patients .
Whether premedication reduces the risk or severity of these reactions is not established .
In Trial 1 , infusion reactions occurred in 42 % of patients without premedication and 32 % of patients with premedication .
Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of infusion reactions and interrupt the infusion for any grade reaction and treat promptly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Infections Fatal and life - threatening infections have occurred in patients treated with POTELIGEO , including sepsis , pneumonia , and skin infection .
In Trial 1 , 18 % ( 34 / 184 ) of patients randomized to POTELIGEO had Grade 3 or higher infection or an infection - related serious adverse reaction .
Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and treat promptly .
5 . 4 Autoimmune Complications Fatal and life - threatening immune - mediated complications have been reported in recipients of POTELIGEO .
Grade 3 or higher immune - mediated or possibly immune - mediated reactions have included myositis , myocarditis , polymyositis , hepatitis , pneumonitis , glomerulonephritis and a variant of Guillain - Barré syndrome .
Use of systemic immunosuppressants for immune - mediated reactions was reported in 1 . 9 % ( 6 / 319 ) of recipients of POTELIGEO in Trial 1 , including for a case of Grade 2 polymyalgia rheumatica .
New - onset hypothyroidism ( Grade 1 or 2 ) was reported in 1 . 3 % of patients and managed with observation or levothyroxine .
Interrupt or permanently discontinue POTELIGEO as appropriate for suspected immune - mediated adverse reactions .
Consider the benefit / risk of POTELIGEO in patients with a history of autoimmune disease .
5 . 5 Complications of Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation ( HSCT ) after POTELIGEO Increased risks of transplant complications have been reported in patients who receive allogeneic HSCT after POTELIGEO including severe ( Grade 3 or 4 ) acute graft - versus - host disease ( GVHD ) , steroid - refractory GVHD , and transplant - related death .
Among recipients of pre - transplantation POTELIGEO , a higher risk of transplant complications has been reported if POTELIGEO is given within a shorter time frame ( approximately 50 days ) before HSCT .
Follow patients closely for early evidence of transplant - related complications .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Dermatologic Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Infusion Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Autoimmune Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Complications of Allogeneic HSCT after POTELIGEO [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 20 % of patients ) are rash , infusion related reactions , fatigue , diarrhea , musculoskeletal pain , and upper respiratory tract infection ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Kyowa Kirin , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 768 - 3544 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Trial 1 The data described below reflect exposure to POTELIGEO in a randomized , open - label , actively controlled clinical trial for adult patients with MF or SS who received at least one prior systemic therapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Of 370 patients treated , 184 ( 57 % with MF , 43 % with SS ) received POTELIGEO as randomized treatment and 186 ( 53 % with MF , 47 % with SS ) received vorinostat .
In the vorinostat arm , 135 patients ( 73 % ) subsequently crossed over to POTELIGEO for a total of 319 patients treated with POTELIGEO .
POTELIGEO was administered at 1 mg / kg intravenously over at least 60 minutes on days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of the first 28 - day cycle and on days 1 and 15 of subsequent 28 - day cycles .
Premedication ( diphenhydramine , acetaminophen ) was optional and administered to 65 % of randomized patients for the first infusion .
The comparator group received vorinostat 400 mg orally once daily , given continuously in 28 - day cycles .
Treatment continued until unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease .
The median age was 64 years ( range , 25 to 101 years ) , 58 % of patients were male , 70 % were white , and 99 % had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status of 0 or 1 .
Patients had a median of 3 prior systemic therapies .
The trial required an absolute neutrophil count ( ANC ) ≥ 1 , 500 / µL ( ≥ 1 , 000 / µL if bone marrow was involved ) , platelet count ≥ 100 , 000 / µL ( ≥ 75 , 000 / µL if bone marrow was involved ) , creatinine clearance > 50 mL / min or serum creatinine ≤ 1 . 5 mg / dL , and hepatic transaminases ≤ 2 . 5 times upper limit of normal ( ULN ) ( ≤ 5 times ULN if lymphomatous liver infiltration ) .
Patients with active autoimmune disease , active infection , autologous HSCT within 90 days , or prior allogeneic HSCT were excluded .
During randomized treatment , the median duration of exposure to POTELIGEO was 5 . 6 months , with 48 % ( 89 / 184 ) of patients with at least 6 months of exposure and 23 % ( 43 / 184 ) with at least 12 months of exposure .
The median duration of exposure to vorinostat was 2 . 8 months , with 22 % ( 41 / 186 ) of patients with at least 6 months of exposure .
Fatal adverse reactions within 90 days of the last dose occurred in 2 . 2 % ( 7 / 319 ) of patients who received POTELIGEO as randomized or crossover treatment .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in 36 % ( 66 / 184 ) of patients randomized to POTELIGEO and most often involved infection ( 16 % of patients ; 30 / 184 ) .
Serious adverse reactions reported in > 2 % of patients randomized to POTELIGEO were pneumonia ( 5 % ) , sepsis ( 4 % ) , pyrexia ( 4 % ) , and skin infection ( 3 % ) ; other serious adverse reactions , each reported in 2 % of patients , included hepatitis , pneumonitis , rash , infusion related reaction , lower respiratory tract infection , and renal insufficiency .
POTELIGEO was discontinued for adverse reactions in 18 % of randomized patients , most often due to rash or drug eruption ( 7 . 1 % ) .
Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 20 % of patients randomized to POTELIGEO ) were rash ( including drug eruption ) , infusion related reactions , fatigue , diarrhea , upper respiratory tract infection and musculoskeletal pain .
Other common adverse reactions ( reported in ≥ 10 % of patients randomized to POTELIGEO ) included skin infection , pyrexia , nausea , edema , thrombocytopenia , headache , constipation , mucositis , anemia , cough and hypertension .
Table 1 summarizes common adverse reactions having a ≥ 2 % higher incidence with POTELIGEO than with vorinostat in Trial 1 .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) with ≥ 2 % Higher Incidence in the POTELIGEO ArmAdverse Reactions by Body System [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] POTELIGEO ( N = 184 ) Vorinostat ( N = 186 ) All Grades ( % ) ≥ Grade 3 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) ≥ Grade 3 ( % ) Rash / Drug Eruption includes : dermatitis ( allergic , atopic , bullous , contact , exfoliative , infected ) , drug eruption , palmoplantar keratoderma , rash ( generalized , macular , maculopapular , papular , pruritic , pustular ) , skin reaction , toxic skin eruption Upper Respiratory Tract Infection includes : laryngitis viral , nasopharyngitis , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection , viral upper respiratory tract infection Skin Infection includes : cellulitis , dermatitis infected , erysipelas , impetigo , infected skin ulcer , periorbital cellulitis , skin bacterial infection , skin infection , staphylococcal skin infection Musculoskeletal Pain includes : back pain , bone pain , musculoskeletal chest pain , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia , neck pain , pain in extremity Mucositis includes : aphthous stomatitis , mouth ulceration , mucosal inflammation , oral discomfort , oral pain , oropharyngeal pain , stomatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash , Including Drug Eruption 35 5 11 2 Drug Eruption 24 5 < 1 0 Procedural Complications Infusion Related Reaction 33 2 0 0 Infections Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 22 0 16 1 Skin Infection 19 3 13 4 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Musculoskeletal Pain 22 < 1 17 3 General Disorders Pyrexia 17 < 1 7 0 Gastrointestinal Mucositis 12 1 6 0 [ 1 ] Adverse reactions include groupings of individual preferred terms .
[ 2 ] Includes adverse reactions reported up to 90 days after randomized treatment .
Other Common Adverse Reactions in ≥ 10 % of POTELIGEO Arm [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] • General disorders : fatigue ( 31 % ) , edema ( 16 % ) • Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea ( 28 % ) , nausea ( 16 % ) , constipation ( 13 % ) • Blood and lymphatic system disorders : thrombocytopenia ( 14 % ) , anemia ( 12 % ) • Nervous system disorders : headache ( 14 % ) • Vascular disorders : hypertension ( 10 % ) • Respiratory disorders : cough ( 11 % ) Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5 % but < 10 % of POTELIGEO Arm null , null • Infections : candidiasis ( 9 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 9 % ) , folliculitis ( 8 % ) , pneumonia ( 6 % ) , otitis ( 5 % ) , herpesvirus infection ( 5 % ) • Investigations : renal insufficiency ( 9 % ) , hyperglycemia ( 9 % ) , hyperuricemia ( 8 % ) , weight increase ( 8 % ) , weight decrease ( 6 % ) , hypomagnesemia ( 6 % ) • Psychiatric disorders : insomnia ( 9 % ) , depression ( 7 % ) • Skin and subcutaneous disorders : xerosis ( 8 % ) , alopecia ( 7 % ) • Nervous system disorders : dizziness ( 8 % ) , peripheral neuropathy ( 7 % ) • Metabolism and nutrition disorders : decreased appetite ( 8 % ) • Respiratory disorders : dyspnea ( 7 % ) • General disorders : chills ( 7 % ) • Gastrointestinal disorders : vomiting ( 7 % ) , abdominal pain ( 5 % ) • Injury , poisoning and procedural complications : fall ( 6 % ) • Musculoskeletal disorders : muscle spasms ( 5 % ) • Cardiovascular disorders : arrhythmia ( 5 % ) • Eye disorders : conjunctivitis ( 5 % ) Selected Other Adverse Reactions null , null • Tumor lysis syndrome ( < 1 % ) • Myocardial ischemia or infarction ( < 1 % ) • Cardiac failure ( < 1 % ) • Cytomegalovirus infection ( < 1 % ) Table 2 summarizes common treatment - emergent laboratory abnormalities having a ≥ 2 % higher incidence with POTELIGEO than with vorinostat .
Table 2 : Common New or Worsening Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 10 % ) with ≥ 2 % Higher Incidence in the POTELIGEO ArmLaboratory Test [ 1 ] POTELIGEO ( N = 184 ) Vorinostat ( N = 186 ) All Grades ( % ) ≥ Grade 3 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) ≥ Grade 3 ( % ) Chemistry Albumin Decreased 34 2 27 3 Calcium Decreased 30 3 20 2 Uric Acid Increased 29 29 11 11 Phosphate Decreased 27 5 26 5 Magnesium Decreased 17 < 1 8 < 1 Glucose Decreased 14 0 8 < 1 Calcium Increased 12 < 1 8 < 1 Hematology CD4 Lymphocytes Decreased [ 2 ] 63 43 17 8 Lymphocytes Decreased 31 16 12 4 White Blood Cells Decreased 33 2 18 2 [ 1 ] Includes laboratory abnormalities , reported up to 90 days after treatment , that are new or worsening in grade or with worsening from baseline unknown .
[ 2 ] Out of 99 evaluable recipients of POTELIGEO and 36 evaluable recipients of vorinostat .
Other common treatment - emergent laboratory abnormalities in the POTELIGEO arm included hyperglycemia ( 52 % ; 4 % Grade 3 - 4 ) , anemia ( 35 % ; 2 % Grade 3 - 4 ) , thrombocytopenia ( 29 % , none Grade 3 - 4 ) , aspartate transaminase ( AST ) increased ( 25 % ; 2 % Grade 3 - 4 ) , alanine transaminase ( ALT ) increased ( 18 % ; 1 % Grade 3 - 4 ) , alkaline phosphatase increased ( 17 % ; 0 % Grade 3 - 4 ) , and neutropenia ( 10 % ; 2 % Grade 3 - 4 ) .
Grade 4 treatment - emergent laboratory abnormalities observed in ≥ 1 % of the POTELIGEO arm included lymphopenia ( 5 % ) , leukopenia ( 1 % ) , and hypophosphatemia ( 1 % ) .
[ 1 ] Includes grouped terms [ 2 ] From 184 patients randomized to POTELIGEO 6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors , including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of incidence of antibodies to POTELIGEO with the incidences of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
Among 313 patients treated with POTELIGEO and whose antibodies were tested , 44 ( 14 . 1 % ) tested positive for anti - mogamulizumab - kpkc antibodies .
There was no identified clinically significant effect of anti - drug antibodies on pharmacokinetics , safety , or effectiveness of POTELIGEO .
There were no positive neutralizing antibody responses .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of POTELIGEO .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Infections : Hepatitis B virus reactivation • Cardiac disorders : Stress cardiomyopathy 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on POTELIGEO use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage .
In an animal reproduction study , administration of mogamulizumab - kpkc to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys from the start of organogenesis through delivery did not show a potential for adverse developmental outcomes at maternal systemic exposures 27 times the exposure in patients at the recommended dose , based on AUC ( see Data ) .
In general , IgG molecules are known to cross the placental barrier and in the monkey reproduction study mogamulizumab - kpkc was detected in fetal plasma .
Therefore , POTELIGEO has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus .
POTELIGEO is not recommended during pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using contraception .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data The effects of mogamulizumab - kpkc on embryo - fetal development were evaluated in 12 pregnant cynomolgus monkeys that received mogamulizumab - kpkc once weekly by intravenous administration from the start of organogenesis through delivery at an exposure level 27 times higher than the clinical dose .
Mogamulizumab - kpkc administration did not show a potential for embryo - fetal lethality , teratogenicity , or fetal growth retardation and did not result in spontaneous abortion or increased fetal death .
In surviving fetuses ( 10 of 12 compared with 11 of 12 in the control group ) of cynomolgus monkeys treated with mogamulizumab - kpkc , a decrease in CCR4 - expressing lymphocytes due to the pharmacological activity of mogamulizumab - kpkc was noted ; there were no apparent mogamulizumab - kpkc - related external , visceral , or skeletal abnormalities .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of POTELIGEO in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for POTELIGEO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from POTELIGEO or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential POTELIGEO is not recommended during pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using contraception .
Pregnancy Testing For females of reproductive potential , verify pregnancy status prior to initiating POTELIGEO .
Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with POTELIGEO and for 3 months following the last dose of POTELIGEO .
8 . 4 Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness of POTELIGEO in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric use Of 319 patients with MF or SS who received POTELIGEO in Trial 1 , 162 ( 51 % ) were ≥ 65 years .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients .
In patients aged ≥ 65 , Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions were reported in 45 % and serious adverse reactions in 36 % , whereas in patients aged < 65 , Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions were reported in 36 % and serious adverse reactions in 29 % .
11 DESCRIPTION Mogamulizumab - kpkc is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that targets CC chemokine receptor 4 ( CCR4 ) - expressing cells .
Mogamulizumab - kpkc is an IgG1 kappa immunoglobulin that has a calculated molecular mass of approximately 149 kDa .
Mogamulizumab - kpkc is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary cells .
POTELIGEO ( mogamulizumab - kpkc ) injection is a sterile , ready - to - use , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent colorless solution in a single - dose vial for dilution prior to intravenous infusion .
Each vial contains 20 mg of mogamulizumab - kpkc in 5 mL of solution .
Each mL of solution contains 4 mg of mogamulizumab - kpkc and is formulated in : citric acid monohydrate ( 0 . 44 mg ) , glycine ( 22 . 5 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 2 mg ) , and Water for Injection , USP .
May contain hydrochloric acid / sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 5 . 5 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mogamulizumab - kpkc is a defucosylated , humanized IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody that binds to CCR4 , a G protein - coupled receptor for CC chemokines that is involved in the trafficking of lymphocytes to various organs .
Non - clinical in vitro studies demonstrate mogamulizumab - kpkc binding targets a cell for antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) resulting in depletion of the target cells .
CCR4 is expressed on the surface of some T - cell malignancies and is expressed on regulatory T - cells ( Treg ) and a subset of Th2 T - cells .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Mogamulizumab - kpkc exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Mogamulizumab - kpkc pharmacokinetics ( PK ) was evaluated in patients with T - cell malignancies .
Parameters are presented as the geometric mean [ % coefficient of variation ( % CV ) ] unless otherwise specified .
Mogamulizumab - kpkc concentrations increased proportionally with dose over the dose range of 0 . 01 to 1 . 0 mg / kg ( 0 . 01 to 1 times the approved recommended dosage ) .
Following repeated dosing of the approved recommended dosage , steady state concentrations were reached after 8 doses ( 12 weeks ) , and the systemic accumulation was 1 . 6 - fold .
At steady state , the peak concentration ( Cmax , ss ) is 32 ( 68 % ) µg / mL , the trough concentration ( Cmin , ss ) is 11 ( 239 % ) µg / mL , and AUCss is 5 , 577 ( 125 % ) µg ∙ hr / mL .
Distribution The central volume of distribution is 3 . 6 L ( 20 % ) .
Elimination The terminal half - life is 17 days ( 66 % ) , and the clearance is 12 mL / h ( 84 % ) .
Specific Populations : No clinically significant changes in the PK of mogamulizumab - kpkc were observed based on age ( range : 22 to 101 years ) , sex , ethnicity , renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 90 mL / min , estimated by Cockcroft - Gault ) , mild ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST < ULN , or total bilirubin < 1 to 1 . 5 times ULN and any AST ) or moderate ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 to 3 times ULN and any AST ) hepatic impairment , disease subtype ( MF or SS ) , degree of CCR4 expression , or ECOG status .
The effect of severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 3 times ULN and any AST ) on mogamulizumab - kpkc PK is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies No drug interaction studies have been conducted with POTELIGEO .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity or genotoxicity studies have been conducted with POTELIGEO .
No specific studies have been conducted to evaluate potential effects of POTELIGEO on fertility .
No mogamulizumab - kpkc - related toxic effects in the male and female reproductive organs were observed in sexually mature monkeys in repeat - dose toxicology studies up to 26 weeks in duration .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Trial 1 A randomized , open - label , multicenter trial ( Study 0761 - 010 ; NCT01728805 ) evaluated the efficacy of POTELIGEO in adult patients with MF or SS after at least one prior systemic therapy .
The trial randomized 372 patients 1 : 1 to either POTELIGEO ( 186 patients ; 56 % with MF , 44 % with SS ) or vorinostat ( 186 patients ; 53 % with MF , 47 % with SS ) .
The trial included patients regardless of tumor CCR4 expression status and excluded patients with histologic transformation , prior allogeneic HSCT , autologous HSCT within 90 days , active autoimmune disease , or active infection .
The trial required patients to have ANC ≥ 1 , 500 / µL ( ≥ 1 , 000 / µL if bone marrow was involved ) , platelet count ≥ 100 , 000 / µL ( ≥ 75 , 000 / µL if bone marrow was involved ) , creatinine clearance > 50 mL / min or serum creatinine ≤ 1 . 5 mg / dL and hepatic transaminases ≤ 2 . 5 times ULN ( ≤ 5 times ULN if lymphomatous liver infiltration ) .
The dose of POTELIGEO was 1 mg / kg administered intravenously over at least 60 minutes on days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of the first 28 - day cycle and on days 1 and 15 of each subsequent cycle .
Vorinostat was dosed at 400 mg orally once daily , continuously for 28 - day cycles .
Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
Vorinostat - treated patients with disease progression or unacceptable toxicities were permitted to cross over to POTELIGEO .
The median age was 64 years ( range : 25 to 101 ) , 58 % of patients were male , and 70 % were white .
At study baseline , 38 % had stage IB - II disease , 10 % stage III , and 52 % stage IV .
The median number of prior systemic therapies was 3 .
In the POTELIGEO arm , baseline CCR4 expression status by immunohistochemistry was available in 140 patients ( 75 % ) , of whom all had CCR4 detected on ≥ 1 % of lymphocytes on skin biopsy , and 134 / 140 ( 96 % ) had CCR4 detected on ≥ 10 % of the lymphocytes .
CCR4 expression status was similar in the vorinostat arm .
During randomized treatment , the median duration of exposure to POTELIGEO was 5 . 6 months ( range : < 1 to 45 . 3 months ) , with 48 % of patients with at least 6 months of exposure and 23 % with at least 12 months of exposure .
The median duration of exposure to vorinostat was 2 . 8 months ( range : < 1 to 34 . 8 months ) , with 22 % of patients with at least 6 months of exposure .
Efficacy was based on investigator - assessed progression - free survival ( PFS ) , which was defined as the time from the date of randomization until documented progression of disease or death .
Other efficacy measures included overall response rate ( ORR ) based on global composite response criteria that combine measures from each disease compartment ( skin , blood , lymph nodes and viscera ) .
Responses required confirmation at two successive disease assessments , which included the modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool , skin photographs , central flow cytometry , and computed tomography .
The trial demonstrated that POTELIGEO significantly prolonged PFS compared to vorinostat ( Table 3 ) .
The Kaplan - Meier curve for PFS by Investigator is shown in Figure 1 .
The estimated median follow - up for investigator - assessed PFS was 13 months in the POTELIGEO arm and 10 . 4 months in the vorinostat arm .
By independent review committee assessment , the estimated median PFS was 6 . 7 months ( 95 % CI , 5 . 6 to 9 . 4 ) in the POTELIGEO arm and 3 . 8 months ( 95 % CI , 3 . 0 to 4 . 7 ) in the vorinostat arm ( hazard ratio 0 . 64 ; 95 % CI : 0 . 49 , 0 . 84 ) .
Figure 1 Kaplan - Meier Curve for Progression - Free Survival per Investigator [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 3 also summarizes investigator - assessed confirmed response rates , overall and by disease compartment .
The trial demonstrated improvement in ORR with POTELIGEO .
Table 3 Efficacy of Randomized Treatment ( Trial 1 ) Outcome per Investigator POTELIGEO N = 186 Vorinostat N = 186 CI = confidence interval ; CR = complete response ; NE = not estimable ; PR = partial response PFS Number of events , n 110 131 Progressive disease 104 128 Death 6 3 Median PFS ( 95 % CI ) ( months ) [ 1 ] 7 . 6 ( 5 . 6 , 10 . 2 ) 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 , 4 . 0 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) Log rank p - value 0 . 53 ( 0 . 41 , 0 . 69 ) < . 001 Overall response rate ( confirmed CR + PR ) , n ( % ) [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] 52 ( 28 ) 9 ( 5 ) 95 % CI ( 22 , 35 ) ( 2 , 9 ) P - value [ 4 ] < . 001 Duration of overall response ( months ) Median ( 95 % CI ) null 13 . 9 ( 9 . 3 , 18 . 9 ) 9 . 0 ( 4 . 6 , NE ) Confirmed best overall response null CR , n ( % ) 4 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) 95 % CI ( 1 , 5 ) ( 0 , 2 ) PR , n ( % ) 47 ( 25 ) 9 ( 5 ) 95 % CI ( 20 , 33 ) ( 2 , 9 ) Response by compartment ( confirmed CR + PR ) null Blood n = 124 n = 125 Response rate , n ( % ) 83 ( 67 ) 23 ( 18 ) 95 % CI ( 58 , 75 ) ( 12 , 26 ) Skin n = 186 n = 186 Response rate , n ( % ) 78 ( 42 ) 29 ( 16 ) 95 % CI ( 35 , 49 ) ( 11 , 22 ) Lymph nodes n = 136 n = 133 Response rate , n ( % ) 21 ( 15 ) 5 ( 4 ) 95 % CI ( 10 , 23 ) ( 1 , 9 ) Viscera n = 6 n = 4 Response rate , n ( % ) 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) 95 % CI ( 0 , 46 ) ( 0 , 60 ) [ 1 ] Kaplan - Meier estimate .
[ 2 ] Based on Global Composite Response score .
[ 3 ] Responses in blood and skin must have persisted for at least 4 weeks to be considered confirmed and were evaluated every 4 weeks for the first year .
Responses in lymph nodes , visceral disease and overall were evaluated every 8 weeks for the first year .
[ 4 ] From Cochran - Mantel - Haenszel test adjusted for disease type , stage , and region .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING POTELIGEO ( mogamulizumab - kpkc ) injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent colorless solution supplied in a carton containing one 20 mg / 5 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) , single - dose glass vial ( NDC 42747 - 761 - 01 ) .
Store vials under refrigeration at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original package to protect from light until time of use .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Inform patients of the risk of the following adverse reactions that may require additional treatment and / or withholding or discontinuation of POTELIGEO including : • Dermatological Toxicity : Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for new or worsening skin rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients that the rash can happen at any time while receiving POTELIGEO .
• Infusion Reactions : Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of infusion reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Infections : Advise patients to contact their health care provider for fever or other evidence of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Autoimmune Complications : Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider of any history of autoimmune disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Complications of Allogeneic HSCT after POTELIGEO : Advise patients of potential risk of post - transplant complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Females of Reproductive Potential : Advise use of effective contraception during treatment with POTELIGEO and for 3 months following the last dose of POTELIGEO [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
POTELIGEO ® ( mogamulizumab - kpkc ) Manufactured by : Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 US License No . 2077 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 7 / 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION POTELIGEO ® ( poe – te – lig ' – ee – oh ) ( mogamulizumab - kpkc ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about POTELIGEO ?
POTELIGEO may cause serious side effects that can be severe , life - threatening or lead to death .
Call or see your healthcare provider right away if you develop any symptoms of the following problems or if these symptoms get worse : • Skin problems .
Signs and symptoms of skin reactions may include : • skin pain • itching • skin blistering or peeling • rash • painful sores or ulcers in your mouth , nose , throat , or genital area • Infusion reactions .
Signs and symptoms of infusion reactions may include : • chills or shaking • redness on your face ( flushing ) • itching or rash • shortness of breath , coughing , or wheezing • dizziness • feeling like passing out • tiredness • fever • Infections .
Signs and symptoms of infection may include : • fever , sweats , or chills • nausea • flu - like symptoms • sore throat or difficulty swallowing • shortness of breath • diarrhea or stomach pain • cough • Autoimmune problems .
Some people receiving POTELIGEO develop autoimmune problems ( a condition where the immune cells in your body attack other cells or organs in the body ) .
Some people who already have an autoimmune disease may get worse during treatment with POTELIGEO .
• Complications of stem cell transplantation that uses donor stem cells ( allogeneic ) after treatment with POTELIGEO .
These complications can be severe and can lead to death .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs of complications if you have an allogeneic stem cell transplant .
Getting medical treatment right away may help keep these problems from becoming more serious .
Your healthcare provider will check you for these problems during treatment with POTELIGEO .
Your healthcare provider may need to delay or completely stop treatment with POTELIGEO if you have severe side effects .
What is POTELIGEO ?
POTELIGEO is a prescription medicine used to treat mycosis fungoides ( MF ) or Sézary syndrome ( SS ) in adults when you have tried at least one prior medicine ( taken by mouth or injection ) and it did not work or the disease has come back .
It is not known if POTELIGEO is safe and effective in children .
Before receiving POTELIGEO treatment , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • have had a severe skin reaction after receiving POTELIGEO .
• have had an infusion - related reaction during or after receiving POTELIGEO .
• have or have had liver problems including hepatitis B ( HBV ) infection .
• have a history of autoimmune problems • have undergone or plan to have a stem cell transplant , using stem cells from a donor .
• have lung or breathing problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if POTELIGEO will harm your unborn baby .
• If you are able to become pregnant , your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with POTELIGEO .
• Females who are able to become pregnant should use an effective method of birth control during treatment with POTELIGEO and for 3 months after the last dose of POTELIGEO .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that you can use during this time .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant during treatment with POTELIGEO .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if POTELIGEO passes into your breast milk Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with POTELIGEO .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive POTELIGEO ?
• Your healthcare provider will give you POTELIGEO into your vein through an intravenous ( IV ) line over at least 60 minutes .
• POTELIGEO is usually given on days 1 , 8 , 15 , and 22 of the first 28 - day cycle , then on days 1 and 15 of each 28 - day cycle thereafter .
• Your healthcare provider will decide how many treatments you need based on how well you respond and tolerate the treatment .
• If you miss any appointments call your healthcare provider as soon as possible .
What are the possible side effects of POTELIGEO ?
POTELIGEO may cause serious side effects including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about POTELIGEO ? "
The most common side effects of POTELIGEO include : • rash • tiredness • diarrhea • muscle and bone pain • upper respiratory tract infection These are not all the possible side effects of POTELIGEO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of POTELIGEO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about POTELIGEO that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in POTELIGEO ?
Active ingredient : mogamulizumab - kpkc Inactive ingredients : citric acid monohydrate , glycine , polysorbate 80 , and Water for Injection , USP .
Manufactured by : Kyowa Kirin , Inc . , Bedminster , NJ 07921 U . S . License No . 2077 POTELIGEO is a registered trademark of Kyowa Kirin , Inc .
For more information , call 1 - 844 - 768 - 3544 or go to www . POTELIGEO . com .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg / mL Vial Carton Rx only NDC 42747 - 761 - 01 POTELIGEO ® ( mogamulizumab - kpkc ) Injection 20 mg / 5 mL ( 4 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
