Supplement Facts Serving Size 1 Caplet Each Caplet contains % Daily Value Vitamin A ( as beta carotene and acetate ) 1700 IU 21 % Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 60 mg 100 % Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 400 IU 100 % Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 30 IU 100 % Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 ) 1 . 6 mg 94 % Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg 90 % Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg 75 % Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg 100 % Folate ( as Folic acid USP 0 . 4 mg and L - methylfolate calcium 0 . 6 mg ) 1 mg 125 % Vitamin B12 ( as cobalamin ) 5 mcg 63 % Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 29 mg 161 % Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 25 mg 6 % Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 15 mg 100 % Other Ingredients : Fructose , stearic acid , mono and diglycerides of edible fatty acids , croscarmellose sodium , natural berry flavor , modified food starch , maltodextrin , hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , silicon dioxide , citric acid , titanium dioxide ( as color ) , polydextrose , magnesium stearate , malic acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , triacetin , corn starch , sucrose , acacia , polyethylene glycol , dibasic calcium phosphate , FD & C Blue # 1 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue # 2 aluminum lake , sodium ascorbate , medium chain triglycerides , dl - alpha - tocopherol , dl - alpha - tocopheryl .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SELECT - OB ® Chewable Caplets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Avoid overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbital , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT - OB ® Chewable Caplets .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
HOW SUPPLIED SELECT - OB ® Chewable Caplets are available as a light blue , caplet debossed " EV0120 " .
Available in bottle of 90 and as professional samples .
Rx USAGE SELECT - OB ® Chewable Caplets provide vitamin and mineral supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Before , during and after pregnancy , chew or swallow one blue SELECT - OB ® Chewable Caplet daily , or as directed by a physician .
You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat , light and moisture .
Manufactured for : EVERETT LABORATORIES , INC .
Chatham , NJ 07928 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 Caplet Bottle Label 0642 - 0120 - 90 Select - OB ® Chewable Caplets Prenatal Supplement 90 Caplets Rx [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
