Drug Facts Active Ingredient Coal Tar 2 % ( from Coal Tar Topical Solution USP , 10 % ) Purpose Psoriasis Use for the relief of symptons of psoriasis Warnings For external use only Flammable Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use • for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor • this product in or around the rectum or in the genital area or groin except on the advice of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers large areas of the body .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using the product with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product .
It may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application .
• Product can stain clothing , contact lenses and hair .
To minimize staining , allow product to dry before contact .
Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions • Shake the can before use .
• Invert the can to dispense .
Upright dispensing will cause loss of propellant .
• Apply to affected areas one to four times daily or as directed by a doctor .
Other Information • Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
• Store at 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
• Do not expose to heat or at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol denatured , caprylic / capric triglyceride , ceteareth - 20 , cyclopentasiloxane , dimethicone , disodium edta , glycerin , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , isobutane , isopropyl myristate , mentha piperita ( peppermint ) oil , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 80 , potassium sorbate , propane , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , stearic acid , water ( aqua ) , xantham gum Questions ?
1 - 877 - 977 - 0687 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 g Can Label 75834 - 101 - 01 PSORIASIS FOAM Psoriatar ™ ( Coal Tar ) Foam 2 % NIVAGEN PHARMACEUTICALS Net wt .
3 . 5 oz ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
