Active ingredients Potassium nitrate 5 % Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Uses • • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets , or contact .
• • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• • pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
• • brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • children under 12 years : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , hydrated silica , glycerin , charcoal powder , flavor , cocamidopropyl betaine , xanthan gum , sodium saccharin , sodium hydroxide , sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 844 - 2797 Additional Information ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL What are sensitive teeth ?
Lots of people have sensitive teeth .
When enamel is worn away ( through eating everyday acidic food or drinks ) or gums recede , the dentin underneath becomes exposed .
This can lead to tooth sensitivity , for example , with cold and hot food and drinks .
What does Sensodyne do ?
Sensodyne provides daily care for sensitive teeth * plus all the benefits you would expect from a daily fluoride toothpaste - strong teeth and freshness .
The active ingredient in Sensodyne is clinically proven to deliver 24 / 7 sensitivity protection * Also contains : Coconut derived charcoal to help restore teeth to their natural whiteness Use Sensodyne Natural White twice daily : • • Long - lasting sensitivity protection * • • Contains fluoride to protect against cavities • • Helps remove stains for whiter teeth • • Freshens breath * with twice daily brushing Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2021 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 5028 - 01 new # 1 DENTIST RECOMMENDED BRAND SENSODYNE TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION 24 / 7 Sensitivity Protection * + Strong & Healthy Teeth Natural White with coconut derived charcoal NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) 1001361 Carton Front [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
