Active ingredient ( in each extended - release tablet ) Guaifenesin 1200 mg Purpose Expectorant Uses Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and makes coughs more productive .
Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for the timing of meals • adults and children 12 years of age and over : 1 tablet every 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours .
• children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • store between 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients carbomer , colloidal silicon dioxide , FD & C blue # 1 aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , talc Questions or comments ?
Call ( 800 ) 852 - 1575 Monday - Friday 9 am - 6 pm EST Principal Display Panel Compare to the active ingredient in Maximum Strength Mucinex ® * Maximum Strength Mucus Relief Guaifenesin 1200 mg Expectorant • 12 - hour relief • Relieves chest congestion • Thins and loosens mucus Extended - release tablets * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Reckitt Benckiser LLC , distributor of Maximum Strength Mucinex ® .
TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF BLISTER UNIT IS TORN , BROKEN OR SHOWS ANY SIGNS OF TAMPERING .
KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
Distributed by : LifeMD 236 5 th Ave , Suite 400 New York , NY 10001 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
