DESCRIPTION Each tablet contains 852 mg dibasic sodium phosphate anhydrous , 155 mg monobasic potassium phosphate , and 130 mg monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate .
Each tablet yields approximately 250 mg of phosphorus , 298 mg of sodium ( 13 . 0 mEq ) and 45 mg of potassium ( 1 . 1 mEq ) .
OTHER INGREDIENTS Purified Water , Lactose Monohydrate , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Polyvinyl Pyrrolidone , Magnesium Stearate , Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , Polyethylene Glycol 400 , Titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phosphorus has a number of important functions in the biochemistry of the body .
The bulk of the body ' s phosphorus is located in the bones , where it plays a key role in osteoblastic and osteoclastic activities .
Enzymatically catalyzed phosphate - transfer reactions are numerous and vital in the metabolism of carbohydrate , lipid and protein , and a proper concentration of the anion is of primary importance in assuring an orderly biochemical sequence .
ln addition , phosphorus plays an important rolein modifying steady - state tissue concentrations of calcium .
Phosphate ions are important buffers of the intracellular fluid , and also play a primary role in the renal excretionof the hydrogen ion .
Oral administration of inorganic phosphates increases serum phosphate levels .
Phosphates lower urinary calcium levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria .
In general , in adults , about two thirds of the ingested phosphate in absorbed from the bowel , most of which is rapidly excreted into the urine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PHOSPHA 250 TM NEUTRAL increases urinary phosphate and pyrophosphate .
As a phosphorus supplement , each tablet supplies 25 % of the U . S . Recommended Daily Allowance ( U . S . RDA ) of phosphorus for adults and children over 4 years of age .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with infected phosphate stones , in patients with severely impaired renal function ( less than 30 % of normal ) and in the presence of hyperphosphatemia .
PRECAUTIONS General : This product contains potassium and sodium and should be used with caution if regulation of these elements is desired .
Occasionally , some individuals may experience a mild laxative effect during the first few days of phosphate therapy .
If laxation persists to an unpleasant degree reduce the daily dose until this effect subsides or , if necessary , discontinue the use of the product .
Caution should be exercised when prescribing this product in the following conditions : Cardiac disease ( particularly in digitalized patients ) ; severe adrenal insufficiency ( Addison ' s disease ) ; acute dehydration ; severe renal insufficiency ; renal function impairment or chronic renal disease ; extensive tissue breakdown ( such as severe burns ) ; myotonia congenita ; cardiac failure ; cirrhosis of the liver or severe hepatic disease ; peripheral or pulmonary edema ; hypernatremia ; hypertension ; toxemia of pregnancy ; hypoparathyroidism ; and acute pancreatitis .
Rickets may benefit from phosphate therapy , but caution should be exercised .
High serum phosphate levels may increase the incidence of extraskeletal calcification .
Information for Patients : Patients with kidney stones may pass old stones when phosphate therapy is started and should be warned of this possibility .
Patients should be advised to avoid the use of antacids containing aluminum , magnesium , or calcium which may prevent the absorption of phosphate .
Laboratory : Careful monitoring of renal function and serum calcium , phosphorus , potassium , and sodium may be required at periodic intervals during phosphate therapy .
Other tests may be warranted in some patients , depending on conditions .
Drug Interactions : The use of antacids containing magnesium , aluminum , or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and preventits absorption .
Concurrent use of antihypertensives , especially diazoxide , guanethidine , hydralazine , methyldopa , or rauwolfia alkaloid ; or corticosteroids , especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia .
Calcium - containing preparations and / or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia .
Potassium - containing medication or potassium - sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia .
Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No long term or reproduction studies in animals or humans have been performed with PHOSPHA 250 TM NEUTRAL to evaluate its carcinogenic , mutagenic , or impairment of fertility potential .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Class C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PHOSPHA 250 TM NEUTRAL .
It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when thisproduct is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Gastrointestinal upset ( diarrhea , nausea , stomach pain , and vomiting ) may occur with phosphate therapy .
Also , bone and joint pain ( possible phosphate - induced osteomalacia ) could occur .
The following adverse effects may be observed ( primarily from sodium or potassium ) : headaches ; dizziness ; mental confusion ; seizures ; weakness or heaviness of legs ; unusual tiredness or weakness ; muscle cramps ; numbness , tingling , pain or weakness of hands or feet ; numbness or tingling around lips ; fast or irregular heartbeat ; shortness of breath or troubled breathing ; swelling of feet or lower legs ; unusual weight gain ; low urine output ; unusual thirst .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ingenus Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 877 - 748 - 1970 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION PHOSPHA 250 TM NEUTRAL tablets should be taken with a full glass of water , with meals and at bedtime .
Adults : One or two tablets , four times daily ; Pediatric patients over 4 years of age : One tablet four times daily .
Pediatric Patients under 4 years of age : Use only as directed by physician .
HOW SUPPLIED White , film - coated , capsule - shaped tablet , debossed with RIS 104 on each tablet .
NDC # 64980 - 104 - 01 Bottles of 100 tablets STORAGE Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F } .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child resistant closures .
IDENTITY : Phospha 250 TM Neutral is an orally administered medical food for use only under medical supervision for the dietary management of hypophosphatemia .
Manufactured by : Ingenus Pharmaceuticals NJ , LLC .
Fairfield , NJ 07004 Distributed by : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Saddle Brook , NJ 07663 Rx only 550301 Rev : 08 / 18 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - 250 mg Rising ® NDC 64980 - 104 - 01 Phospha 250 TM Neutral phosphourus supplement which supplies 250 mg per tablet 100 Tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
