[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution contains apraclonidine hydrochloride , an alpha adrenergic agonist , in a sterile isotonic solution for topical application to the eye .
Apraclonidine hydrochloride is a white to off - white powder and is highly soluble in water .
Its chemical name is 2 - [ ( 4 - amino - 2 , 6 dichlorophenyl ) imino ] imidazolidine monohydrochloride with an empirical formula of C9H11Cl3N4 and a molecular weight of 281 . 6 .
The chemical structure of apraclonidine hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution contains : Actives : apraclonidine hydrochloride 11 . 5 mg equivalent to apraclonidine base 10 mg .
Inactives : sodium chloride , sodium acetate , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( pH 4 . 4 - 7 . 8 ) , purified water and benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ( preservative ) .
Osmolality is 260 - 320 mOsm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Apraclonidine is a relatively selective , alpha adrenergic agonist and does not have significant membrane stabilizing ( local anesthetic ) activity .
When instilled into the eye , IOPIDINE 1 % ( apraclonidine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) has the action of reducing intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
Ophthalmic apraclonidine has minimal effect on cardiovascular parameters .
Optic nerve head damage and visual field loss may result from an acute elevation in IOP that can occur after argon or Nd : YAG laser surgical procedures .
Elevated IOP , whether acute or chronic in duration , is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of visual field loss .
The higher the peak or spike of IOP , the greater the likelihood of visual field loss and optic nerve damage especially in patients with previously compromised optic nerves .
The onset of action with IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution can usually be noted within one hour and the maximum IOP reduction usually occurs three to five hours after application of a single dose .
The precise mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is not completely established at this time .
Aqueous fluorophotometry studies in man suggest that its predominant action may be related to a reduction of aqueous formation .
Controlled clinical studies of patients requiring argon laser trabeculoplasty , argon laser iridotomy or Nd : YAG posterior capsulotomy showed that IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution controlled or prevented the post - surgical IOP rise typically observed in patients after undergoing those procedures .
After surgery , the mean IOP was 1 . 2 to 4 mmHg below the corresponding pre - surgical baseline pressure before IOPIDINE Ophthalmic Solution treatment .
With placebo treatment , post - surgical pressures were 2 . 5 to 8 . 4 mmHg higher than their corresponding pre - surgical baselines .
Overall , only 2 % of patients treated with IOPIDINE * 1 % Ophthalmic Solution had severe IOP elevations ( spike greater than or equal to 10 mmHg ) during the first three hours after laser surgery , whereas 23 % of placebo - treated patients responded with severe pressure spikes ( Table 1 ) .
Of the patients that experienced a pressure spike after surgery , the peak IOP was above 30 mmHg in most patients ( Table 2 ) and was above 50 mmHg in seven placebo - treated patients and one IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution - treated patient .
Table 1 : Incidence of IOP Spikes Greater Than or Equal to 10 mmHg Treatment Apraclonidine Placebo Study Laser Procedure P - Value aN ( % ) aN ( % ) 1 Trabeculoplasty < 0 . 05 0 / 40 ( 0 % ) 6 / 35 ( 17 % ) 2 Trabeculoplasty = 0 . 06 2 / 41 ( 5 % ) 8 / 42 ( 19 % ) 1 Iridotomy < 0 . 05 0 / 11 ( 0 % ) 4 / 10 ( 40 % ) 2 Iridotomy = 0 . 05 0 / 17 ( 0 % ) 4 / 19 ( 21 % ) 1 Nd : YAG Capsulotomy < 0 . 05 3 / 80 ( 4 % ) 19 / 83 ( 23 % ) 2 Nd : YAG Capsulotomy < 0 . 05 0 / 83 ( 0 % ) 22 / 81 ( 27 % ) aN = Number Spikes / Number Eyes .
Table 2 : Magnitude of Post - surgical IOP in Trabeculoplasty , Iridotomy and Nd : YAG Capsulotomy Patients With Severe Pressure Spikes Greater than or Equal to 10 mmHg Maximum Postsurgical IOP ( mmHg ) Total Treatment Spikes 20 - 29 mmHg 30 - 39 mmHg 40 - 49 mmHg > 50 mmHg IOPIDINE 8 1 4 2 1 Placebo 78 16 47 8 7 INDICATIONS AND USAGE IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is indicated to control or prevent post - surgical elevations in IOP that occur in patients after argon laser trabeculoplasty , argon laser iridotomy or Nd : YAG posterior capsulotomy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated for patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy and for patients with hypersensitivity to any component of this medication or to clonidine .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Not for injection or oral ingestion .
PRECAUTIONS General Since IOPIDINE * 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is a potent depressor of IOP , patients who develop exaggerated reductions in IOP should be closely monitored .
Although the acute administration of two drops of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution has minimal effect on heart rate or blood pressure in clinical studies evaluating patients undergoing anterior segment laser surgery , the preclinical pharmacologic profile of this drug suggests that caution should be observed in treating patients with severe cardiovascular disease including hypertension .
IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution should also be used with caution in patients with severe coronary insufficiency , recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , chronic renal failure , Raynaud ’ s disease or thromboangiitis obliterans .
The possibility of a vasovagal attack occurring during laser surgery should be considered and caution used in patients with history of such episodes .
Topical ocular administration of two drops of 0 . 5 % , 1 % , and 1 . 5 % IOPIDINE Ophthalmic Solution to New Zealand Albino rabbits three times daily for one month resulted in sporadic and transient instances of minimal corneal cloudiness in the 1 . 5 % group only .
No histopathological changes were noted in those eyes .
No adverse ocular effects were observed in cynomolgus monkeys treated with two drops of 1 . 5 % IOPIDINE Ophthalmic Solution applied three times daily for three months .
No corneal changes were observed in 320 humans given at least one dose of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution .
Information for Patients Apraclonidine can cause dizziness and somnolence .
Patients who engage in hazardous activities requiring mental alertness should be warned of the potential for a decrease in mental alertness on the day of surgery .
Drug Interactions Interactions with other agents have not been investigated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No significant change in tumor incidence or type was observed following two years of oral administration of apraclonidine HCl to rats and mice at dosages of 1 and 0 . 6 mg / kg / day , up to 50 and 30 times , respectively , the maximum dose recommended for human topical ocular use .
Apraclonidine HCl was not mutagenic in a series of in vitro mutagenicity tests , including the Ames test , a mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , a chromosome aberration assay in cultured Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells , a sister chromatid exchange assay in CHO cells , and a cell transformation assay .
An in vivo mouse micronucleus assay conducted with apraclonidine HCl also provided no evidence of mutagenicity .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats showed no adverse effect on male or female fertility at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 25 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Pregnancy Apraclonidine HCl has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rabbits when given in an oral dose of 3 mg / kg / day ( 150 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
Dose related maternal toxicity was observed in pregnant rats at 0 . 3 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the maximum recommended human dose ) .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
IOPIDINE * 1 % Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known if topically applied IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is excreted in human milk .
Decision should be made to discontinue nursing temporarily for the one day on which IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution is used .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse events , occurring in less than 2 % of patients , were reported in association with the use of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution in laser surgery : ocular injection , upper lid elevation , irregular heart rate , nasal decongestion , ocular inflammation , conjunctival blanching , and mydriasis .
The following adverse events were observed in investigational studies dosing IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution once or twice daily for up to 28 days in non - laser studies : Ocular Conjunctival blanching , upper lid elevation , mydriasis , burning , discomfort , foreign body sensation , dryness , itching , hypotony , blurred or dimmed vision , allergic response , conjunctival microhemorrhage .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain , diarrhea , stomach discomfort , emesis Cardiovascular Bradycardia , vasovagal attack , palpitations , orthostatic episode Central Nervous System Insomnia , dream disturbances , irritability , decreased libido .
Other Taste abnormalities , dry mouth , nasal burning or dryness , headache , head cold sensation , chest heaviness or burning , clammy or sweaty palms , body heat sensation , shortness of breath , increased pharyngeal secretion , extremity pain or numbness , fatigue , paresthesia , pruritus not associated with rash .
Clinical Practice The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events , which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution , or a combination of these factors , include hypersensitivity .
OVERDOSAGE Ingestion of IOPIDINE * 0 . 5 % Ophthalmic Solution has been reported to cause bradycardia , drowsiness , and hypothermia .
Accidental or intentional ingestion of oral clonidine has been reported to cause apnea , arrhythmias , asthenia , bradycardia , conduction defects , diminished or absent reflexes , dryness of the mouth , hypotension , hypothermia , hypoventilation , irritability , lethargy , miosis , pallor , respiratory depression , sedation or coma , seizure , somnolence , transient hypertension , and vomiting .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
Hemodialysis is of limited value since a maximum of 5 % of circulating drug is removed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop of IOPIDINE * 1 % Ophthalmic Solution should be instilled in the scheduled operative eye one hour before initiating anterior segment laser surgery and a second drop should be instilled to the same eye immediately upon completion of the laser surgical procedure .
Use a separate container for each single - drop dose and discard each container after use .
HOW SUPPLIED IOPIDINE 1 % Ophthalmic Solution as base is a sterile , isotonic , aqueous solution containing apraclonidine hydrochloride .
Supplied as follows : 0 . 1 mL in plastic ophthalmic dispensers , packaged two per pouch .
These dispensers are enclosed in a foil overwrap as an added barrier to evaporation .
0 . 1 mL ( packaged two per pouch ) NDC 0065 - 0660 - 10 Storage : Store at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Distributed by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Alcon ® a Novartis company * a trademark of Novartis © Novartis T2018 - 17 March 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0065 - 0660 - 10 IOPIDINE ® ( apraclonide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution ) 1 % as base Sterile Alcon ® a Novartis company CONTENTS : 12 pouches containing 2 units , 0 . 1 mL each [ MULTIMEDIA ]
