[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CYSTADROPS is a cystine - depleting agent indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal deposits in adults and children with cystinosis .
CYSTADROPS is a cystine - depleting agent indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal deposits in adults and children with cystinosis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one drop of CYSTADROPS in each eye , 4 times a day during waking hours .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Dosage Information Instill one drop of CYSTADROPS in each eye , 4 times a day during waking hours .
Do not touch dropper tip to the eyelids , surrounding areas , or any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
In case of concomitant therapy with other topical ocular products , an interval of 10 minutes should be allowed between successive applications .
Eye ointments should be administered last .
If the patient misses an instillation , the patient should be told to administer a dose as soon as feasible and then continue the treatment with the next scheduled instillation .
Discard bottle 7 days after first opening .
2 . 2 Preparation for Administration • Patients should be advised to store new unopened CYSTADROPS bottles in the refrigerator in the original carton between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Each week , one new bottle should be removed from the refrigerator .
Patients are to write the date the bottle was opened in the space on the carton .
After first opening , store opened CYSTADROPS at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate after opening .
• Patients are to wash their hands carefully in order to avoid microbiological contamination of the content in the bottle .
• Remove the green protective cap ( see Figure A ) .
• Remove the metal seal ( see Figure B ) .
• Remove the gray stopper ( see Figure C ) from the bottle .
• Do not touch the opening of the bottle after removing the gray stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Take the dropper out of its packaging , without touching the end intended to be attached to the bottle , attach it ( see Figure D ) to the bottle and do not remove it .
• Patients should be advised not to lose the small white cap that comes on the top of the dropper ( see Figure E ) .
Keep the small white cap tightly closed when not in use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Instill one drop of CYSTADROPS in each eye , 4 times a day during waking hours .
• At the end of 7 days , patients should discard the bottle .
There may be medication left in the bottle ; however , the bottle must be discarded by the patient because the medication is only stable for 7 days after first opening .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing 3 . 8 mg / mL of cysteamine ( 0 . 37 % ) .
Ophthalmic solution containing 3 . 8 mg / mL of cysteamine ( 0 . 37 % ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS To minimize the risk of contamination , do not touch the dropper tip to any surface .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Contamination of Tip and Solution To minimize contaminating the dropper tip and solution , care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
5 . 2 Benign Intracranial Hypertension There have been reports of benign intracranial hypertension ( or pseudotumor cerebri ) associated with oral cysteamine treatment that has resolved with the addition of diuretic therapy .
There have also been reports associated with ophthalmic use of cysteamine ; however , all of these patients were on concurrent oral cysteamine .
5 . 3 Contact Lens Use CYSTADROPS contains benzalkonium chloride , which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact with soft contact lenses should be avoided .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to application of solution and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) are eye pain , vision blurred , eye irritation , ocular hyperaemia , instillation site discomfort , eye pruritus , lacrimation increased , and ocular deposits .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . at 1 - 888 - 575 - 8344 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) reported during clinical trials were eye pain , vision blurred , eye irritation , ocular hyperaemia , instillation site discomfort , eye pruritus , lacrimation increased , and ocular deposits .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of ophthalmic cysteamine in pregnant women to inform any drug associated risks .
Oral administration of cysteamine to pregnant rats throughout the period of organogenesis was teratogenic at doses 240 to 960 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ( based on body surface area ) [ see Data ] .
CYSTADROPS should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal data Teratology studies have been performed in rats at oral doses in the range of 37 . 5 mg / kg / day to 150 mg / kg / day ( 240 to 960 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose based on body surface area ) and have shown cysteamine bitartrate to be teratogenic .
Observed teratogenic findings were intrauterine death , cleft palate , kyphosis , heart ventricular septal defects , microcephaly , exencephaly , and growth deficits .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of cysteamine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infants , or the effects on milk production .
Cysteamine administered orally is present in milk of lactating rats .
It is not known whether measurable levels of cysteamine would be present in maternal milk following topical ocular administration of CYSTADROPS .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for CYSTADROPS and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from CYSTADROPS or from the underlying maternal conditions .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of CYSTADROPS has been established in pediatric patients .
Use of CYSTADROPS is supported by adequate and well controlled trials in pediatric patients and additional experience supporting the safety of CYSTADROPS .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of CYSTADROPS did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of cysteamine following ophthalmic administration of cysteamine ophthalmic solution has not been evaluated .
Clearance of cysteamine from the conjunctival sac of the eye is not dependent on renal function and the total systemic dose is negligible , so impaired renal function is unlikely to affect total body clearance .
The total daily ophthalmic dose is less than 4 % of the recommended oral daily dose of cysteamine ; thus , the systemic exposure following ophthalmic administration is expected to be negligible compared to oral administration .
11 DESCRIPTION CYSTADROPS is a sterile , viscous , ophthalmic solution containing 3 . 8 mg / mL of cysteamine ( 0 . 37 % ) equivalent to 5 . 6 mg / mL of cysteamine hydrochloride ( 0 . 55 % ) .
Cysteamine is a cystine - depleting agent which lowers the cystine content of cells in patients with cystinosis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C2H7NS HCl Molecular Weight : 113 . 61 Each milliliter of CYSTADROPS contains : Active : cysteamine 3 . 8 mg ( equivalent to cysteamine hydrochloride 5 . 6 mg ) ; Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 1 mg ; Inactive Ingredients : carmellose sodium , citric acid monohydrate , disodium edetate dihydrate , hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH to 4 . 6 - 5 . 4 ) , and water for injection .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cysteamine acts as a cystine - depleting agent by converting cystine to cysteine and cysteine - cysteamine mixed disulfides and reduces corneal cystine crystal accumulation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The peak plasma concentration of cysteamine following ocular administration of cysteamine ophthalmic solution in humans is unknown , because all patients concomitantly received oral cysteamine and the total daily ophthalmic dose is less than 4 % of the recommended oral daily dose of cysteamine .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Cysteamine has not been tested for its carcinogenic potential in long - term animal studies .
Mutagenesis Cysteamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test .
It produced a negative response in an in vitro sister chromatid exchange assay in human lymphocytes but a positive response in a similar assay in hamster ovarian cells .
Impairment of Fertility Repeat breeding reproduction studies were conducted in male and female rats .
Cysteamine was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance at an oral dose of 75 mg / kg / day ( 480 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose based on body surface area ) .
At an oral dose of 375 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 400 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose based on body surface area ) , it reduced the fertility of the adult rats and the survival of their offspring .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical safety and efficacy of CYSTADROPS were assessed in two studies : a single - arm study conducted for 5 years ( OCT - 1 ) and a randomized controlled study conducted for 90 days ( CHOC ) .
In the OCT - 1 study , 8 patients with cystinosis ( 2 males and 6 females ) with a mean age of 12 . 1 ± 4 . 6 ( range : 7 . 0 – 21 . 0 ) were enrolled and received a median of 4 drops / eye / day of CYSTADROPS .
In CHOC study , 32 patients with cystinosis ( 15 males and 17 females ) with a mean age of 17 . 1 ± 13 . 0 ( range : 2 . 9 – 62 . 6 ) were enrolled and received a median of 4 drops / eye / day .
Fifteen patients were exposed to CYSTADROPS and 16 were exposed to cysteamine hydrochloride 0 . 1 % ( control arm ) .
Efficacy was assessed with In - Vivo Confocal Microscopy total score ( IVCM score ) by quantifying the cystine crystals in the cornea .
A decrease in IVCM total score from baseline indicated a reduction in corneal crystals .
In the CHOC study , after 30 and 90 days of treatment with CYSTADROPS , 12 % and 40 % reduction in the total IVCM total score across all corneal layers was observed from baseline , respectively .
CYSTADROPS demonstrated greater reduction compared to the control arm at 90 days .
The average reduction in IVCM total score was 4 . 6 in the CYSTADROPS arm and 0 . 5 in the control arm , mean difference 3 . 8 ( 95 % CI : ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 6 ) ) .
In the OCT - 1 study , a mean decrease in corneal cystine crystal deposits of 30 % , in comparison with baseline , was maintained over the 60 month period of the study .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CYSTADROPS ( cysteamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 37 % is supplied as a 5 mL sterile viscous solution in a 10 mL amber glass bottle closed by a bromobutyl stopper and sealed with an aluminum tear - off cap .
A PVC dropper applicator with HDPE closure is packed separately and included in each carton box .
Each carton box ( NDC 55292 - 410 - 05 ) contains 1 bottle ( NDC 55292 - 410 - 05 ) and 1 dropper applicator individually wrapped .
Before First Opening : Before opening , store new , unopened CYSTADROPS in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
Keep the bottle in the outer carton in order to protect from light .
After First Opening : After opening , store opened CYSTADROPS at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate after opening .
Keep the dropper bottle tightly closed in the outer carton in order to protect from light .
Discard 7 days after first opening .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Preparation for Administration and Storage of Bottles • Advise patients to store new unopened bottles in the refrigerator in the original carton .
• Each week , one new bottle should be removed from the refrigerator .
Advise patients to write the date the bottle was opened in the space on the carton .
After first opening , keep the bottle tightly closed and store at room temperature in the original carton .
• Patients are to wash their hands carefully in order to avoid microbiological contamination of the content in the bottle .
• Remove the green protective cap ( see Figure A ) .
• Remove the metal seal ( see Figure B ) .
• Remove the gray stopper ( see Figure C ) from the bottle .
• Do not touch the opening of the bottle after removing the gray stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Take the dropper out of its packaging , without touching the end intended to be attached to the bottle , attach it ( see Figure D ) to the bottle and do not remove it .
• Patients should be advised not to lose the small white cap ( see Figure E ) that comes on the top of the dropper .
Keep the small white cap tightly closed when not in use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Instill one drop of CYSTADROPS in each eye , 4 times a day during waking hours .
• Instruct patients to discard the bottle at the end of 7 days .
There may be medication left in the bottle ; however , the bottle must be discarded by the patient because the medication is only stable for 7 days after first opening .
Risk of Contamination Advise patients not to touch the eyelid or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle .
The cap should remain on the bottle when not in use .
Contact Lens Use Advise patients that contact lenses should be removed prior to application of CYSTADROPS .
Contact lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following CYSTADROPS administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Topical Ophthalmic Use Advise patients that CYSTADROPS is for topical ophthalmic use .
Missed Dose If the patient misses an instillation , instruct the patient to administer a dose as soon as feasible and then to continue the treatment with the next scheduled instillation .
Manufactured by : Baccinex SA , 2822 Courroux , Switzerland Manufactured for : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . , Lebanon , NJ 08833 , U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] This product label may have been updated .
For the most recent prescribing information , please visit www . recordatirarediseases . com / us .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE CYSTADROPS ® ( sys - tah - drops ) ( cysteamine ophthalmic solution ) for topical ophthalmic use Read this Instructions for Use carefully before you start using CYSTADROPS and each time you get a refill ; there may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Important information : • Use CYSTADROPS exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• CYSTADROPS is for use in the eyes .
• Wash your hands before each use .
• If you use CYSTADROPS with other eye medicines , you should wait at least 10 minutes between using CYSTADROPS and your other eye medicines .
• If you wear contact lenses , remove them before using CYSTADROPS .
You should wait at least 15 minutes after using CYSTADROPS , before placing your contact lenses back in your eyes .
• Do not let the CYSTADROPS dropper touch your eyelids or any other surfaces .
Storing CYSTADROPS : • Before opening , store new , unopened CYSTADROPS in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After first opening , store opened CYSTADROPS at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Do not refrigerate after opening .
• Keep CYSTADROPS in the original carton to protect from light .
• Keep the CYSTADROPS dropper bottle tightly closed when not in use .
• Throw away any unused CYSTADROPS 7 days after opening .
• Keep CYSTADROPS and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Supplies needed : • CYSTADROPS bottle and dropper • mirror • tissue Using CYSTADROPS : • Use 1 drop in each eye , four times a day .
• If you miss a dose , administer the missed dose as soon as possible and then use the drops at your next regular scheduled time .
Step 1 : Before using a CYSTADROPS bottle for the first time • Check the expiration date on the CYSTADROPS bottle before use .
Do not use CYSTADROPS if the expiration date has passed .
• After opening a CYSTADROPS bottle , allow it to reach room temperature before using it for the first time .
• After opening a CYSTADROPS bottle for the first time , write the date of opening in the space provided on the carton .
• Wash your hands carefully in order to avoid contamination of the contents in the bottle .
• Remove the green protective cap ( Figure A ) .
• Remove the metal seal ( Figure B ) .
• Remove the gray stopper ( Figure C ) .
• Do not touch the opening of the bottle after removing the gray stopper .
• Place the opened bottle on a flat surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Take the dropper out of its packaging .
Do not touch the end of the dropper that will be attached to the bottle .
Attach the dropper ( Figure D ) to the bottle .
After attaching the dropper to the bottle , do not remove the dropper from the bottle ( Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Make sure that you do not lose the small white cap ( Figure E ) that comes on the top of the dropper .
Step 2 : Before using CYSTADROPS • Check the opening date that you wrote down on the carton .
Do not use CYSTADROPS if more than 7 days have passed since the opening date .
• Get the CYSTADROPS dropper bottle , mirror , and tissue .
• Wash your hands .
Step 3 : Using the CYSTADROPS dropper bottle • Twist the small white cap to remove it from the dropper .
Do not throw the small white cap away .
• Hold the CYSTADROPS dropper bottle with the dropper pointing down , between your thumb and fingers .
If no medicine fills the dropper , move the CYSTADROPS dropper bottle up and down until medicine fills the dropper .
• Tilt your head back .
Pull down your lower eyelid with a clean finger and look up ( Figure F ) .
The medicine will go into the space between your lower eyelid and your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Use the mirror to help you bring the dropper bottle tip close to the eye .
• Do not let the CYSTADROPS dropper touch your eyelids or any other surfaces .
• Gently squeeze the dropper to release 1 drop of CYSTADROPS .
• If a drop misses your eye , try again .
• After using CYSTADROPS , close your eye and press a finger into the corner of your eye by the nose ( Figure G ) , then gently massage your upper eyelid to spread the CYSTADROPS over the eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove any medicine around the eye with a tissue ( Figure H ) .
• Repeat Step 3 for the other eye .
• Replace the small white cap on the dropper immediately after use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Baccinex SA , 2822 Courroux , Switzerland Manufactured for : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc . , Lebanon , NJ 08833 , U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Approved : 08 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 55292 - 410 - 05 Cystadrops ® ( cysteamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 37 % For Topical Ophthalmic Use Rx only 1 x 5 mL sterile Recordati Rare Diseases GROUP Manufactured by : Baccinex SA Courroux , Switzerland For : Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
Lebanon , NJ 08833 U . S . A . CDRCRT LOT : 12345678 A EXP : 20 XX / MM S / N : 123456789012 GTIN : 12345678901234 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 55292 - 410 - 05 Rx only Cystadrops ® ( cysteamine ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 37 % 5 mL sterile Recordati Rare Diseases Inc .
CDRLBL Lot : EXP : YYYY / MM [ MULTIMEDIA ]
