DESCRIPTION Each Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablet contains : Phenobarbital , USP .....................................
16 . 2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP ......................
0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP ............................. 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP ........... 0 . 0065 mg Inactive Ingredients Calcium Stearate , Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Lactose , Microcrystalline Cellulose , and Pregelatinized Starch .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific , fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the indications as follows : " Possibly " effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • glaucoma ; • obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; • paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; • severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon ; • myasthenia gravis ; • hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis ; • in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
WARNINGS Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids ( fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs .
Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver , they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in patients with : • autonomic neuropathy • hepatic or renal disease • hyperthyroidism • coronary heart disease • congestive heart failure • cardiac arrhythmias • tachycardia • hypertension Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
Information for Patients Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Drug Interactions Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets .
There is positive evidence of human fetal risk based on adverse reaction data from investigational or marketing experience or studies in humans , but potential benefits may warrant use of the drug in pregnant women despite potential risks ( see WARNINGS ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation , drowsiness , and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include xerostomia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; musculoskeletal pain ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , and other dermal manifestations ; and decreased sweating .
Acquired hypersensitivity to barbiturates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma , urticaria , angioedema , and similar conditions .
Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling , particularly of the eyelids , cheeks , or lips , and erythematous dermatitis .
Rarely , exfoliative dermatitis ( e . g . Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal .
The skin eruption may be associated with fever , delirium , and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs .
In a few cases , megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apothecon Florida , LLC at 1 - 888 - 514 - 4727 or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
Dependence In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics , and activated charcoal .
If indicated , parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride should be used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets - Adults : One or two Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms .
HOW SUPPLIED Phenobarbital with Belladonna Alkaloids Tablets are supplied as : White , round , convex tablet debossed with ' PBA ' on one side and ' 7 ' on the other side .
• Bottles of 100 tablets - NDC 63629 - 2050 - 1 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
DEA EXEMPT PRODUCT Phenobarbital w / Belladonna Alkaloids # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
