1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TAGITOL V is indicated for use in adult patients for use in computed tomography ( CT ) colonography as a fecal tagging agent .
TAGITOL V is a radiographic contrast agent indicated in adult patients for use in computed tomography ( CT ) colonography as a fecal tagging agent ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose is : • One 20 mL bottle ( 8 g barium sulfate ) with each meal ( breakfast , lunch and dinner ) the day before the CT colonography examination ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Total dose = 3 bottles ( 24 g barium sulfate ) • For oral use only ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosing • The recommended oral dose of TAGITOL V is one 20 mL bottle ( 8 g barium sulfate ) with each meal ( breakfast , lunch and dinner ) the day before the colonography examination .
Total dose = 3 bottles ( 24 g barium sulfate ) .
2 . 2 Important Administration Instructions • TAGITOL V is typically provided to the patient for self - administration .
Advise patients to carefully read and follow the Patient Instructions for Use to be provided to the patient .
• Shake bottle for 15 seconds prior to administration .
• For oral use only .
• Encourage patients to hydrate following the barium sulfate procedure .
• Discard any unused suspension .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral suspension : barium sulfate ( 40 % w / v ) supplied as a ready - to - use suspension in a 20 mL , single - dose , bottle for oral administration .
Each 20 mL bottle contains 8 g of barium sulfate .
• Oral suspension : barium sulfate ( 40 % w / v ) 20 mL single dose bottles as a ready to use suspension for oral administration ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TAGITOL V is contraindicated in patients with :     -     known or suspected perforation of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract ;     -     known obstruction of the GI tract ;     -     high risk of GI perforation such as those with a recent GI perforation , acute GI hemorrhage or ischemia , toxic megacolon , severe ileus , post GI surgery or biopsy , acute GI injury or burn , or recent radiotherapy to the pelvis ;     -     high risk of aspiration such as those with prior aspiration , tracheo - esophageal fistula , or obtundation ;     -     known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of TAGITOL V . TAGITOL V is contraindicated in patients with : • Known or suspected perforation of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract ( 4 ) • Known obstruction of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Conditions associated with high risk of GI perforation or aspiration ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of TAGITOL V ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available ( 5 . 1 ) • Intra - abdominal barium leakage : May occur in conditions which increase the risk of perforation such as - carcinoma , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , diverticulitis , or severe stenosis or obstructing lesions of the GI tract ( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed GI transit and obstruction : Patients should maintain adequate hydration in days following a barium sulfate procedure to avoid obstruction or impaction by baroliths ( 5 . 3 ) • Aspiration pneumonitis : Caution is recommended in patients with a history of food aspiration and in patients with known swallowing disorders ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Barium sulfate preparations contain a number of excipients , including natural and artificial flavors and may induce serious hypersensitivity reactions .
The manifestations include hypotension , bronchospasm and other respiratory impairments , dermal reactions including rashes , urticaria and itching .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent may increase the risk for hypersensitivity reactions .
Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 2 Intra - abdominal Barium Leakage The use of TAGITOL V is contraindicated in patients at high risk of perforation of the GI tract [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of TAGITOL V may result in leakage of barium from the GI tract in the presence of conditions that increase the risk of perforation such as carcinomas , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , or diverticulitis , and in patients with a severe stenosis at any level of the gastrointestinal tract , especially if it is distal to the stomach .
The barium leakage has been associated with peritonitis and granuloma formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Gastrointestinal Transit and Obstruction Orally administered barium sulfate may accumulate proximal to a constricting lesion of the colon , causing obstruction or impaction with development of baroliths ( inspissated barium associated with feces ) and may lead to abdominal pain , appendicitis , bowel obstruction , or rarely perforation .
Patients with the following conditions are at higher risk for developing obstruction or baroliths : severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , impaired gastrointestinal motility , electrolyte imbalance , dehydration , on a low residue diet , on medications that delay GI motility , constipation , cystic fibrosis , Hirschsprung disease , and the elderly .
To reduce the risk of delayed GI transit and obstruction , patients should maintain adequate hydration following a barium sulfate procedure .
5 . 4 Aspiration Pneumonitis The use of TAGITOL V is contraindicated in patients at high risk of aspiration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oral administration of barium is associated with aspiration pneumonitis , especially in patients with a history of food aspiration or with compromised swallowing mechanism .
Vomiting following oral administration of barium sulfate may lead to aspiration pneumonitis .
5 . 5 Systemic Embolization Barium sulfate products may occasionally intravasate into the venous drainage of the large bowel and enter the circulation as a " barium embolus " leading to potentially fatal complications which include systemic and pulmonary embolism , disseminated intravascular coagulation , septicemia and prolonged severe hypotension .
Although this complication is exceedingly uncommon after oral administration of barium sulfate products , monitor patients for potential intravasation when administering barium sulfate .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reporting or clinical studies of barium sulfate administered orally .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping • Serious adverse reactions and fatalities include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , intestinal perforation with consequent peritonitis and granuloma formation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes .
Common adverse reactions include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary TAGITOLVis not absorbed systemically following oral administration , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary TAGITOL V is not absorbed systemically by the mother following oral administration and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to the drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 . 4 Pediatric Use TAGITOL V is not indicated for pediatric use .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of TAGITOL V do not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION TAGITOL V ( barium sulfate ) is a radiographic contrast agent that is supplied as a 40 % w / v , off - white to lightly colored , free - flowing , ready - to - use suspension with an apple aroma for oral administration .
The active ingredient barium sulfate is designated chemically as BaSO4 with a molecular weight of 233 . 4 g / mol and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] TAGITOL V contains the following excipients : carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid , glycerin , maltodextrin , natural and artificial apple flavor , polysorbate 80 , potassium sorbate , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , xanthan gum , and xylitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Due to its high atomic number , barium ( the active ingredient in TAGITOL V ) is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Barium sulfate is biologically inert and has no known pharmacological effects .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Under physiological conditions , barium sulfate passes through the gastrointestinal tract in an unchanged form and is absorbed only in pharmacologically insignificant amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of barium sulfate or potential effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied TAGITOL V ( barium sulfate ) is an oral suspension ( 40 % w / v ) supplied as a box of three 20 mL bottles .
Each bottle contains 8 grams barium sulfate .
Provided as : 24 boxes , each containing 3 ( 20 mL ) bottles ( NDC 32909 - 814 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do Not Freeze .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION After administration , advise patients to : • Maintain adequate hydration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Seek medical attention for worsening of constipation or slow gastrointestinal passage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Seek medical attention for any delayed onset of hypersensitivity : rash , urticaria , or respiratory difficulty [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Instructions TAGITOL V is typically provided to the patient for self - administration .
Advise patients to carefully read and follow the Patient Instructions for Use to be provided to the patient .
Provide the patient with any site specific instructions regarding their procedure and when to take meals .
Rx only Manufactured by EZEM Canada Inc Anjou ( Quebec ) Canada H1J 2Z4 For Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 CLC8503 rev . 05 / 22 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE TAGITOL V ( tag - i - täl vē ) ( barium sulfate ) oral suspension Read this Instructions for Use before you drink TAGITOL V ( barium sulfate ) oral suspension .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Important : Take TAGITOL V exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Your healthcare provider will prescribe the dose that is right for you .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to take TAGITOL V . How should I store TAGITOL V ?
• Before using TAGITOL V store at room temperature between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Keep TAGITOL V and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Supplies you will need : • 1 box containing 3 bottles of TAGITOL V . Each bottle contains 20 mL of TAGITOL V How should I take TAGITOL V The day before your procedure you will drink 1 bottle of TAGITOL V with each meal : • Breakfast : Shake 1 bottle of TAGITOL V for 15 seconds , open the bottle , and drink the liquid with breakfast .
• Lunch : Shake 1 bottle of TAGITOL V for 15 seconds , open the bottle , and drink the liquid with lunch .
• Dinner : Shake 1 bottle of TAGITOL V for 15 seconds , open the bottle , and drink the liquid with dinner .
Throw away any unused TAGITOL V with normal household trash .
Do not throw away by flushing down the drain .
What should I do if the TAGITOL V spills ?
If you spill the liquid while shaking or drinking it , you can clean it up .
TAGITOL V is not harmful and can be thrown away with normal household trash .
If you spilled any of the liquid , check with your healthcare provider to find out if you need to change the date of the appointment for your procedure .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Approved : August 2017 COE5502 Tagitol V Internal Label NDC : 32909 - 814 - 53 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tagitol V Internal Label NDC : 32909 - 814 - 55 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tagitol V External Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tagitol V Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
