DESCRIPTION : For ophthalmic use only .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride is an alpha - adrenergic blocking agent .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride is 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydro - 3 - [ 2 - ( 4 - o .
tolyl - 1 - piperazinyl ) ethyl ] - s - triazolo [ 4 , 3 - a ] pyridine hydrochloride .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride has the empirical formula C 19 H 27 N 5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 361 . 93 .
The structural formula for dapiprazole hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dapiprazole hydrochloride is a sterile , white , lyophilized powder soluble in water .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 5 % is a clear , colorless , slightly viscous solution for topical application .
Each mL ( when reconstituted as directed ) contains 5 mg of dapiprazole hydrochloride as the active ingredient .
The reconstituted solution has a pH of approximately 6 . 6 and an osmolarity of approximately 415 mOsm .
The inactive ingredients include : mannitol ( 2 % ) , sodium chloride , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ( 0 . 4 % ) , edetate sodium ( 0 . 01 % ) , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic , water for injection , and benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) as a preservative .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 5 % is supplied in a kit consisting of one vial of dapiprazole hydrochloride ( 25 mg ) , one vial of diluent ( 5 mL ) and one dropper for dispensing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution acts through blocking the alpha - adrenergic receptors in smooth muscle .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution produces miosis through an effect on the dilator muscle of the iris .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution does not have any significant activity on ciliary muscle contraction and , therefore does not induce a significant change in the anterior chamber depth or the thickness of the lens .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has demonstrated safe and rapid reversal of mydriasis produced by phenylephrine and to a lesser degree tropicamide .
In patients with decreased accommodative amplitude due to treatment with tropicamide , dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution partially restores the accommodative amplitude .
This activity is not only due to its miotic effect but also to a direct effect on accommodation .
Eye color affects the rate of pupillary constriction .
In individuals with brown irides , the rate of pupillary constriction may be slightly slower than in individuals with blue or green irides .
Eye color does not appear to affect the final pupil size .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution does not significantly alter intraocular pressure in normotensive eyes or in eyes with elevated intraocular pressure .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated in the treatment of iatrogenically induced mydriasis produced by adrenergic ( phenylephrine ) or parasympatholytic ( tropicamide ) agents .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is not indicated for the reduction of intraocular pressure or in the treatment of open angle glaucoma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Miotics are contraindicated where constriction is undesirable ; such as acute iritis , and in those subjects showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNING : For Topical Ophthalmic Use Only .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Do not touch the dropper up to lids or any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used in the same patient more frequently than once a week .
PRECAUTIONS : Information to Patients : Miosis may cause difficulty in dark adaptation and may reduce the field of vision .
Patients should exercise caution when involved in night driving or other activities in poor illumination .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Dapiprazole has been shown to significantly increase the incidence of liver tumors in rats after continuous dietary administration for 104 weeks .
This effect was found only in male rats treated with the highest dose administered in the study , i . e . , 300 mg / kg / day , ( 80 , 000 times the human dose ) and was not observed in male and female rats at doses of 30 and 100 mg / kg / day and female rats at doses of 300 mg / kg / day .
Negative results have been reported on the mutagenicity and impairment of fertility studies with dapiprazole hydrochloride .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 128 , 000 ( rat ) and 27 , 000 ( rabbit ) times the human ophthalmic dose and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to dapiprazole hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 4 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In controlled studies the most frequent reaction to dapiprazole was conjunctival injection lasting 20 minutes in over 80 % of patients .
Burning on instillation of dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution was reported in approximately half of all patients .
Reactions occurring in 10 % to 40 % of patients included ptosis , lid erythema , lid edema , chemosis , itching , punctate keratitis , corneal edema , browache , photophobia and headaches .
Other reactions reported less frequently included dryness of eyes , tearing and blurring of vision .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Two drops followed 5 minutes later by an additional 2 drops applied topically to the conjunctiva of each eye should be administered after the ophthalmic examination to reverse the diagnostic mydriasis .
Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution should not be used in the same patient more frequently than once per week .
Directions for Preparing Eyedrops : • Use aseptic technique .
• Tear off aluminum seals , remove and discard rubber plugs from both drug and diluent vials • Pour diluent into drug vial .
• Remove dropper assembly from its sterile wrapping and attach to the drug vial .
• Shake container for several minutes to ensure mixing .
HOW SUPPLIED : Dapiprazole hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , 0 . 5 % - Sterile is supplied as an outer package ( NDC 53020 - 265 - 01 ) containing : NDC 53020 - 255 - 01 single vial of dapiprazole hydrochloride ( 25 mg ) lyophilized powder NDC 53020 - 245 - 01 single vial of diluent ( 5 mL ) Single dropper for dispensing Storage and Stability of Eyedrops : Once the ophthalmic solution has been reconstituted it may be stored at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Temperature ] for 21 days .
Discard any solution that is not clear and colorless .
Updated : February 2019 Manufactured by : Exela Pharma Sciences , LLC Lenoir , NC 28645 Manufactured For : Baradaina , LLC 8780 W . Golf Road , Suite 304 Niles , Illinois 60714 Rx only PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Container Label Sterile Dapiprazole HCI Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % E Y E D R O P S Rx only For Use in the Eyes 5 mL ( when diluent is added ) BARADAINA , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
