Drug Facts : Active Ingredients : Petrolatum 30 . 00 % Cod Liver Oil 10 . 00 % Purpose : Skin Protectant Uses : • Temporarily protects minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
• Temporarily protects chapped or cracked skin .
• Helps protect from drying effects of wind and cold weather .
Warnings : • For external use only .
• When using this product , do not get into eyes .
• If condition worsens or does not improve for seven days , discontinue use and consult a physician .
• DO NOT USE IF TAMPER EVIDENT SEAL IS BROKEN .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , contact physician or poison control center immediately .
Other Information : Store at room temperature .
Other Information : Store at room temperature .
Directions : Apply as needed .
Prepare a gauze bandage to apply .
Dressing should be placed on a clean and flat surface .
Apply ointment with a spatula , covering the entire surface with a thin layer .
Place bandage directly on top of affected area .
Make sure affected area remains covered by ointment .
Inactive Ingredients : Beeswax , BHT , Chamomilla Recutita ( Chamomile ) Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Prunus Amygdalus Dulcis ( Sweet Almond ) Oil .
PROPERTIES : CUREFINI is an ointment made with various well known vegetable and animal materials commonly found in the pharmacopeia .
When they are combined together in certain proportions , the resulting compound has strong skin protection properties .
CUREFINI has been found to provide therapeutic benefits in the treatment for diverse lesions of the skin , and helps restore the skin to its normal , healthy condition .
Made of natural substances , CUREFINI does not contain corticoids or antibiotics .
CUREFINI is used in a clinical environment to treat burns and wounds , and is also used as a household first - aid product to treat cuts , burns and scrapes .
Dermal Ointment for Skin Injuries , Cuts , Scrapes and Burns ACCEPTED NATIONALECZEMA . ORG NATIONAL ECZEMA ASSOCIATION Clinically Tested • Pediatrician Tested Manufactured for : REV PHARMA CORP , 153 SW 22 " Road , MIAMI , FL 33129 , US Patent # 10016466B2 Manufactured by : Miramar Lab 2301 NW 107 th Ave , Ste 101 Doral , FL 33172 , USA * Color may vary due to organic yellow beeswax Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
