topical aerosol Rx Only 4009472 Rev . 08 / 08 DESCRIPTION Proctofoam ® - HC ( hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) is a topical aerosol foam for anal use containing hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % in a hydrophilic base containing cetyl alcohol , emulsifying wax , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene - 10 - stearyl ether , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , trolamine and inert propellants : isobutane and propane .
Proctofoam ® - HC contains a synthetic corticosteroid used as an anti - inflammatory / antipruritic agent and a local anesthetic .
Hydrocortisone acetate Molecular weight : 404 . 50 .
Solubility of hydrocortisone acetate in water : 1 mg / 100 mL .
Chemical name : pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pramoxine hydrochloride Molecular weight : 329 . 86 .
Pramoxine hydrochloride is freely soluble in water .
Chemical name : morpholine , 4 - [ 3 - ( 4 - butoxyphenoxy ) propyl ] - , hydrochloride .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pramoxine hydrochloride is a surface or local anesthetic which is not chemically related to the " caine " types of local anesthetics .
Its unique chemical structure is likely to minimize the danger of cross - sensitivity reactions in patients allergic to other local anesthetics .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Proctofoam ® - HC is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses of the anal region .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroid products are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Contents of the container are under pressure .
Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
If there is no evidence of clinical improvement within two or three weeks after starting Proctofoam ® - HC therapy , or if the patient ' s condition worsens , discontinue the drug .
Keep this and all medicines out of the reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for anal or perianal use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
• Be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it has been prescribed .
• Report any signs of adverse reactions .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate , well - controlled studies of teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids in pregnant women .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily .
Use the applicator supplied for anal administration .
For perianal use , transfer a small quantity to a tissue and rub in gently .
Directions for Use • Place cap on top of container .
Shake foam container vigorously for 5 - 10 seconds before each use .
Do not remove container cap during use of the product .
• Hold container upright on a level surface and gently place the tip of the applicator onto the nose of the container cap .
CONTAINER MUST BE HELD UPRIGHT TO OBTAIN PROPER FLOW OF MEDICATION .
• Pull plunger past the fill line on the applicator barrel .
• Hold the container and applicator at eye level .
Place the index and middle fingers on the container cap flanges and the thumb beneath the container .
Support the applicator with your other hand .
Prime the container by pressing down firmly on flanges and then release .
With initial priming , a burst of air may come out of the container .
It usually requires 1 - 2 pumps for foam to appear .
• To fill applicator barrel , press down firmly on cap flanges , hold for 1 - 2 seconds , and release .
Wait 5 - 10 seconds to allow foam to expand in applicator barrel .
Repeat until foam reaches fill line .
It usually requires 3 - 4 pumps for foam to reach fill line .
Remove applicator from container cap .
Note : If foam goes beyond fill line , it will continue to expand and flow backwards resulting in foam build - up under cap .
• Hold applicator firmly by barrel , making sure thumb and middle finger are positioned securely underneath and resting against barrel wings .
Place index finger over the plunger .
Gently insert tip into anus .
Once in place , push plunger to expel foam , then withdraw applicator .
CAUTION : Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus .
Apply to anus only with enclosed applicator .
Do not insert any part of the applicator past the anus into rectum .
• After each use , applicator parts should be pulled apart for thorough cleaning with warm water .
Since some foam will appear under the cap , the cap and underlying tip should be pulled apart and rinsed to help prevent build - up of foam and possible blockage .
HOW SUPPLIED Proctofoam ® - HC is supplied in an aerosol container with a special anal applicator .
When used correctly , the aerosol container will deliver a minimum of 14 applications .
Store upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
DO NOT REFRIGERATE .
NDC 68220 - 142 - 10 10 g Marketed and Distributed by ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC Marietta , GA 30067 , USA For Medical Inquires , call toll - free 1 - 888 - 317 - 0001 www . alavenpharm . com 4009472 Rev . 08 / 08 Relabeled by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PLEASE READ CAREFULLY BEFORE USING PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR proctofoam ® HC ( hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) TOPICAL AEROSOL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Keep this insert .
It contains important information about the use of proctofoam ® HC .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 1 Place cap on top of container .
Shake foam container vigorously for 5 - 10 seconds before each use .
Do not remove container cap during use of the product .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 2 Hold container upright on a level surface and gently place the tip of the applicator onto the nose of the container cap .
CONTAINER MUST BE HELD UPRIGHT TO OBTAIN PROPER FLOW OF MEDICATION .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 3 Pull plunger past the fill line on the applicator barrel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 4 Hold the container and applicator at eye level .
Place the index and middle fingers on the container cap flanges and the thumb beneath the container .
Support the applicator with your other hand .
Prime the container by pressing down firmly on flanges and then release .
With initial priming , a burst of air may come out of the container .
It usually requires 1 - 2 pumps for foam to appear .
• 5 To fill applicator barrel , press down firmly on cap flanges , hold for 1 - 2 seconds , and release .
Wait 5 - 10 seconds to allow foam to expand in applicator barrel .
Repeat until foam reaches fill line .
It usually requires 3 - 4 pumps for foam to reach fill line .
Remove applicator from container cap .
Note : If foam goes beyond fill line , it will continue to expand and flow backwards resulting in foam build - up under cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 6 Hold applicator firmly by barrel , making sure thumb and middle finger are positioned securely underneath and resting against barrel wings .
Place index finger over the plunger .
Gently insert tip into anus .
Once in place , push plunger to expel foam , then withdraw applicator .
CAUTION : Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus .
Do not insert any part of applicator past the anus into rectum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • 7 After each use , applicator parts should be pulled apart for thorough cleaning with warm water .
Since some foam will appear under the cap , the cap and underlying tip should be pulled apart and rinsed to help prevent build - up of foam and possible blockage .
ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC Marietta , GA 30067 , USA For Medical Inquiries , call toll - free 1 - 888 - 317 - 0001 www . alavenpharm . com 4009473 08 / 08 Relabeled by : REBEL DISTRIBUTORS CORP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 21695 - 982 - 10 STORE UPRIGHT proctofoam ® HC ( hydrocortisone acetate 1 % and pramoxine hydrochloride 1 % ) topical aerosol Rx Only ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC 10 g net wt [ MULTIMEDIA ]
