claims Kroger Kids Sunscreen Spray SPF 50 provides quick and easy coverage with broad - spectrum protection .
Its clear , specially formulated spray goes on at any angle .
Water - resistant formula provides protection in and out of water for up to 80 minutes .
active ingredients Avobenzone , Homosalate , Octisalate , Octocrylene purpose sunscreen uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
• after application , wait until product dries before approacing a souce of heat or flame , or before smoking do not use • on damaged or broken skin • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
 contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Conrol Center right away direction ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well - ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , triethanolamine , tocopherol , butyloctyl salicylate , fragrance Questions or comments ?
1 - 822 - 632 - 6900 May stain or damage some fabrics of surfaces Oxybenzone & Octinoxate free DISTRIBUTED BY THE KORGER CO . , CINCINNATI , OHIO 45202 COPPERTONE AND COPPERTONE KIDS ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF BEIERSDORF AG .
BEIERSDORF AS IS NOT AFFILATED WITH THE KORGER CO .
OR THIS PRODUCT .
QUALITY GUARANTEE 800 - 632 - 6900 www . kroger . com principal display panel compare to COPPERTONE KIDS see back panel Kroger KIDS SUNSCREEN SPRAY BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 UVA / UVB protection hypoallergenic continuous spray water resistant ( 80 minutes ) wo n't run into eyes SPF 50 REEF FRIENDLY NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
