L ' BEL EFFET PARFAIT Spots Reducing Effect Foundation SPF 18 - MEDIUM 6 B Active Ingredients Octinoxate ( 7 . 5 % ) , Oxybenzone ( 2 . 0 % ) Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
Warnings • Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
• For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other Information • Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• Apply using the sponge and cover the face evenly .
Blend softly with the applicator or , if you prefer , your fingertips .
Inactive ingredients Isostearyl Neopentanoate , Mica , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Ethylhexyl Palmitate , Polymethyl Methacrylate , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Ozokerite , Kaolin , Polyethylene , Copernicia Cerifera Cera ( Copernicia Cerifera ( Carnauba ) Wax ) , Zea Mays Starch ( Zea Mays ( Corn ) Starch ) , Kojic Dipalmitate , Phenoxyethanol , Dimethicone , Octyldodecanol , Glyceryl Isostearate , Isostearyl Alcohol , Methylparaben , Silica , Butyrospermum Parkii Butter ( Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter ) , Microcristallina Cera ( Microcrystalline Wax ) , Propylparaben , Beta - Sitosterol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Candelilla Cera ( Euphorbia Cerifera ( Candelilla ) Wax ) , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Petrolatum , Phospholipids , Bht , Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract ( Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract ) , Butylparaben , Ethylparaben , Cholesterol , Isobutylparaben , Cera Alba ( Beeswax ) , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetearyl Glucoside , Polyglyceryl - 2 Dipolyhydroxystearate , Glycosphingolipids .
May Contain : Ci 77891 ( Titanium Dioxide ) , Ci 77492 ( Iron Oxides ) , Ci 77491 ( Iron Oxides ) , Ci 77499 ( Iron Oxides ) , Chitosan Purpose Sunscreen EFFET PARFAIT Facial Perfecting Line L ' BEL presents its Effet Parfait line to maximize your skin ' s beauty .
An innovative line of perfecting makeup that adds luminosity to the face and gives it a youthful appearance thanks to the latest concept in cosmetic technology : Perfecting Technology .
Effet Parfait products transform the appearance of your face , returning the healthy look and glow of youth .
In addition to concealing and correcting imperfections , they prepare your skin for applying makeup shades and express your skin ' s maximum beauty and splendor .
spot reducing effect foundation SPF 18 A foundation with coverage that adapts to the needs of your face .
With continual use , its innovative Photo Bright Complex technology helps diminish existing spots and , thanks to its photoadjustable pigments , evens out skin tone and conceals dark areas and surfaces more effectively , minimizing the intensity o spots and imperfections immediately .
The result : uniform , natural and youthful skin .
• Covers spots and imperfections • Evens out skin tone .
• Helps diminish existing spots .
USES : Helps prevent sunburn .
WARNINGS : Skin Cancer / Skin Aging Alert : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn , not skin cancer or early skin aging .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS : • Use in the morning after cleansing and toning .
Apply small amounts using the fingertips and spreading with upward , circular movements .
Rub gently until absorbed completely .
• Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply at least every 2 years • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Other Information : • Protect the product int his container from excessive heat and direct sun .
• Apply using the sponge and cover the face evenly .
Blend softly with the applicator or , if you prefer , your fingertips .
Effet Parfait features a line of products with benefits that complement one another .
Follow this routine to attain perfect skin : Step 1 : Apply the Perfect Face Effect Retexturizing Gel .
Step 2 : Apply the Effet Parfait foundation that best meets your skin ' s needs .
Step 3 : Apply the Rejuvenating Effect Concealer .
Step 4 : Apply the Effet Parfait Compact Powder that best meets y our skin ' s needs L ' BEL EFFET PARFAIT spot reducing effect foundation SPF 18 8 g ( . 28 oz ) www . lbel . com P . R . : Distributed by Ventura Corporation , Ltd . , San Juan , Puerto Rico 00926 .
US : Distributed by Ventura International Ltd . , DBA Belcorp USA , San Francisco , CA 94111 .
Made in Colombia L ' BEL EFFET PARFAIT Spots Reducing Effect Foundation SPF 18 - MEDIUM 6 B 8 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
