Drug Facts Active ingredient ( s ) 75 % Ethyl Alcohol Purpose Antiseptic Use ( s ) Disinfecting wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • To start the feed : Remove the canister lid and discard the plastic seal from the canister .
Open the plastic bag containing the towel roll .
From the center of the toweled roll , pull up wipe and thread it through the hole in the lid .
Place the lid back on top of the canister .
Pull the wipe through approximately 1 inch .
Keep lid closed tightly to avoid excess evaporation .
• Wipe down hands , fingers , in - between digits areas and wrists thoroughly with the wipe .
Utilize the entire surface of the wipe .
Allow ample time to dry .
• Discard the wipe after single use .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product .
Other information Alcohol is a volatile substance .
Keep the container in a cool and dry place , avoiding direct sunlight or fire .
• Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredient ( s ) Non - Woven fabric , Pure water , Glycerin , Aloe Extract , Polyurethane .
MAXIMUM STRENGTH • 75 % ETHYL ALCOHOL Signal word Danger Hazard statements H225 Highly flammable liquid and vapour .
Precautionary statements P101 If medical advice is needed , have product container or label at hand .
P102 Keep out of reach of children .
P103 Read label before use .
P210 Keep away from heat , hot surfaces , sparks , open flames and other ignition sources .
No smoking .
P240 Ground and bond container and receiving equipment .
P241 Use explosion - proof [ electrical / ventilating / lighting ] equipment .
P280 Wear protective gloves / protective clothing / eye protection / face protection .
P303 + P361 + P353 IF ON SKIN ( or hair ) : Take off immediately all contaminated clothing .
Rinse skin with water [ or shower ] .
P501 Dispose of contents / container in accordance with local / regional / national / international regulations .
Made in : China Manufactured for : FINCH Help keep hands clean and germ - free with Stat - 75 sanitizing wipes .
Made with 75 % ethyl alcohol for maximum strength .
To open package : Pull out wipe from center of the roll .
Next sheet pops up automatically .
Close lid to retain moisture .
Visit us online atStat75 . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
