Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole , USP 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot jock itch , and ringworm • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling , and discomfort Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age , unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product , avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement with 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition lasts longer , contact a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) • before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl esters wax , 2 - octyldodecanol , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium phosphate monobasic , sorbitan monostearate Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Principal display panel COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN LOTRIMIN ® AF ATHLETE ' S FOOT CREAM ** Clotrimazole Cream , USP 1 % ANTIFUNGAL CREAM Proven Clinically Effective in the Treatment of the Most Athlete ' s Foot * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer HealthCare LLC . , distributor of Lotrimin ® AF Athlete ' s Foot Cream .
Distributed by : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 East Lancaster Avenue , Wayne , PA 19087 Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
