Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Center right away Directions Directions for sunscreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and eraly skin aging .
Todecrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Storage Other information - protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Tribehenin , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Alcohol denat . , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Cetearyl alcohol , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Methylparaben , Ethylparaben , Xanthan gum , Retinyl palmitate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium hyaluronate , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl - alcohol , Lupinus seed extract , Dipropylene glycol , carbomer , Phyllanthus emblica fruit extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium hydroxide , Ginkgo biloba leaf extract , Ethylhexylglycerin , Simethicone , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Description Feeling confident about your skin is critical .
Protect and Perfect Intense Anti - Ageing Moisturiser combines the unique protecting and renewing ingredients found in our renowned Protect & Perfect Intense Anti - Ageing Serum with an intensively hydrating complex .
Helps defend against premature ageing from UVA and UVB rays and boosts skin vitality when used as directed with other sun protection measures .
For Best Results : Use every morning on clean skin .
Squeeze out a small amount into your palm and rub your hands together to leave an even amount on each .
Smooth into your face and neck paying more attention to the drier areas .
Use after applying Protect and Perfect Intense Anti - Ageing serum Information Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc , Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 3 % Octocrylene 4 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn airless bottle with pump No7 Men Protect and Perfect Intense Moisturiser Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl . Oz .
Active ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % , Octisalate 3 % , Octocrylene 4 % Warning Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
Description For Best Results : Use every morning on clean skin .
Squeeze out a small amount into your palm and rub your hands together to leave an even amount on each .
Smooth into your face and neck paying more attention to the drier areas .
Use after applying Protect and Perfect Intense Anti - Age serum .
Helps protect against the ageing effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . boots . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
