Active Ingredients ( w / w ) Lidocaine 4 % Purpose External Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in or near the eyes • over large areas of the body • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • deep cuts • animal bites • serious burns When using this product • do not apply over raw surfaces or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , call a poison control center or get medical help right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • shake well • clean the affected area and apply a small amount up to 3 times daily and let dry • a second coating may be applied for extra protection • children under 2 years of age : ask doctor prior to use Other information Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients acrylates copolymer , alcohol denat , ammonium acrylates copolymer , benzalkonium chloride , disodium deceth - 6 sulfosuccinate , disodium EDTA , laureth - 30 , propanediol , sodium dehydroacetate , water Questions ?
1 - 844 - 241 - 5454 or Bactine . com Distributed by : * Germs commonly associated with skin infections .
Distributed by : WellSpring Pharmaceutical Corporation Sarasota , FL 34243 © 2022 WellSpring Pharmaceutical Corporation MONEY BACK GUARANTEE Bactine Max is FSA / HSA eligible .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL New Bactine Max Liquid Bandage with Lidocaine Max Pain Relief Kills 99 % of Germs Invisible Protection Relieves Kills Protects NO STING SHAKE WELL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Back Panel New Bactine Max Liquid Bandage with Lidocaine SHAKE WELL Bactine Max Liquid Bandageʼs unique formula provides maximum strength pain relief with LIDOCAINE , kills 99 . 9 % of germs * , and protects hard - to - cover minor cuts and scrapes .
This flexible bandage dries clear quickly and is breathable to maximize healing .
