DESCRIPTION Oxybutynin chloride is an antispasmodic , anticholinergic agent .
Each oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablet , USP contains 5 mg or 10 mg of oxybutynin chloride USP , formulated as a once - a - day controlled - release tablet for oral administration .
Oxybutynin chloride is administered as a racemate of R - and S - enantiomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - diethylamino - 2 - butynyl phenyl - cyclohexylglycolate hydrochloride .
The molecular formula of oxybutynin chloride is C22H31NO3 • HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 393 . 9 .
It is readily soluble in water and acids , but relatively insoluble in alkalis .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate ( anhydrous ) , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , povidone , sodium hydroxide , talc , titanium dioxide , triacetin and triethyl citrate .
The 5 mg strength also contains D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake and FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake ; and the 10 mg strength also contains D & C Yellow No . 6 Aluminum Lake .
In addition , oxybutynin extended - release tablets may also contain imprinting ink consisting of either black pigment and natural resin or black iron oxide and propylene glycol .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 2 .
System Components and PerformanceOxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are formulated to deliver oxybutynin chloride at a controlled rate over approximately 24 hours .
The dosage form is comprised of a hydrophilic cellulose polymer matrix tablet surrounded by an enteric coating system .
The enteric coat is insoluble in the low pH environment of the stomach .
As the tablet passes through the stomach and enters the higher pH environment of the small intestine , the enteric coating dissolves and / or erodes to expose the polymer matrix tablet which swells and releases drug at a controlled rate via diffusion and / or erosion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oxybutynin chloride exerts a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin chloride exhibits only one - fifth of the anticholinergic activity of atropine on the rabbit detrusor muscle , but four to ten times the antispasmodic activity .
No blocking effects occur at skeletal neuromuscular junctions or autonomic ganglia ( antinicotinic effects ) .
Oxybutynin chloride relaxes bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary bladder contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases bladder ( vesical ) capacity , diminishes the frequency of uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle , and delays the initial desire to void .
Oxybutynin thus decreases urgency and the frequency of both incontinent episodes and voluntary urination .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly in the R - isomer .
A metabolite , desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
PharmacokineticsAbsorptionFollowing the first dose of oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , oxybutynin plasma concentrations rise for 4 to 6 hours ; thereafter steady concentrations are maintained for up to 24 hours , minimizing fluctuations between peak and trough concentrations associated with oxybutynin .
The relative bioavailabilities of R - and S - oxybutynin from oxybutynin chloride extended - release are 156 % and 187 % , respectively , compared with oxybutynin .
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters for R - and S - oxybutynin are summarized in Table 1 .
The plasma concentration - time profiles for R - and S - oxybutynin are similar in shape ; Figure 1 shows the profile for R - oxybutynin .
Table 1 Mean ( SD ) R - and S - Oxybutynin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single Dose of Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 43 ) Parameters ( units ) R - Oxybutynin S - Oxybutynin Cmax ( ng / mL ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 8 ( 1 ) Tmax ( h ) 12 . 7 ( 5 . 4 ) 11 . 8 ( 5 . 3 ) t ½ ( h ) 13 . 2 ( 6 . 2 ) 12 . 4 ( 6 . 1 ) AUC ( 0 - 48 ) ( ng ● h / mL ) 18 . 4 ( 10 . 3 ) 34 . 2 ( 16 . 9 ) AUCinf ( ng ● h / mL ) 21 . 3 ( 12 . 2 ) 39 . 5 ( 21 . 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 .
Mean R - oxybutynin plasma concentrations following a single dose of oxybutynin chloride ER 10 mg and oxybutynin 5 mg administered every 8 hours ( n = 23 for each treatment ) .
Steady - state oxybutynin plasma concentrations are achieved by Day 3 of repeated oxybutynin chloride extended - release dosing , with no observed drug accumulation or change in oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin pharmacokinetic parameters .
Pharmacokinetic information for pediatric patients 5 to 15 years of age with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) is approved for Alza Corporation ’ s oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
However , due to Alza Corporation ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
Food EffectsThe rate and extent of absorption and metabolism of oxybutynin are similar under fed and fasted conditions .
DistributionPlasma concentrations of oxybutynin decline biexponentially following intravenous or oral administration .
The volume of distribution is 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
MetabolismOxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Its metabolic products include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and desethyloxybutynin , which is pharmacologically active .
Following oxybutynin chloride extended - release administration , plasma concentrations of R - and S - desethyloxybutynin are 73 % and 92 % , respectively , of concentrations observed with oxybutynin .
ExcretionOxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Also , less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite desethyloxybutynin .
Dose ProportionalityPharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin and desethyloxybutynin ( Cmax and AUC ) following administration of 5 mg to 20 mg of oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are dose proportional .
Special PopulationsGeriatricThe pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin chloride extended - release were similar in all patients studied ( up to 78 years of age ) .
PediatricPharmacokinetic information for pediatric patients 5 to 15 years of age with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) is approved for Alza Corporation ’ s oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
However , due to Alza Corporation ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
GenderThere are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin in healthy male and female volunteers following administration of oxybutynin chloride extended - release .
RaceAvailable data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on race in healthy volunteers following administration of oxybutynin chloride extended - release .
Renal InsufficiencyThere is no experience with the use of oxybutynin chloride extended - release in patients with renal insufficiency .
Hepatic InsufficiencyThere is no experience with the use of oxybutynin chloride extended - release in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Drug - Drug InteractionsSee PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions .
Clinical StudiesOxybutynin chloride extended - release was evaluated for the treatment of patients with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency in three controlled studies and one open label study .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 89 % ) and female ( 91 . 9 % ) with a mean age of 59 years ( range , 18 to 98 years ) .
Entry criteria required that patients have urge or mixed incontinence ( with a predominance of urge ) as evidenced by ≥ 6 urge incontinence episodes per week and ≥ 10 micturitions per day .
Study 1 was a fixed dose escalation design , whereas the other studies used a dose adjustment design in which each patient ’ s final dose was adjusted to a balance between improvement of incontinence symptoms and tolerability of side effects .
Controlled studies included patients known to be responsive to oxybutynin or other anticholinergic medications , and these patients were maintained on a final dose for up to 2 weeks .
The efficacy results for the three controlled trials are presented in the following tables and figures .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are once daily controlled - release tablets indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
Pediatric use information for the treatment of patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) is approved for Alza Corporation ’ s oxybutynin extended - release tablets .
However , due to Alza Corporation ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention , gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions , uncontrolled narrow angle glaucoma and in patients who are at risk for these conditions .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release is also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product .
PRECAUTIONS Central Nervous System EffectsOxybutynin is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including hallucinations , agitation , confusion and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly in the first few months after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release should be used with caution in patients with preexisting dementia treated with cholinesterase inhibitors due to the risk of aggravation of symptoms .
GeneralOxybutynin chloride extended - release should be used with caution in patients with hepatic or renal impairment and in patients with myasthenia gravis due to the risk of symptom aggravation .
Urinary RetentionOxybutynin chloride extended - release should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal DisordersOxybutynin chloride extended - release should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis and intestinal atony .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
As with any other nondeformable material , caution should be used when administering oxybutynin chloride extended - release to patients with preexisting severe gastrointestinal narrowing ( pathologic or iatrogenic ) .
There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of other drugs in nondeformable controlled - release formulations .
Information for PatientsPatients should be informed that heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur when anticholinergics such as oxybutynin chloride are administered in the presence of high environmental temperature .
Because anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin may produce drowsiness ( somnolence ) or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution .
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents such as oxybutynin .
Patients should be informed that oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids .
Patients should not chew , divide , or crush tablets .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be taken at approximately the same time each day .
Drug InteractionsThe concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth , constipation , somnolence ( drowsiness ) , and / or other anticholinergic - like effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
This may be of concern for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index .
Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 2 - fold higher when oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were administered with ketoconazole , a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , itraconazole and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) , may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters ( i . e . , Cmax and AUC ) .
The clinical relevance of such potential interactions is not known .
Caution should be used when such drugs are coadministered .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityA 24 month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 and 160 mg / kg / day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 and 50 times the maximum human exposure , based on surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
PregnancyTeratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category BReproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the animal fetus .
The safety of oxybutynin chloride extended - release administration to women who are or who may become pregnant has not been established .
Therefore , oxybutynin chloride extended - release should not be given to pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the probable clinical benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether oxybutynin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when oxybutynin chloride extended - release is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseClinical study information for pediatric patients 6 to 15 years of age with symptoms of detrusor overactivity in association with a neurological condition ( e . g . , spina bifida ) is approved for Alza Corporation ’ s oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
However , due to Alza Corporation ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole without chewing , dividing or crushing , or in children under the age of 6 years .
Geriatric UseThe rate and severity of anticholinergic effects reported by patients less than 65 years old and those 65 years and older were similar ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics : Special Populations : Geriatric ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse Events with Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - release TabletsThe safety and efficacy of oxybutynin chloride was evaluated in a total of 580 participants who received oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in four clinical trials ( 429 patients ) and four pharmacokinetic studies ( 151 healthy volunteers ) .
The 429 patients were treated with 5 to 30 mg / day for up to 4 . 5 months .
Three of the four clinical trials allowed dose adjustments based on efficacy and adverse events and one was a fixed dose escalation design .
Safety information is provided for 429 patients from these three controlled clinical studies and one open label study in the first column of Table 2 below .
Adverse events from two additional fixed dose , active controlled , 12 week treatment duration , post - marketing studies , in which 576 patients were treated with oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets 10 mg / day , are also listed in Table 2 ( second column ) .
The adverse events are reported regardless of causality .
Table 2 Incidence ( % ) of Adverse Events Reported by ≥ 5 % of Patients Using Oxybutynin Chloride Extended - release Tablets ( 5 to 30 mg / day ) and % of Corresponding Adverse Events in Two Fixed Dose ( 10 mg / day ) StudiesBody System Adverse Event Oxybutynin Chloride ER Tablets 5 to 30 mg / day ( n = 429 ) Oxybutynin Chloride ER Tablets 10 mg / day ( n = 576 ) General headache 10 6 asthenia 7 3 pain 7 4 Digestive dry mouth 61 29 constipation 13 7 diarrhea 9 7 nausea 9 2 dyspepsia 7 5 Nervous somnolence 12 2 dizziness 6 4 Respiratory rhinitis 6 2 Special senses blurred vision 8 1 dry eyes 6 3 Urogenital urinary tract infection 5 5 The most common adverse events reported by the 429 patients receiving 5 to 30 mg / day oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets were the expected side effects of anticholinergic agents .
The incidence of dry mouth was dose related .
The discontinuation rate for all adverse events was 6 . 8 % in the 429 patients from the four studies of efficacy and safety who received 5 to 30 mg / day .
The most frequent adverse event causing early discontinuation of study medication was nausea ( 1 . 9 % ) , while discontinuation due to dry mouth was 1 . 2 % .
In addition , the following adverse events were reported by greater than or equal to 1 to less than 5 % of all patients who received oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets in the six adjustable and fixed dose efficacy and safety studies .
Infections and Infestations : nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , bronchitis , cystitis ; Psychiatric Disorders : insomnia , depression , nervousness , confusional state ; Nervous System Disorders : dysgeusia ; Cardiac Disorders : palpitations ; Vascular Disorders : hypertension ; Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : nasal dryness , cough , pharyngolaryngeal pain , dry throat ; Gastrointestinal Disorders : gastroesophageal reflux disease , abdominal pain , loose stools , flatulence , vomiting ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : dry skin , pruritis ; Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : back pain , arthralgia , pain in extremity ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : urinary retention , urinary hesitation , dysuria ; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : fatigue , edema peripheral , asthenia , chest pain ; Investigations : blood pressure increased .
Post - Marketing SurveillanceBecause post - marketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following additional adverse drug reactions have been reported from worldwide post - marketing experience with oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets : Psychiatric Disorders : psychotic disorder , agitation , hallucinations ; Nervous System Disorders : convulsions ; Cardiac Disorders : arrhythmia ; tachycardia ; Vascular Disorders : flushing ; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : rash ; Renal and Urinary Disorders : impotence ; Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications : fall .
Additional adverse events reported with some other oxybutynin chloride formulations include : cycloplegia , mydriasis , and suppression of lactation .
OVERDOSAGE The continuous release of oxybutynin from oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets should be considered in the treatment of overdosage .
Patients should be monitored for at least 24 hours .
Treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Activated charcoal as well as a cathartic may be administered .
Overdosage with oxybutynin chloride has been associated with anticholinergic effects including central nervous system excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Ingestion of 100 mg oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 year old boy who experienced memory loss , and a 34 year old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients fully recovered with symptomatic treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids , and must not be chewed , divided , or crushed .
Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets may be administered with or without food .
AdultsThe recommended starting dose of oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets is 5 mg or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day .
Dosage may be adjusted in 5 mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability ( up to a maximum of 30 mg / day ) .
In general , dosage adjustment may proceed at approximately weekly intervals .
Pediatric PatientsDosing information for pediatric patients aged 6 years and older is approved for Alza Corporation ’ s oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets .
However , due to Alza Corporation ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
HOW SUPPLIED Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , USP are available containing 5 mg or 10 mg of oxybutynin chloride , USP .
The 5 mg tablets are light green film coated , round , unscored tablets with M over O 5 imprinted in black ink on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 54868 - 5742 - 0 , bottles of 10 tablets NDC 54868 - 5742 - 1 bottles of 30 tablets NDC 54868 - 5742 - 2 bottles of 60 tablets NDC 54868 - 5742 - 3 bottles of 90 tablets The 10 mg tablets are peach film coated , round , unscored tablets with M over O 10 imprinted in black ink on one side of the tablet and blank on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 54868 - 5728 - 0 bottles of 10 tablets NDC 54868 - 5728 - 1 bottles of 30 tablets Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP for Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from moisture and humidity .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 REVISED JANUARY 2009 OXBN : R2 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Oxybutynin chloride extended - release tablets , USP 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
