Active ingredients Naphazoline Hydrochloride ( 0 . 012 % ) Polyethylene Glycol 300 ( 0 . 2 % ) Purpose Redness reliever Lubricant Uses • • Relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations .
• • Temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye .
• • Protects against further irritation .
Warnings Do not use • • If solution changes color or becomes cloudy Ask a doctor before use if you have • • narrow angle glaucoma When using this product • • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • do not overuse as it may produce increased redness of the eye • • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • • remove contact lenses before using • • replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye • • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to four times daily Other information • • store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) • • keep tightly closed • • use before expiration date marked on the carton and bottle • • serious side effects associated with use of the product may be reported to the phone number provided below Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) , boric acid , edetate disodium , purified water , sodium borate , sodium chloride .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be used to adjust pH . Questions ?
Call : 1 - 866 - 767 - 8975 DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID , 30 HUNTER LANE CAMP HILL , PA 17011 MADE IN USA © RITE AID ITEM 302153 9360700 LR55811 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] RITE AID ® PHARMACY INSTANT RELIEF eye care sterile eye drops redness reliever and lubricant eye drops REDNESS RELIEF fast acting formula for irritated eyes refreshes , moisturizes and comforts 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
