Rx only DESCRIPTION : Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment belongs to the macrolide group of antibiotics .
It is basic and readily forms a salt when combined with an acid .
The base , as crystals or powder , is slightly soluble in water , moderately soluble in ether , and readily soluble in alcohol or chloroform .
Erythromycin ( ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - 0 - methyl - ɑ - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - ß - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione ) is an antibiotic produced from a strain of Streptomyces erythraeus .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Formula : C37H67NO13 Molecular Weight : 733 . 94 Each gram contains Erythromycin USP 5 mg in a sterile ophthalmic base of mineral oil and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Microbiology : Erythromycin inhibits protein synthesis without affecting nucleic acid synthesis .
Erythromycin is usually active against the following organisms in vitro and in clinical infections : Streptococcus pyogenes ( group A ß - hemolytic ) Alpha - hemolytic streptococci ( viridans group ) Staphylococcus aureus , including penicillinase - producing strains ( methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to erythromycin ) Streptococcus pneumoniae Mycoplasma pneumoniae ( Eaton Agent , PPLO ) Haemophilus influenzae ( not all strains of this organism are susceptible at the erythromycin concentrations ordinarily achieved ) Treponema pallidum Corynebacterium diphtheriae Neisseria gonorrhoeae Chlamydia trachomatis INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For the treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and / or cornea caused by organisms susceptible to erythromycin .
For prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum due to N . gonorrhoeae or C . trachomatis .
The effectiveness of erythromycin in the prevention of ophthalmia caused by penicillinase - producing N . gonorrhoeae is not established .
For infants born to mothers with clinically apparent gonorrhea , intravenous or intramuscular injections of aqueous crystalline penicillin G should be given ; a single dose of 50 , 000 units for term infants or 20 , 000 units for infants of low birth weight .
Topical prophylaxis alone is inadequate for these infants .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This drug is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to erythromycin .
PRECAUTIONS : General : The use of antimicrobial agents may be associated with the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi ; in such a case , antibiotic administration should be stopped and appropriate measures taken .
Information for Patients : Avoid contaminating the applicator tip with material from the eye , fingers , or other source .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Two year oral studies conducted in rats with erythromycin did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
Mutagenicity studies have not been conducted .
No evidence of impaired fertility that appeared related to erythromycin was reported in animal studies .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects Pregnancy category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice , and rabbits using erythromycin and its various salts and esters , at doses that were several multiples of the usual human dose .
No evidence of harm to the fetus that appeared related to erythromycin was reported in these studies .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , the erythromycins should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : See INDICATIONS AND USAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The most frequently reported adverse reactions are minor ocular irritations , redness , and hypersensitivity reactions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : In the treatment of superficial ocular infections , a ribbon approximately 1 cm in length of Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment should be applied directly to the infected structure up to 6 times daily , depending on the severity of the infection .
For prophylaxis of neonatal gonococcal or chlamydial conjunctivitis , a ribbon of ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be instilled into each lower conjunctival sac .
The ointment should not be flushed from the eye following instillation .
A new tube should be used for each infant .
HOW SUPPLIED : Sterile Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment USP , 5 mg / g as follows : 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 oz ) tamper - evident tubes NDC 54868 - 0644 - 1 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Fera Pharmaceuticals , LLC Locust Valley , NY 11560 FPEH00N Rev . 09 / 09 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON LABEL 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 Oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only ERYTHROMYCIN OPHTHALMIC OINTMENT USP STERILE USUAL DOSAGE : Apply to the affected area one or more times daily .
See insert for complete information .
CONTAINS : Erythromycin USP 5 mg per gram in a sterile ophthalmic base of Mineral Oil and White Petrolatum .
NET WT 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 Oz ) STORE AT ROOM TEMPERATURE .
AVOID EXCESSIVE HEAT .
PROTECT FROM FREEZING .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
