Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 2 % Sunscreen Homosalate 5 % Sunscreen Octisalate 4 . 4 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 9 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For sunscreen use • apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF factor of 15 or higher and other skin protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am to 2 pm • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect from excessive heat and direct sun .
• may stain some fabrics .
• keep this carton for future reference .
Inactive ingredients Water , Caprylyl Methicone , Glycerin , PEG - 12 Dimethicone / PPG - 20 Crosspolymer , Brassica Campestris / Aleurites Fordi Oil Copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylate - 13 , Polyisobutene , Trehalose , Urea , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Imidazolidinyl Urea , Fragrance , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexylglycerin , Pentylene Glycol , Polysorbate 20 , Serine , Sodium Hydroxide , Pullulan , Algin , Sodium Hyaluronate Questions Call toll free 1 877 - 994 - 3666 Monday to Friday , 8 am to 6 pm , Central time Distributed by : Genomma Lab USA Inc .
Houston , TX 77027 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 g Jar Carton NEW With Sunscreen Cicatricure ® AQUA DEFENSE DAY CREAM WITH SPF 15 Hydrates while helping fade the appearance of first expression lines from daily aggressors Net Wt .
1 . 7 OZ ( 50 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
