Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( Heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a Doctor before use • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pail , nausea or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquie with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor inactive ingredient None Other information Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) TAMPER EVIDENT PACKAGING : CAUTION : THIS PACKAGE HAS BEEN SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION .
DO NOT USE IF PACKAGE IS OPEN , TORN OR MUTILATED .
Directions : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results .
CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
We welcome any questions you may have at Target . com / comments or 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . with US and foreign components Shop Target . com principal display panel Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal EPSOM SALT magnesium sulfate USP saline laxative for relief of occasional constipation soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises UP & UP NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 8 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
