1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration ( leuprolide acetate ) is indicated for palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is a gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonist indicated for : • Palliative treatment of advanced prostatic cancer .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Due to different release characteristics , the dosage strengths are not additive and must be selected based upon the desired dosing schedule ( 2 ) .
• LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 months administration , given as a single intramuscular injection every 12 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 1 LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - Month Administration LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT must be administered under the supervision of a physician .
In patients treated with GnRH analogues for prostate cancer , treatment is usually continued upon development of metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer .
Table 1 .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT Recommended DosingDosage 22 . 5 mg for 3 - Month Administration Recommended Dose 1 injection every 12 weeks The recommended dose of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration is one injection every 12 weeks .
Do not use concurrently a fractional dose , or a combination of doses of this or any depot formulation due to different release characteristics .
Incorporated in a depot formulation , the lyophilized microspheres must be reconstituted and administered every 12 weeks as a single intramuscular injection .
2 . 2 Reconstitution Instructions for LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT • Reconstitute and administer the lyophilized microspheres as a single intramuscular injection .
• The suspension should be administered immediately after reconstitution .
• As with other drugs administered by intramuscular injection , the injection site should be alternated periodically .
• Visually inspect LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT powder ( white to off - white powder ) .
DO NOT USE the vial if clumping or caking is evident .
A thin layer of powder on the wall of the vial is considered normal prior to mixing with the diluent .
The diluent contained in the prefilled syringe should appear clear and colorless .
• Use ONLY the provided diluent for reconstitution of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
DO NOT use other diluents .
• The reconstituted product is a suspension of milky , white color appearance .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is packaged in a commercial kit .
Each kit contains : • One vial containing 22 . 5 mg of leuprolide acetate as lyophilized microspheres .
• One prefilled syringe containing 2 mL of mannitol for injection .
• One MIXJECT transfer device including one needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Please read the instructions completely before you begin .
MIXJECT Preparation Wash your hands with soap and hot water and put on gloves1 immediately prior to preparing the injection .
Place the tray on a clean , flat surface that is covered with a sterile pad or cloth .
Remove the MIXJECT device , the backstop , the prefilled syringe containing the solvent for reconstitution and the LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT vial .
Remove the Flip - Off button from the top of the vial , revealing the rubber stopper .
Place the vial in a standing upright position on the prepared surface .
Disinfect the rubber stopper with the alcohol wipe .
Discard the alcohol wipe and allow the stopper to dry .
Insert the backstop to the flange of the syringe until you feel it snap in place .
Proceed to MIXJECT Activation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] MIXJECT Activation • Peel the cover away from the blister pack containing the vial adapter ( MIXJECT ) .
Do not remove the vial adapter from the blister pack .
Place the blister pack containing the vial adapter firmly on the vial top , piercing the vial .
Push down gently until you feel it snap in place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the cap from the syringe barrel and then , remove the blister pack from the vial adapter .
Connect the syringe to the vial adapter by screwing it clockwise into the opening on the side of the vial adapter .
Be sure to gently twist the syringe until it stops turning to ensure a tight connection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • While holding the vial , place your thumb on the plunger rod and push the plunger rod in all the way to transfer the diluent from the pre - filled syringe into the vial .
Do not release the plunger rod .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Keeping the plunger rod depressed , gently swirl the vial for approximately one minute until a uniform milky - white suspension is obtained .
This will ensure complete mixing of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION and the sterile mannitol solution diluent .
The suspension will now have a milky appearance .
In order to avoid separation of the suspension , proceed to the next steps without delay .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Invert the MIXJECT system so that the vial is at the top .
Grasp the MIXJECT system firmly by the syringe and pull back the plunger rod slowly to draw the reconstituted LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION into the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Return the vial to its upright position , and disconnect the vial adapter from the MIXJECT syringe assembly by grabbing firmly the syringe and turning the plastic cap of the vial adapter clockwise .
Grasp only the plastic cap when removing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Keep the syringe UPRIGHT .
With the opposite hand pull the needle cap upward .
Advance the plunger to expel the air from the syringe .
The syringe containing LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT suspension is now ready for administration .
The suspension should be administered immediately after reconstitution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After cleaning the injection site with an alcohol swab , administer the intramuscular injection by inserting the needle at a 90 degree angle into the gluteal area , anterior thigh , or deltoid ; injection sites should be alternated ( see Figure ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NOTE : If a blood vessel is accidentally penetrated , aspirated blood will be visible just below the luer lock .
If blood is present , remove the needle immediately .
Do not inject the medication .
• Inject the entire contents of the syringe intramuscularly .
• Withdraw the needle .
Once the syringe has been withdrawn , immediately discard the needle into a suitable sharps container .
Dispose the syringe according to local regulations / procedures .
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT For Injection : 22 . 5 mg of leuprolide acetate for 3 - month administration as lyophilized microspheres in a single dose vial as a kit with a prefilled syringe containing 2 mL 0 . 8 % mannitol solution and a MIXJECT transfer device for a single dose injection .
For Injection : 22 . 5 mg of leuprolide acetate in a single dose vial as a kit with a prefilled syringe containing diluent and a MIXJECT transfer device .
( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is contraindicated in : • Hypersensitivity LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to GnRH agonists or any of the excipients in LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
Reports of anaphylactic reactions to GnRH agonists have been reported in the medical literature .
• Hypersensitivity to GnRH , GnRH agonist or any of the excipients in LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
( 4 ) .
5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Tumor Flare : Increased serum testosterone ( ~ 50 % above baseline ) during first week of treatment ; monitor serum testosterone and PSA .
( 5 . 6 ) • Isolated cases of transient worsening of symptoms , or additional signs and symptoms of prostate cancer during the first few weeks of treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • A small number of patients may experience a temporary increase in bone pain which can be managed symptomatically .
( 5 . 1 ) • Isolated cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression have been reported with GnRH agonists , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia and Diabetes : Hyperglycemia and an increased risk of developing diabetes have been reported in men receiving GnRH analogs .
Monitor blood glucose level and manage according to current clinical practice ( 5 . 2 ) • Cardiovascular Diseases : Increased risk of myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death and stroke has been reported in association with use of GnRH analogs in men .
Monitor for cardiovascular disease and manage according to current clinical practice .
( 5 . 3 ) • Effect on QT / QTc Interval : Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong QT interval .
Consider risks and benefits ( 5 . 4 ) • Convulsions have been observed in patients with or without a history of predisposing factors .
Manage convulsions according to the current clinical practice .
( 5 . 5 ) • Monitor serum levels of testosterone following injection of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration .
( 5 . 6 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may cause fetal harm .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Tumor Flare Initially , LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT , like other GnRH agonists , causes increases in serum levels of testosterone to approximately 50 % above baseline during the first weeks of treatment .
Isolated cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression have been observed , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications .
Transient worsening of symptoms may develop .
A small number of patients may experience a temporary increase in bone pain , which can be managed symptomatically .
Patients with metastatic vertebral lesions and / or with urinary tract obstruction should be closely observed during the first few weeks of therapy .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Hyperglycemia and an increased risk of developing diabetes have been reported in men receiving GnRH agonists .
Hyperglycemia may represent development of diabetes mellitus or worsening of glycemic control in patients with diabetes .
Monitor blood glucose and / or glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) periodically in patients receiving a GnRH agonist and manage with current practice for treatment of hyperglycemia or diabetes .
5 . 3 Cardiovascular Diseases Increased risk of developing myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death and stroke has been reported in association with use of GnRH agonists in men .
The risk appears low based on the reported odds ratios , and should be evaluated carefully along with cardiovascular risk factors when determining a treatment for patients with prostate cancer .
Patients receiving a GnRH agonist should be monitored for symptoms and signs suggestive of development of cardiovascular disease and be managed according to current clinical practice .
5 . 4 Effect on QT / QTc Interval Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT / QTc interval .
Providers should consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients with congenital long QT syndrome , congestive heart failure , frequent electrolyte abnormalities , and in patients taking drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected .
Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes .
5 . 5 Convulsions Postmarketing reports of convulsions have been observed in patients on leuprolide acetate therapy .
These included patients with a history of seizures , epilepsy , cerebrovascular disorders , central nervous system anomalies or tumors , and in patients on concomitant medications that have been associated with convulsions such as bupropion and SSRIs .
Convulsions have also been reported in patients in the absence of any of the conditions mentioned above .
Patients receiving a GnRH agonist who experience convulsion should be managed according to current clinical practice .
5 . 6 Laboratory Tests Monitor serum levels of testosterone following injection of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration .
In the majority of patients , testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , and then declined thereafter to castrate levels ( < 50 ng / dL ) within four weeks .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 7 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings in animal studies , LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose , based on body surface area , using an estimated daily dose .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following is discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Tumor Flare [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hyperglycemia and Diabetes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Cardiovascular Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Effect on QT / QTc Interval [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Convulsions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 10 % ) are hot flushes , upper respiratory infection , fatigue , diarrhea , pollakiuria , arthralgia , and injection site pain ( 6 ) .
As with other GnRH agonist , other adverse reactions , including decreased bone density and rare cases of pituitary apoplexy may occur .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cipla at 1 - 866 - 604 - 3268 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - Month Administration In a clinical trial of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration , patients were treated for 24 weeks with 157 / 163 receiving two injections .
The table includes adverse reactions were reported in 5 % or more of the patients during the treatment period as well as the incidence of these adverse reaction that were considered , by the treating physician , to be at least possibly related to LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
Grade 3 - 4 adverse reactions reported as treatment - emergent in 13 % of patients and treatment - related 4 % of patients .
CTCAE v . 3 Table 2 .
Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - Month Administration N = 163 ( % ) Grade 1 - 4 Treatment - Emergent Treatment - Related Hot Flush / Flushing [ 1 ] 128 ( 79 ) 127 ( 78 ) Upper Respiratory Infection [ 2 ] 28 ( 17 ) 0 Fatigue / Asthenia 24 ( 15 ) 22 ( 13 ) Diarrhea 21 ( 13 ) 2 ( 1 ) Pollakiuria 20 ( 12 ) 3 ( 2 ) Arthralgia / Arthritis 18 ( 11 ) 2 ( 1 ) Injection Site Pain / Discomfort 18 ( 11 ) 15 ( 9 ) Constipation 15 ( 9 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Extremity Pain 14 ( 9 ) 0 Nausea 14 ( 9 ) 4 ( 2 ) Nocturia 14 ( 9 ) 3 ( 2 ) Abdominal Pain / Discomfort 13 ( 8 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Urinary Tract Pain 13 ( 8 ) 2 ( 1 ) Dizziness 12 ( 7 ) 2 ( 1 ) Headache / Sinus Headache 12 ( 7 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Urinary Tract Infection 12 ( 7 ) 0 Bone Pain 11 ( 7 ) 4 ( 2 ) Back Pain 10 ( 6 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 ) Hypertension / Blood Pressure Increased 10 ( 6 ) 0 Pruritus / Generalized Pruritus 9 ( 6 ) 3 ( 2 ) [ 1 ] Includes cold sweat , flushing , hot flush , hyperhidrosis , and night sweats [ 2 ] Includes influenza , influenza - like illness , nasal congestion , nasopharyngitis , rhinorrhea , upper respiratory tract infection and congestion In the same study , erectile dysfunction and testicular atrophy were reported in patients on LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg .
Laboratory abnormalities During the treatment period , at least a one grade change in laboratory values was seen ( > 10 % ) in the following : anemia , increased triglyceride , hyperglycemia , increased cholesterol , increased creatine kinase , leukopenia , increased AST , increased creatinine , and increased ALT .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Pituitary apoplexy : During postmarketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
Changes in Bone Density : Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with a GnRH agonist analog .
In a clinical trial , 25 men with prostate cancer , 12 of whom had been treated previously with leuprolide acetate for at least six months , underwent bone density studies as a result of pain .
The leuprolide - treated group had lower bone density scores than the nontreated control group .
It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men will have effects on bone density .
Immune Disorders : Anaphylaxis Psychiatric Disorders : Depression Respiratory Disorders : Pneumonitis , Interstitial Lung Disease 7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
7 . 1 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT in therapeutic doses results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Normal function is usually restored within three months after treatment is discontinued .
Due to the suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system by LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT , diagnostic tests of pituitary gonadotropic and gonadal functions conducted during treatment and up to three months after discontinuation of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may be affected .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Females and males of reproductive potential : LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may impair fertility .
Counsel patients on pregnancy planning and prevention .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric : The use of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT formulations are not indicated for use in children ( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric : This label reflects clinical trials for LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT in prostate cancer in which the majority of the subjects studied were at least 65 years of age .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animal studies and mechanism of action , LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
There are no available data in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of a monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose ( see data ) .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Animal Data Major fetal malformations were observed in developmental and reproductive toxicology studies in rabbits after a single administration of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate on day 6 of pregnancy at doses of 0 . 00024 , 0 . 0024 , and 0 . 024 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 1600 to 1 / 16 the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) .
Since a depot formulation was utilized in the study , a sustained exposure to leuprolide was expected throughout the period of organogenesis and to the end of gestation .
Similar studies in rats did not demonstrate an increase in fetal malformations , however , there was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights with the two higher doses of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate in rabbits and with the highest dose ( 0 . 024 mg / kg ) in rats .
8 . 2 .
Lactation The safety and efficacy of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT have not been established in females .
There is no information regarding the presence of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT , a decision should be made to discontinue breastfeeding or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 3 .
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Males Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action , LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the clinical trials for LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT in prostate cancer 74 % of the patients studied were at least 65 years of age .
Hot flushes occurred with equal frequency in those less than or at least 65 years of age .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE There is no experience of over dosage in clinical trials .
In rats , a single subcutaneous dose of 100 mg / kg ( approximately 4 , 000 times the estimated daily human dose based on body surface area ) , resulted in dyspnea , decreased activity , and excessive scratching .
In early clinical trials with daily subcutaneous leuprolide acetate , doses as high as 20 mg / day for up two years caused no adverse effects differing from those observed with the 1 mg / day dose .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Leuprolide acetate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin - releasing hormone ( GnRH ) .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The chemical name is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide acetate ( salt ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Where : n = 1 or 2 Leuprolide acetate has a molecular weight of 1209 . 41 as free base ” .
Leuprolide is freely soluble in water .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT ( leuprolide acetate for depot suspension ) 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration is available in a vial containing white to off white sterile lyophilized microspheres together with the corresponding sterile reconstitution diluent in a pre - filled syringe .
When LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT and the diluent are mixed together they become a suspension intended as an intramuscular injection to be given ONCE EVERY 12 WEEKS as a single dose .
Each vial of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT ( leuprolide acetate for depot suspension ) 22 . 5 mg for 3 - month administration delivers leuprolide acetate ( 22 . 5 mg ) , polylactic acid ( 188 . 4 mg ) , triethylcitrate ( 10 . 4 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 3 . 8 mg ) , mannitol ( 88 . 4 mg ) and carmellose sodium ( 25 mg ) .
The prefilled syringe containing the clear reconstitution diluent ( 2 mL ) contains mannitol ( 16 mg ) , water for injections , and sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid to control pH . Leuprolide acetate for depot suspension is an extended release sterile , single dose injection in suspension form for intramuscular administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Leuprolide acetate , a GnRH agonist , acts as an inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion .
Animal studies indicate that following an initial stimulation , continuous administration of leuprolide acetate results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
This effect was reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
Administration of leuprolide acetate has resulted in inhibition of the growth of certain hormone dependent tumors ( prostatic tumors in Noble and Dunning male rats and DMBA - induced mammary tumors in female rats ) as well as atrophy of the reproductive organs .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In humans , administration of leuprolide acetate results in an initial increase in circulating levels of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , leading to a transient increase in levels of the gonadal steroids ( testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males , and estrone and estradiol in premenopausal females ) .
However , continuous administration of leuprolide acetate results in decreased levels of LH and FSH .
In males , testosterone is reduced to below castrate threshold .
In premenopausal females , estrogens are reduced to postmenopausal concentrations .
These decreases occur within two to four weeks after initiation of treatment .
Long - term studies have shown that continuation of therapy with leuprolide acetate maintains testosterone below the castrate level for more than five years .
Leuprolide acetate is not active when given orally .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following two sequential injections of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg administered with a 3 - month interval , plasma leuprolide concentrations were similar among both cycles .
After first administration , mean plasma leuprolide concentration of 46 . 8 ng / mL was observed at approximately 2 hours and the mean concentration then declined until next injection .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of leuprolide following intravenous bolus administration to healthy male volunteers was 27 L .
In vitro binding to human plasma proteins ranged from 43 % to 49 % .
Elimination The mean systemic clearance of leuprolide following intravenous bolus administration to healthy male volunteers was 7 . 6 L / h , and terminal elimination half - life was approximately 3 hours based on a two - compartment model .
Upon administration with different leuprolide acetate formulations , the major metabolite of leuprolide acetate is a pentapeptide ( M - 1 ) metabolite .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted with leuprolide acetate in rats and mice .
In rats , a dose - related increase of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas was noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses ( 0 . 6 to 4 mg / kg ) .
There was a significant but not dose - related increase of pancreatic islet cell adenomas in females and of testicular interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice , no leuprolide acetate - induced tumors or pituitary abnormalities were observed at a dose as high as 60 mg / kg for two years .
Patients have been treated with leuprolide acetate for up to three years with doses as high as 10 mg / day and for two years with doses as high as 20 mg / day without demonstrable pituitary abnormalities .
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT .
Genotoxicity studies were conducted with leuprolide acetate using bacterial and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of mutagenic effects or chromosomal aberrations .
Leuprolide may reduce male and female fertility .
Administration of leuprolide acetate to male and female rats at dose of 0 . 024 , 0 . 24 , and 2 . 4 mg / kg as monthly depot formulation for up to 3 months ( approximately as low as 1 / 30 of the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) caused atrophy of the reproductive organs , and suppression of reproductive function .
These changes were reversible upon cessation of treatment .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 1 LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg for 3 - Month Administration The efficacy of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg was evaluated in an open - label , multicenter , non - controlled , multiple dose clinical trial which enrolled 162 evaluable patients with prostate cancer .
Patients were administered LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg intramuscularly in 2 doses ( 157 received 2 injections ) with a 3 - month interval .
The median age was 71 years ( range ; 47 - 91 ) , 62 % White , and 30 % Black or African - American .
Castrate levels of serum testosterone ( < 50 ng / dL ) were achieved and maintained from Day 28 to 168 in 94 . 3 % ( 95 % CI : 89 . 4 , 97 . 0 ) of patients .
On Day 28 , 160 of the 162 ( 98 . 8 % ) patients had castrate testosterone levels .
One patient did not achieve a castrate level and one had a missing value .
Testosterone escapes ( any value > 50 ng / dL after castrate levels were achieved ) occurred in four patients .
In addition , three patients had a single unevaluable testosterone level after Day 28 that was considered to be non - castrate in this analysis .
Figure 1 .
Mean testosterone plasma levels during treatment with two three - month IM injections of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES 1 .
“ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT ( leuprolide acetate for depot suspension ) is supplied as a kit consisting of a LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION MIXJECT single - dose delivery system consisting of a vial with a Flip - Off seal containing sterile , white to off white lyophilized leuprolide acetate microspheres incorporated in a biodegradable polymer , a MIXJECT vial adapter containing the needle , and a pre - filled syringe containing clear sterile mannitol solution for injection , USP , 2 mL , pH 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 .
LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT 22 . 5 mg – NDC 69097 - 909 - 50 Storage Store at controlled room temperature at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted between 15ºC and 30ºC ( 59ºC and 86ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity • Inform patients that if they have experienced hypersensitivity with other GnRH agonist drugs like LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT , LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Tumor Flare • Inform patients that LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT can cause tumor flare during the first weeks of treatment .
Inform patients that the increase in testosterone can cause an increase in urinary symptoms or pain .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if uretral obstruction , spinal cord compression , paralysis , or new or worsened symptoms occur after beginning LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia and Diabetes • Advise patients that there is an increased risk of hyperglycemia and diabetes with LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT therapy .
Inform patients that periodic monitoring for hyperglycemia and diabetes is required when being treated with LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Cardiovascular Disease • Inform patients that there is an increased risk of myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death , and stroke with LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT treatment .
Advise patients to immediately report signs and symptoms associated with these events to their healthcare provider for evaluation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Urogenital Disorders • Advise patients that LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may cause impotence .
Infertility • Inform patients that LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT may cause infertility [ ( see Use In Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Continuation of LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT Treatment • Inform patients that LEUPROLIDE ACETATE INJECTION DEPOT is usually continued , often with additional medication , after the development of metastatic castration - resistant prostate cancer [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
For more information or a video demonstration on how to use , scan the code below or call 1 - 866 - 604 - 3268 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : GP - PHARM , S . A . 08777 Sant Quintí de Mediona Spain Distributed by : Cipla USA , Inc . 10 Independence Boulevard , Suite 300 Warren , NJ 07059 Rx only Revised : 05 / 2022 21094490 PR - LP3M605 - US - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69097 - 909 - 50 Rx Only Leuprolide acetate for depot suspension 22 . 5 mg For intramuscular injection See package insert for reconstitution and administration procedures Recommended dose : one intramuscular injection every three month Sterile Must be reconstituted before use Cipla [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69097 - 960 - 31 Rx Only 2 mL mannitol solution ( 0 . 8 % w / v ) Diluent for reconstitution of Leuprolide acetate Depot For intramuscular injection Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) Sterile This syringe dose not contain the active substance [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 69097 - 950 - 32 Rx Only Leuprolide acetate for depot suspension 22 . 5 mg Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) Cipla Sterile Delivers 22 . 5 mg leuprolide acetate 221633 Iss : 04 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
