1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VALCHLOR is indicated for the topical treatment of Stage IA and IB mycosis fungoides - type cutaneous T - cell lymphoma in patients who have received prior skin - directed therapy .
VALCHLOR is an alkylating drug indicated for the topical treatment of Stage IA and IB mycosis fungoides - type cutaneous T - cell lymphoma in patients who have received prior skin - directed therapy ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For topical dermatological use only ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Apply a thin film once daily to affected areas of the skin ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Dosing and Dose Modification For Topical Dermatological Use Only Apply a thin film of VALCHLOR gel once daily to affected areas of the skin .
Stop treatment with VALCHLOR for any grade of skin ulceration , blistering , or moderately - severe or severe dermatitis ( i . e . , marked skin redness with edema ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Upon improvement , treatment with VALCHLOR can be restarted at a reduced frequency of once every 3 days .
If reintroduction of treatment is tolerated for at least one week , the frequency of application can be increased to every other day for at least one week and then to once daily application if tolerated .
2 . 2 Application Instructions VALCHLOR is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 Patients must wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after handling or applying VALCHLOR .
Caregivers must wear disposable nitrile gloves when applying VALCHLOR to patients and wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after removal of gloves .
If there is accidental skin exposure to VALCHLOR , caregivers must immediately wash exposed areas thoroughly with soap and water for at least 15 minutes and remove contaminated clothing [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Patients or caregivers should follow these instructions when applying VALCHLOR : • Apply immediately or within 30 minutes after removal from the refrigerator .
Return VALCHLOR to the refrigerator immediately after each use .
• Apply to completely dry skin at least 4 hours before or 30 minutes after showering or washing .
Allow treated areas to dry for 5 to 10 minutes after application before covering with clothing .
• Emollients ( moisturizers ) may be applied to the treated areas 2 hours before or 2 hours after application .
• Do not use occlusive dressings on areas of the skin where VALCHLOR was applied .
• Avoid fire , flame , and smoking until VALCHLOR has dried [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS The active ingredient in VALCHLOR is mechlorethamine .
Each tube of VALCHLOR contains 60 g of 0 . 016 % w / w mechlorethamine clear gel ( equivalent to 0 . 02 % mechlorethamine HCl ) .
Gel : 0 . 016 % w / w of mechlorethamine ( equivalent to 0 . 02 % mechlorethamine HCl ) in 60 g tubes ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of VALCHLOR is contraindicated in patients with known severe hypersensitivity to mechlorethamine .
Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have occurred with topical formulations of mechlorethamine .
Severe hypersensitivity to mechlorethamine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Mucosal or eye injury : VALCHLOR exposure to mucous membranes , especially of the eyes , can cause mucosal injury which may be severe .
Eye injury may lead to blindness .
Immediately irrigate for at least 15 minutes followed by immediate medical consultation ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Secondary exposure to VALCHLOR : individuals other than the patient must avoid skin contact with VALCHLOR ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) .
• Dermatitis : Monitor patients for redness , swelling , inflammation , itchiness , blisters , ulceration , and secondary skin infections .
Stop treatment or reduce dose frequency ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) .
• Non - melanoma skin cancer : Monitor patients during and after treatment ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Embryo - fetal toxicity : May cause fetal harm ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Flammable gel : VALCHLOR is an alcohol - based gel .
Avoid fire , flame , and smoking until the gel has dried ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 Mucosal or Eye Injury Exposure of the eyes to mechlorethamine causes pain , burns , inflammation , photophobia , and blurred vision .
Blindness and severe irreversible anterior eye injury may occur .
Advise patients that if eye exposure occurs , ( 1 ) immediately irrigate for at least 15 minutes with copious amounts of water , normal saline , or a balanced salt ophthalmic irrigating solution and ( 2 ) obtain immediate medical care ( including ophthalmologic consultation ) .
Exposure of mucous membranes such as the oral mucosa or nasal mucosa causes pain , redness , and ulceration , which may be severe .
Should mucosal contact occur , immediately irrigate for at least 15 minutes with copious amounts of water , followed by immediate medical consultation .
5 . 2 Secondary Exposure to VALCHLOR Avoid direct skin contact with VALCHLOR in individuals other than the patient .
Risks of secondary exposure include dermatitis , mucosal injury , and secondary cancers .
Follow recommended application instructions to prevent secondary exposure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Dermatitis The most common adverse reaction was dermatitis , which occurred in 56 % of the patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Dermatitis was moderately severe or severe in 23 % of patients .
Monitor patients for redness , swelling , inflammation , itchiness , blisters , ulceration , and secondary skin infections .
The face , genitalia , anus , and intertriginous skin are at increased risk of dermatitis .
Follow dose modification instructions for dermatitis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Non - Melanoma Skin Cancer Four percent ( 4 % , 11 / 255 ) of patients developed a non - melanoma skin cancer during the clinical trial or during one year of post - treatment follow - up : 2 % ( 3 / 128 ) of patients receiving VALCHLOR , and 6 % ( 8 / 127 ) of patients receiving the mechlorethamine ointment comparator .
Some of these non - melanoma skin cancers occurred in patients who had received prior therapies known to cause non - melanoma skin cancer .
Monitor patients for non - melanoma skin cancers during and after treatment with VALCHLOR .
Non - melanoma skin cancer may occur on any area of the skin , including untreated areas .
5 . 5 Embryo - fetal Toxicity Based on case reports in humans , findings in animal reproduction studies , its mechanism of action , and genotoxicity findings , mechlorethamine may cause fetal harm .
There are case reports of children born with malformations in pregnant women systemically administered mechlorethamine .
Mechlorethamine was teratogenic and embryo - lethal after a single subcutaneous administration to animals .
Advise women to avoid becoming pregnant while using VALCHLOR .
If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Flammable Gel Alcohol - based products , including VALCHLOR , are flammable .
Follow recommended application instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information : • Mucosal or eye injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Secondary exposure to VALCHLOR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Non - melanoma skin cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are dermatitis , pruritus , bacterial skin infection , skin ulceration or blistering , and hyperpigmentation ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Helsinn Therapeutics ( U . S . ) , Inc . , at 1 - 855 - 482 - 5245 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In a randomized , observer - blinded , controlled trial , VALCHLOR 0 . 016 % ( equivalent to 0 . 02 % mechlorethamine HCl ) was compared to an Aquaphor ® - based mechlorethamine HCl 0 . 02 % ointment ( Comparator ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The maximum duration of treatment was 12 months .
Sixty - three percent ( 63 % ) of patients in the VALCHLOR arm and 67 % in the comparator arm completed 12 months of treatment .
The body system associated with the most frequent adverse reactions was skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders .
The most common adverse reactions ( occurring in at least 5 % of the patients ) are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Most Commonly Reported ( ≥ 5 % ) Cutaneous Adverse Reactions VALCHLOR N = 128 % of patients Comparator N = 127 % of patients Any Grade Moderately - Severe or Severe Any Grade Moderately - Severe or Severe Dermatitis 56 23 58 17 Pruritus 20 4 16 2 Bacterial skin infection 11 2 9 2 Skin ulceration or blistering 6 3 5 2 Skin hyperpigmentation 5 0 7 0 In the clinical trial , moderately - severe to severe skin - related adverse events were managed with treatment reduction , suspension , or discontinuation .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 22 % of patients treated with VALCHLOR and 18 % of patients treated with the comparator .
Sixty - seven percent ( 67 % ) of the discontinuations for adverse reactions occurred within the first 90 days of treatment .
Temporary treatment suspension occurred in 34 % of patients treated with VALCHLOR and 20 % of patients treated with the comparator .
Reductions in dosing frequency occurred in 23 % of patients treated with VALCHLOR and 12 % of patients treated with the comparator .
Reductions in hemoglobin , neutrophil count , or platelet count occurred in 13 % of patients treated with VALCHLOR and 17 % treated with Comparator .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been performed with VALCHLOR .
Systemic exposure has not been observed with topical administration of VALCHLOR ; therefore , systemic drug interactions are not likely .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed ( 8 . 2 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on case reports in humans , findings in animal reproduction studies , its mechanism of action , and genotoxicity findings , mechlorethamine may cause fetal harm .
Available published case reports in pregnant women receiving intravenous mechlorethamine demonstrate that mechlorethamine can cause major birth defects when a pregnant woman is systemically exposed .
In animal reproduction studies , subcutaneous administration of mechlorethamine to pregnant rats and ferrets during organogenesis resulted in embryofetal mortality , alterations to growth , and structural abnormalities .
Based on limited available data with VALCHLOR use in pregnant women , if VALCHLOR is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , patient should be advised of the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data The limited available data with VALCHLOR use in pregnant women does not show evidence of congenital malformation in newborns .
Cases of newborns with congenital malformations have been reported in women who received systemic mechlorethamine during pregnancy .
Animal Data Mechlorethamine caused fetal malformations in the rat and ferret when given as single subcutaneous injections of 1 mg / kg .
Other findings in animals included embryo lethality and growth retardation when administered as a single subcutaneous injection .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of mechlorethamine or its metabolites in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed child , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Because of the potential for topical or systemic exposure to VALCHLOR through exposure to the mother ' s skin and the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child from mechlorethamine , advise patients not to breastfeed during treatment with VALCHLOR .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Females Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with VALCHLOR .
A barrier method of contraception should be used to avoid direct exposure of reproductive organs to VALCHLOR .
Males Based on genotoxicity findings , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with VALCHLOR [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
A barrier method of contraception should be used to avoid direct exposure of reproductive organs to VALCHLOR .
Infertility Based on animal data , mechlorethamine may impair fertility in males and females [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
The reversibility of the effect on fertility is unknown .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 79 patients age 65 and older ( 31 % of the clinical trial population ) were treated with either VALCHLOR or the comparator in the clinical trial .
Forty - four percent ( 44 % ) of patients age 65 or older treated with VALCHLOR achieved a CAILS response compared to 66 % of patients below the age of 65 .
Seventy percent ( 70 % ) of patients age 65 and older experienced cutaneous adverse reactions and 38 % discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions , compared to 58 % and 14 % in patients below the age of 65 , respectively .
Similar differences in discontinuation rates between age subgroups were observed in the comparator group .
11 DESCRIPTION VALCHLOR is a topical product that contains mechlorethamine HCl , an alkylating drug .
Mechlorethamine HCl is a white to off white solid that is very soluble in water and methanol , partially soluble in acetone , and generally not soluble in organic solvents .
Mechlorethamine HCl is designated chemically as 2 - chloro - N - ( 2 - chloroethyl ) - N - methylethanamine hydrochloride .
The molecular weight is 192 . 52 and the melting point is 108 - 111 ° C .
The empirical formula is C 5 H 11 Cl 2 N • HCl , and the structural formula is : CH 3 N ( CH 2 CH 2 Cl ) 2 • HCl .
Each tube of VALCHLOR contains 60 g of a gel containing 0 . 016 % w / w of mechlorethamine ( equivalent to 0 . 02 % mechlorethamine HCl ) in a base of the following inactive ingredients : diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , propylene glycol , isopropyl alcohol , glycerin , lactic acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , sodium chloride , menthol , edetate disodium , butylated hydroxytoluene .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mechlorethamine , also known as nitrogen mustard , is an alkylating agent which inhibits rapidly proliferating cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic exposure was undetectable after topical administration of VALCHLOR to patients .
Blood samples were analyzed from 16 and 15 patients following treatment with VALCHLOR ( mechlorethamine gel 0 . 016 % ) and an identical formulation consisting of mechlorethamine 0 . 032 % w / w , respectively .
For patients who received mechlorethamine 0 . 016 % , samples were collected to measure mechlorethamine concentrations prior to dosing , on day 1 , and at the first month visit .
Following the topical administration of mechlorethamine 0 . 016 % , there were no detectable plasma mechlorethamine concentrations observed in any of the patients .
Patients who received mechlorethamine 0 . 032 % had no measurable concentrations of mechlorethamine or half - mustard after 2 , 4 , or 6 months of treatment .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Mechlorethamine was carcinogenic in mice when injected intravenously with four doses of 2 . 4 mg / kg ( 0 . 1 % solution ) at 2 - week intervals with observations for up to 2 years .
An increased incidence of thymic lymphomas and pulmonary adenomas was observed .
Painting mechlorethamine on the skin of mice at a dose of 4 mg / kg for periods of up to 33 weeks resulted in squamous cell tumors in 9 of 33 mice .
Mechlorethamine was genotoxic in multiple genetic toxicology studies , which included mutations in the bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) and chromosome aberrations in mammalian cells .
Dominant lethal mutations were produced in ICR / Ha Swiss mice .
The reproductive effects of VALCHLOR have not been studied ; however , published literature indicates that fertility may be impaired by systemically administered mechlorethamine .
Mechlorethamine impaired fertility in the male rats at a daily dose of 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg / kg when given intravenously every two weeks for up to 12 doses .
When mechlorethamine was administered intraperitoneally to male and female mice for 4 consecutive days at a dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg the pregnancy rate decreased ( from 80 % to 12 . 5 % ) when treated males were paired with treated females .
Treatment with intravenous mechlorethamine has been associated with delayed catamenia , oligomenorrhea , and temporary or permanent amenorrhea .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Animal studies have shown mechlorethamine to be corrosive to skin and eyes , a powerful vesicant , irritating to the mucous membranes of the respiratory tract , and highly toxic by the oral route .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of VALCHLOR was assessed in a randomized , multicenter , observer - blind , active - controlled , non - inferiority clinical trial of 260 patients with Stage IA , IB , and IIA mycosis fungoides - type cutaneous T - cell lymphoma ( MF - CTCL ) who had received at least one prior skin - directed therapy .
Qualifying prior therapies included topical corticosteroids , phototherapy , Targretin ® gel , and topical nitrogen mustard .
Patients were not required to be refractory to or intolerant of prior therapies .
Patients were stratified based on Stage ( IA vs . IB and IIA ) and then randomized to receive VALCHLOR 0 . 016 % ( equivalent to 0 . 02 % mechlorethamine HCl ) or Aquaphor ® - based mechlorethamine HCl 0 . 02 % ointment ( Comparator ) at 13 centers in the United States .
Eighteen patients were excluded from the efficacy analysis due to protocol violations involving randomization at a single site .
Study drug was to be applied topically on a daily basis for 12 months .
Concomitant use of topical corticosteroids was not permitted during the study .
Dosing could be suspended or continued with reduced frequency for dermatitis .
The mean daily usage of VALCHLOR gel was 2 . 8 g ( 1 to 2 tubes per month ) .
The maximum daily usage was 10 . 5 g ( 5 to 6 tubes per month ) .
Patients were evaluated for a response on a monthly basis for the first 6 months and then every 2 months for the last 6 months using the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity ( CAILS ) score .
The CAILS score is obtained by adding the severity score of each of the following categories for up to 5 index lesions : erythema , scaling , plaque elevation , and surface area .
Severity was graded from 0 ( none ) to 8 ( severe ) for erythema and scaling ; 0 to 3 for plaque elevation ; and 0 to 9 for surface area .
A response was defined as greater than or equal to 50 % reduction in baseline CAILS score which was confirmed at the next visit at least 4 weeks later .
A complete response was defined as a confirmed CAILS score of 0 .
Non - inferiority was considered to have been demonstrated if the lower bound of the 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) around the ratio of response rates ( VALCHLOR / Comparator ) was greater than or equal to 0 . 75 .
Patients were also evaluated using the Severity Weighted Assessment Tool ( SWAT ) .
The SWAT score is derived by measuring each involved area as a percentage of total body surface area ( % BSA ) and multiplying it by a severity weighting factor ( 1 = patch , 2 = plaque , 3 = tumor or ulcer ) .
A response was defined as greater than or equal to 50 % reduction in baseline SWAT score which was confirmed at the next visit at least 4 weeks later .
The baseline demographics and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment arms .
The median age was 57 years in the VALCHLOR arm and 58 years in the comparator arm .
The majority of the patients were male ( 60 % in VALCHLOR arm , 59 % in Comparator arm ) and white ( 75 % in both treatment arms ) .
The median number of prior therapies was 2 in both treatment arms .
The most common prior therapy was topical corticosteroids ( used in 86 % of patients in both treatment arms ) .
The median body surface area ( BSA ) involvement at baseline was 8 . 5 % ( range 1 % , 61 % ) in the VALCHLOR arm and 9 % ( range 1 % , 76 % ) in the comparator arm .
Sixty percent ( 60 % ) of the patients on the VALCHLOR arm and 48 % of patients on the comparator arm achieved a response based on the CAILS score .
VALCHLOR was non - inferior to the comparator based on a CAILS overall response rate ratio of 1 . 24 ( 95 % CI 0 . 98 , 1 . 58 ) .
Complete responses constituted a minority of the CAILS or SWAT overall responses ( Table 2 ) .
The onset of CAILS overall response for both treatment arms showed a wide range from 1 to 11 months .
Table 2 .
Efficacy in Patients with Mycosis Fungoides - Type Cutaneous T - Cell Lymphoma ( MF - CTCL ) Response Rates VALCHLOR N = 119 Comparator N = 123 CAILS Overall Response ( CR + PR ) Complete Response ( CR ) Partial Response ( PR ) 60 % 14 % 45 % 48 % 11 % 37 % SWAT Overall Response ( CR + PR ) Complete Response ( CR ) Partial Response ( PR ) 50 % 7 % 43 % 46 % 3 % 43 % 15 REFERENCES 1 OSHA Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VALCHLOR is supplied in 60 g tubes of 0 . 016 % w / w mechlorethamine as a clear gel [ NDC 69639 - 120 - 01 ] .
Prior to dispensing , store in the freezer at - 13 ° F to 5 ° F ( - 25 ° C to - 15 ° C ) .
Advise patients that refrigerated storage is required once dispensed .
VALCHLOR is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures .
1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) Advise patients of the following and provide a copy of the Medication Guide .
Instructions for Patients and Caregivers for Application of VALCHLOR : Apply a thin film of VALCHLOR once daily to affected areas of the skin [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Patients must wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after handling or applying VALCHLOR .
Caregivers must wear disposable nitrile gloves when applying VALCHLOR to patients and wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after removal of gloves .
If there is accidental skin exposure to VALCHLOR , caregivers must immediately wash exposed areas thoroughly with soap and water and remove contaminated clothing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Patients and caregivers should follow these instructions when applying VALCHLOR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] : • Apply immediately or within 30 minutes after removal from the refrigerator .
Return VALCHLOR to the refrigerator immediately after each use .
• Apply VALCHLOR to completely dry skin at least 4 hours before or 30 minutes after showering or washing .
Allow treated areas to dry for 5 to 10 minutes after application before covering with clothing .
• Emollients ( moisturizers ) may be applied to the treated areas 2 hours before or 2 hours after application of VALCHLOR .
• Occlusive ( air or water - tight ) dressings should not be used on areas of the skin where VALCHLOR was applied .
Instructions for Patients and Caregivers for Storage of VALCHLOR Store VALCHLOR refrigerated at temperatures between 36 ° F - 46 ° F ( 2 ° C - 8 ° C ) .
Advise patients that adherence to the recommended storage condition will ensure VALCHLOR will work as expected .
Patients should consult a pharmacist prior to using VALCHLOR that has been left at room temperature for longer than one hour per day .
Unused product should be discarded after 90 days [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
With clean hands , replace tube in the original box , then place in the refrigerator .
Keep VALCHLOR in its original box out of the reach of children and avoid contact with food when storing in the refrigerator .
Unused VALCHLOR , empty tubes , and used application gloves should be discarded in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by others , including children and pets .
Mucosal or Eye Injury Exposure of the eyes to mechlorethamine causes pain , burns , inflammation , photophobia , and blurred vision .
Blindness and severe irreversible eye injury may occur .
Should eye contact occur , immediately irrigate for at least 15 minutes with copious amounts of water , normal saline , or a balanced salt ophthalmic irrigating solution , followed by immediate ophthalmologic consultation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Exposure of mucous membranes such as the oral mucosa or nasal mucosa causes pain , redness , and ulceration , which may be severe .
Should mucosal contact occur , immediately irrigate for at least 15 minutes with copious amounts of water , followed by immediate medical consultation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Secondary Exposure to VALCHLOR Avoid direct skin contact with VALCHLOR in individuals other than the patient .
Risks of secondary exposure include dermatitis , mucosal injury , and secondary cancers .
Caregivers who help apply VALCHLOR to patients must wear disposable nitrile gloves when handling VALCHLOR .
If secondary exposure occurs to eyes , mouth , or nose , immediately irrigate the exposed area for at least 15 minutes with copious amounts of water .
Thoroughly wash affected areas of the skin with soap and water [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Dermatitis If patients experience skin irritation after applying VALCHLOR , such as redness , swelling , inflammation , itchiness , blisters , ulceration , or secondary skin infections , instruct patients to discuss with their physician options for changes in the treatment plan .
The face , genitalia , anus , or intertriginous skin ( skin folds or creases ) are at increased risk of skin irritation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Non - Melanoma Skin Cancers Instruct patients to notify their physician of any new skin lesions and to undergo periodic assessment for signs and symptoms of skin cancer .
Non - melanoma skin cancers have been reported in patients receiving the active ingredient in VALCHLOR .
Non - melanoma skin cancer may occur at multiple areas , including areas not directly treated with VALCHLOR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - fetal Toxicity Advise women of the potential risk to the fetus and to avoid pregnancy while using VALCHLOR .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use a barrier method of contraception while using VALCHLOR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with VALCHLOR [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Helsinn Therapeutics , ( U . S . ) , Inc . , Iselin , NJ 08830 MEDICATION GUIDE VALCHLOR ® ( val - klor ) ( mechlorethamine ) gel Important information : VALCHLOR is for use on skin only .
Do not get VALCHLOR near or in your eyes , mouth , or nose .
What is the most important information I should know about VALCHLOR ?
Keep VALCHLOR away from your eyes , mouth , and nose .
• If VALCHLOR gets in your eyes it can cause eye pain , burning , swelling , redness , sensitivity to light , and blurred vision .
It may also cause blindness and permanent injury to your eyes .
If VALCHLOR gets in your eyes , rinse your eyes right away for at least 15 minutes with a large amount of water , normal saline , or an eye wash solution .
• If VALCHLOR gets in your mouth or nose it can cause pain , redness , and ulcers .
Rinse the affected area right away for at least 15 minutes with a large amount of water .
Get medical help right away if VALCHLOR gets in your eyes , mouth , or nose .
Talk with your healthcare provider before using VALCHLOR about how to get medical help .
What is VALCHLOR ?
VALCHLOR is a prescription medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat people with Stage 1 A and 1 B mycosis fungoides - type cutaneous T - cell lymphoma who have received previous skin treatment .
It is not known if VALCHLOR is safe and effective in children .
Do not use VALCHLOR if you are severely allergic to mechlorethamine .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have had an allergic reaction to mechlorethamine .
Before using VALCHLOR , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
VALCHLOR may harm your unborn baby .
Avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with VALCHLOR .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while using VALCHLOR .
- Females who are able to become pregnant should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide , during treatment with VALCHLOR .
- Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant should use a barrier method of birth control , such as a male condom or spermicide , during treatment with VALCHLOR .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VALCHLOR passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with VALCHLOR .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use VALCHLOR ?
• Use VALCHLOR exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Caregivers must wear disposable nitrile gloves when applying VALCHLOR .
• Wash your hands with soap and water after touching or applying VALCHLOR .
• Safely throw away used disposable nitrile gloves in household trash .
• Apply VALCHLOR right away or within 30 minutes after you take it out of the refrigerator .
• Return VALCHLOR to the refrigerator right after each use .
• Apply a thin layer of VALCHLOR 1 time each day ( or as instructed by your healthcare providers ) to completely dry affected areas of the skin at least 4 hours before or 30 minutes after showering or washing .
• Let the treated areas dry for 5 to 10 minutes after applying VALCHLOR before covering with clothing .
• Moisturizers may be applied to the treated areas 2 hours before or 2 hours after applying VALCHLOR .
• You should not use air or water - tight bandages on areas of the skin treated with VALCHLOR .
What should I avoid while using VALCHLOR ?
VALCHLOR is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , and smoking until VALCHLOR has dried .
What are the possible side effects of VALCHLOR ?
See " What is the most important information I should know about VALCHLOR ? "
VALCHLOR can cause serious side effects , including : • Risk of Secondary Exposure to VALCHLOR .
You may have a risk of inflammation of your skin ( dermatitis ) , injury to your eyes , mouth , or nose , and certain types of cancers .
Caregivers who accidentally come into contact with VALCHLOR must wash the affected area with soap and water right away for at least 15 minutes and remove any contaminated clothing .
Get medical help right away if VALCHLOR gets in your eyes , mouth , or nose .
• Inflammation of your skin ( dermatitis ) is common with VALCHLOR and may sometimes be severe .
Your risk for dermatitis is increased if VALCHLOR is applied to your face , genital area , anus , or skin folds .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop skin reactions such as redness , swelling , itching , blisters , ulcers , and skin infections .
• Increased risk of certain types of skin cancers .
Certain types of skin cancer can develop on areas of your skin that are treated with VALCHLOR and areas of your skin that are not treated with VALCHLOR .
Your healthcare provider will check your skin for skin cancers during and after your treatment with VALCHLOR .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any new skin lesions .
The most common side effects of VALCHLOR include : redness , swelling , itching , skin ulcers or blisters , skin infection , and darkening of areas of your skin .
VALCHLOR may cause fertility problems in females and males .
This could affect the ability to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
These are not all the possible side effects of VALCHLOR .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VALCHLOR ?
• Store VALCHLOR in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Keep VALCHLOR away from food in the refrigerator .
• With clean hands , place VALCHLOR back in the box it came in and return it to the refrigerator right after each use .
• Talk with your pharmacist before you use VALCHLOR that has been out of the refrigerator for more than one hour a day .
• Safely throw away VALCHLOR that is not used after 90 days .
Unused VALCHLOR , empty tubes , and used disposable nitrile gloves should be safely thrown away in household trash .
• Keep VALCHLOR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VALCHLOR .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use VALCHLOR for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VALCHLOR to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about VALCHLOR that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in VALCHLOR ?
Active ingredient : mechlorethamine Inactive ingredients : diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , propylene glycol , isopropyl alcohol , glycerin , lactic acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , sodium chloride , menthol , edetate disodium , butylated hydroxytoluene Manufactured for : Helsinn Therapeutics ( U . S . ) , Inc . , Iselin , NJ 08830 For more information , go to www . VALCHLOR . com or call 1 - 855 - 482 - 5245 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 01 / 2020 Principal Display Panel - 60 g Tube Carton VALCHLOR ® ( mechlorethamine ) gel 0 . 016 % For Topical Use Dispense with Medication Guide Before dispensing , store in freezer After dispensing , store refrigerated RX Only NET WT 60 grams NDC 69639 - 120 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tube Label - Front [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tube Label - Back [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
