FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each mL contains 23 mg of selenium sulfide in a vehicle consisting of : ammonium lauryl sulfate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , chromium oxide green , citric acid , cocamidopropyl betaine , D & C yellow no 8 , diazolidinyl urea , distearyl phthalic acid amide , edetate disodium , fragrance , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylparaben , panthenol , PPG - 2 hydroxyethyl coco / isostearamide , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , FD & C red no 40 , sodium citrate , titanium dioxide , tocopheryl acetate , urea , and zinc pyrithione .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Selenium sulfide appears to have a cytostatic effect on cells of the epidermis and follicular epithelium , reducing corneocyte production .
Pharmacokinetics : The mechanism of action of topically applied selenium sulfide is not yet known .
INDICATIONS : Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo is a liquid antiseborrheic , antifungal preparation useful for the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp , dandruff and tinea versicolor .
Urea hydrates and is useful for conditions such as dry scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
General : Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo is to be used as directed by a licensed medical practitioner and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a licensed medical practitioner .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Dermal application of 25 % and 50 % solutions of 2 . 5 % selenium sulfide lotion on mice over an 88 - week period indicated no carcinogenic effects .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In decreasing order of severity : skin irritation ; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss ; discoloration of hair ( can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment ) .
As with other shampoos , oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur .
Call your licensed medical practitioner for medical advice about side effects .
To report a serious adverse event , call 1 - 888 - 767 - 7913 .
OVERDOSAGE : There are no documented reports of serious toxicity in humans resulting from acute ingestion of this product .
However , acute toxicity studies in animals suggest that ingestion of large amounts could result in potential human toxicity .
Evacuation of the stomach contents should be considered in cases of acute oral ingestion .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : For seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff : Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Generally , two applications each week for two weeks will control symptoms .
Subsequently , shampoo may be used less frequently , or as directed by a licensed medical practitioner .
It should not be applied more frequently than necessary to maintain control .
For tinea versicolor : Wet skin and apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into the skin working into a full lather .
Allow product to remain on skin for ten minutes , then rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
Repeat procedure once a day for seven days , or as directed by a licensed medical practitioner .
HOW SUPPLIED : Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo is supplied in a 6 fl .
oz .
( 180 mL ) bottle , NDC 42494 - 336 - 06 .
STORAGE : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product has not been evaluated for therapeutic equivalence .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Rx only Manufactured for : Cameron Pharmaceuticals , LLC 1009 Twilight Trail Frankfort , Kentucky 40601 Rev . 08 / 2015 Principal Display Panel - 180 mL Bottle Carton NDC 42494 - 336 - 06 Selenium Sulfide 2 . 3 % Shampoo FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Cameron Pharmaceuticals ™ Net wt .
6 fl .
oz .
( 180 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
