1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adenosine Injection is indicated as an adjunct to thallium - 201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in patients unable to exercise adequately .
Adenosine Injection , a pharmacologic stress agent , is indicated as an adjunct to thallium - 201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in patients unable to exercise adequately ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adenosine injection dose is 0 . 14 mg / kg / min infused over six minutes ( total dose of 0 . 84 mg / kg ) ( Table 1 ) .
• • Administer adenosine injection only as a continuous peripheral intravenous infusion • • Inject Thallium - 201 at the midpoint of the adenosine injection infusion ( i . e . , after the first three minutes of adenosine injection ) • • Thallium - 201 is physically compatible with adenosine injection and may be injected directly into the adenosine injection infusion set • • Inject Thallium - 201 as close to the venous access as possible to prevent an inadvertent increase in the dose of adenosine injection ( the contents of the intravenous tubing ) being administered Visually inspect adenosine injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not administer adenosine injection if it contains particulate matter or is discolored .
There are no data on the safety or efficacy of alternative adenosine injection infusion protocols .
The safety and efficacy of adenosine injection administered by the intracoronary route have not been established .
Table 1 Dosage Chart for Adenosine Injection Patient Weight ( kilograms ) Infusion Rate ( mL per minute over 6 minutes for total dose of 0 . 84 mg / kg ) 45 2 . 1 50 2 . 3 55 2 . 6 60 2 . 8 65 3 70 3 . 3 75 3 . 5 80 3 . 8 85 4 90 4 . 2 The nomogram displayed in Table 1 was derived from the following general formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Recommended dose is 0 . 14 mg / kg / min infused over six minutes as a continuous peripheral intravenous infusion ( total dose of 0 . 84 mg / kg ) ( 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Adenosine Injection , USP is supplied as 20 mL and 30 mL single - dose vials containing a sterile , nonpyrogenic , clear solution of adenosine 3 mg per mL .
Adenosine Injection : 3 mg per mL in single - dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Adenosine is contraindicated in patients with : • • Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Sinus node disease , such as sick sinus syndrome or symptomatic bradycardia ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Known or suspected bronchoconstrictive or bronchospastic lung disease ( e . g . , asthma ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Known hypersensitivity to adenosine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) ( 4 ) • • Sinus node disease , such as sick sinus syndrome or symptomatic bradycardia ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) ( 4 ) • • Known or suspected bronchoconstrictive or bronchospastic lung disease ( e . g . , asthma ) ( 4 ) • • Known hypersensitivity to adenosine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Cardiac Arrest , Ventricular Arrhythmias , and Myocardial Infarction .
Fatal cardiac events have occurred .
Avoid use in patients with symptoms or signs of acute myocardial ischemia .
Appropriate resuscitative measures should be available ( 5 . 1 ) • • Sinoatrial ( SA ) and Atrioventricular ( AV ) Nodal Block .
First - , second - or third - degree AV block , or sinus bradycardia can occur .
Discontinue adenosine if patient develops persistent or symptomatic high - grade AV block ( 5 . 2 ) • • Bronchoconstriction .
Can induce dyspnea , bronchoconstriction , and respiratory compromise , especially in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease .
Discontinue adenosine if patient develops severe respiratory difficulties ( 5 . 3 ) • • Hypotension .
Significant hypotension can occur .
Discontinue adenosine if patient develops persistent or symptomatic hypotension ( 5 . 4 ) • • Cerebrovascular Accidents .
Hemorrhagic and ischemic cerebrovascular accidents have occurred ( 5 . 5 ) • • Seizures .
New onset or recurrence of convulsive seizures have occurred .
Use of methylxanthines ( e . g . , caffeine , aminophylline and theophylline ) is not recommended in patients who experience a seizures in association with adenosine ( 5 . 6 ) • • Hypersensitivity .
Dyspnea , throat tightness , flushing , erythema , rash , and chest discomfort have occurred .
Have personnel and resuscitative equipment immediately available ( 5 . 7 ) • • Atrial Fibrillation .
Reported in patients with or without a history of atrial fibrillation ( 5 . 8 ) • • Hypertension .
Clinically significant increases in systolic and diastolic pressure have been observed ( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Cardiac Arrest , Ventricular Arrhythmias , and Myocardial Infarction Fatal and nonfatal cardiac arrest , sustained ventricular tachycardia ( requiring resuscitation ) , and myocardial infarction have occurred following adenosine infusion .
Avoid use in patients with symptoms or signs of acute myocardial ischemia , for example , unstable angina or cardiovascular instability ; these patients may be at greater risk of serious cardiovascular reactions to adenosine .
Appropriate resuscitative measures should be available [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 2 Sinoatrial and Atrioventricular Nodal Block Adenosine exerts a direct depressant effect on the SA and AV nodes and may cause first - , second - or third - degree AV block , or sinus bradycardia .
In clinical trials , approximately 6 % of patients developed AV block following adenosine administration ( first - degree heart block developed in 3 % , second - degree in 3 % , and third - degree in 0 . 8 % of patients ) [ see Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Use adenosine with caution in patients with pre - existing first - degree AV block or bundle branch block .
Do not use in patients with high - grade AV block or sinus node dysfunction ( except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemaker ) .
Discontinue adenosine in any patient who develops persistent or symptomatic high - grade AV block .
5 . 3 Bronchoconstriction Adenosine administration can cause dyspnea , bronchoconstriction , and respiratory compromise .
Adenosine should be used with caution in patients with obstructive lung disease not associated with bronchoconstriction ( e . g . , emphysema , bronchitis ) .
Do not use in patients with bronchoconstriction or bronchospasm ( e . g . , asthma ) .
Discontinue adenosine in any patient who develops severe respiratory difficulties .
Resuscitative measures should be available prior to adenosine administration [ see Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypotension Adenosine is a potent peripheral vasodilator and can induce significant hypotension .
The risk of serious hypotension may be higher in patients with autonomic dysfunction , hypovolemia , stenotic valvular heart disease , pericarditis or pericardial effusions , or stenotic carotid artery disease with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
Discontinue adenosine in any patient who develops persistent or symptomatic hypotension .
5 . 5 Cerebrovascular Accident Hemorrhagic and ischemic cerebrovascular accidents have occurred .
Hemodynamic effects of adenosine including hypotension or hypertension can be associated with these adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
5 . 6 Seizures New - onset or recurrence of convulsive seizures has occurred following adenosine .
Some seizures are prolonged and require emergent anticonvulsive management .
Aminophylline may increase the risk of seizures associated with adenosine .
Methylxanthine use is not recommended in patients who experience seizures in association with adenosine administration [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity , Including Anaphylaxis Dyspnea , throat tightness , flushing , erythema , rash , and chest discomfort have occurred .
Symptomatic treatment may be required .
Have personnel and appropriate treatment available .
Resuscitative measures may be necessary if symptoms progress [ see Post - Marketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 8 Atrial Fibrillation Adenosine can cause atrial fibrillation in patients with or without a history of atrial fibrillation .
Atrial fibrillation typically began 1 . 5 to 3 minutes after initiation of adenosine , lasted for 15 seconds to 6 hours , and spontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm [ see Post - Marketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 9 Hypertension Adenosine can induce clinically significant increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure .
Most increases resolved spontaneously within several minutes , but in some cases , hypertension lasted for several hours [ see Clinical Trials Experience ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the prescribing information : • • Fatal Cardiac Arrest , Ventricular Arrhythmias , and Myocardial Infarction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Sinoatrial and Atrioventricular Nodal Block [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Bronchoconstriction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Cerebrovascular Accident [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Atrial fibrillation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) are : flushing ; chest discomfort ; shortness of breath ; headache ; throat , neck or jaw discomfort ; gastrointestinal discomfort ; and dizziness ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda .
gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions , with an incidence of at least 1 % , were reported with adenosine among 1 , 421 patients in clinical trials .
11 % of the adverse reactions occurred several hours after adenosine administration .
8 % of the adverse reactions began with adenosine infusion and persisted for up to 24 hours .
The most common ( incidence ≥ 10 % ) adverse reactions to adenosine are flushing , chest discomfort , shortness of breath , headache , throat , neck or jaw discomfort , gastrointestinal discomfort , and dizziness ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials ( Frequency ≥ 1 % ) Adverse Reactions Adenosine N = 1 , 421 Flushing 44 % Chest discomfort 40 % Dyspnea 28 % Headache 18 % Throat , neck or jaw discomfort 15 % Gastrointestinal discomfort 13 % Lightheadedness / dizziness 12 % Upper extremity discomfort 4 % ST segment depression 3 % First - degree AV block 3 % Second - degree AV block 3 % Paresthesia 2 % Hypotension 2 % Nervousness 2 % Arrhythmias 1 % Adverse reactions to adenosine of any severity reported in less than 1 % of patients include : Body as a Whole : back discomfort , lower extremity discomfort , weakness Cardiovascular System : myocardial infarction , ventricular arrhythmia , third - degree AV block , bradycardia , palpitation , sinus exit block , sinus pause , T - wave changes , hypertension ( systolic blood pressure > 200 mm Hg ) Respiratory System : cough Central Nervous System : drowsiness , emotional instability , tremors Genital / Urinary System : Vaginal pressure , urgency Special Senses : blurred vision , dry mouth , ear discomfort , metallic taste , nasal congestion , scotomas , tongue discomfort 6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported from marketing experience with adenosine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , are associated with concomitant diseases and multiple drug therapies and surgical procedures , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders : cardiac arrest , atrial fibrillation , cardiac failure , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , ventricular arrhythmia Gastrointestinal Disorders : nausea and vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : chest pain , injection site reaction , infusion site pain Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity Nervous System Disorders : cerebrovascular accident including intracranial hemorrhage , seizure activity including tonic - clonic ( grand mal ) seizures , loss of consciousness Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : bronchospasm , respiratory arrest , throat tightness 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Methylxanthines interfere with the activity of adenosine ( 7 . 1 , 10 ) • • Nucleoside transport inhibitors such as dipyridamole can increase the activity of adenosine ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on Adenosine • • The vasoactive effects of adenosine are inhibited by adenosine receptor antagonists , ( such as methylxanthines ( e . g . , caffeine , aminophylline , and theophylline ) .
The safety and efficacy of adenosine in the presence of these agents has not been systematically evaluated [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
• • The vasoactive effects of adenosine are potentiated by nucleoside transport inhibitors such as dipyridamole .
The safety and efficacy of adenosine in the presence of dipyridamole has not been systematically evaluated .
• • Whenever possible , drugs that might inhibit or augment the effects of adenosine should be withheld for at least five half - lives prior to the use of adenosine .
7 . 2 Effects of Adenosine on Other Drugs Adenosine injection has been given with other cardioactive drugs ( such as beta adrenergic blocking agents , cardiac glycosides , and calcium channel blockers ) without apparent adverse interactions , but its effectiveness with these agents has not been systematically evaluated .
Because of the potential for additive or synergistic depressant effects on the SA and AV nodes , however , adenosine should be used with caution in the presence of these agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with adenosine ; nor have studies been performed in pregnant women .
Because it is not known whether adenosine can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women , adenosine should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether adenosine is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from adenosine in nursing infants , the decision to interrupt nursing after administration of adenosine or not to administer adenosine , should take into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of adenosine in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies with adenosine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged younger than 65 years to determine whether they respond differently .
Other reported experience has not revealed clinically relevant differences of the response of elderly in comparison to younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE The half - life of adenosine is less than 10 seconds and adverse reactions of adenosine usually resolve quickly when the infusion is discontinued , although delayed or persistent reactions have been observed .
Methylxanthines , such as caffeine , aminophylline , and theophylline , are competitive adenosine receptor antagonists and theophylline has been used to terminate persistent adverse reactions .
In clinical trials , theophylline ( 50 to 125 mg slow intravenous injection ) was used to attenuate adenosine adverse reactions in approximately 2 % of patients .
Methylxanthine use is not recommended in patients who experience seizures in association with adenosine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Adenosine is an endogenous nucleoside and is chemically described as 6 - amino - 9 - beta - D - ribofuranosyl - 9 - H - purine .
Adenosine has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula for adenosine is C10H13N5O4 and its molecular weight is 267 . 24 .
Adenosine , USP is a white crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and practically insoluble in alcohol .
Solubility increases by warming and lowering the pH of the solution .
Each Adenosine Injection , USP vial contains a sterile , non - pyrogenic solution of adenosine 3 mg per mL and sodium chloride 9 mg per mL in water for injection , with pH between 4 . 5 and 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adenosine causes cardiac vasodilation which increases cardiac blood flow .
Adenosine is thought to exert its pharmacological effects through activation of purine receptors ( cell - surface A1 and A2 adenosine receptors ) .
Although the exact mechanism by which adenosine receptor activation relaxes vascular smooth muscle is not known , there is evidence to support both inhibition of the slow inward calcium current reducing calcium uptake , and activation of adenylate cyclase through A2 receptors in smooth muscle cells .
Adenosine may also lessen vascular tone by modulating sympathetic neurotransmission .
The intracellular uptake of adenosine is mediated by a specific transmembrane nucleoside transport system .
Once inside the cell , adenosine is rapidly phosphorylated by adenosine kinase to adenosine monophosphate , or deaminated by adenosine deaminase to inosine .
These intracellular metabolites of adenosine are not vasoactive .
Myocardial uptake of thallium - 201 is directly proportional to coronary blood flow .
Since adenosine significantly increases blood flow in normal coronary arteries with little or no increase in stenotic arteries , adenosine causes relatively less thallium - 201 uptake in vascular territories supplied by stenotic coronary arteries i . e . , a greater difference is seen after adenosine between areas served by normal and areas served by stenotic vessels than is seen prior to adenosine .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamic Effects Adenosine produces a direct negative chronotropic , dromotropic and inotropic effect on the heart , presumably due to A1 - receptor agonism , and produces peripheral vasodilation , presumably due to A2 - receptor agonism .
The net effect of adenosine in humans is typically a mild to moderate reduction in systolic , diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure associated with a reflex increase in heart rate .
Rarely , significant hypotension and tachycardia have been observed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Intravenously administered adenosine distributes from the circulation via cellular uptake , primarily by erythrocytes and vascular endothelial cells .
This process involves a specific transmembrane nucleoside carrier system that is reversible , nonconcentrative , and bidirectionally symmetrical .
Metabolism Intracellular adenosine is metabolized either via phosphorylation to adenosine monophosphate by adenosine kinase , or via deamination to inosine by adenosine deaminase in the cytosol .
Since adenosine kinase has a lower Km and Vmax than adenosine deaminase , deamination plays a significant role only when cytosolic adenosine saturates the phosphorylation pathway .
Inosine formed by deamination of adenosine can leave the cell intact or can be degraded to hypoxanthine , xanthine , and ultimately uric acid .
Adenosine monophosphate formed by phosphorylation of adenosine is incorporated into the high - energy phosphate pool .
Elimination While extracellular adenosine is primarily cleared from plasma by cellular uptake with a half - life of less than 10 seconds in whole blood , excessive amounts may be deaminated by an ecto - form of adenosine deaminase .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment As adenosine does not require renal function for its activation or inactivation , renal impairment would not be expected to alter its effectiveness or tolerability .
Hepatic Impairment As adenosine does not require hepatic function for its activation or inactivation , hepatic impairment would not be expected to alter its effectiveness or tolerability .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate adenosine ' s carcinogenic potential or potential effects on fertility .
Adenosine was negative for genotoxic potential in the Salmonella ( Ames Test ) and Mammalian Microsome Assay .
Adenosine , however , like other nucleosides at millimolar concentrations present for several doubling times of cells in culture , is known to produce a variety of chromosomal alterations .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In two crossover comparative studies involving 319 subjects who could exercise ( including 106 healthy volunteers and 213 patients with known or suspected coronary disease ) , adenosine and exercise thallium images were compared by blinded observers .
The images were concordant for the presence of perfusion defects in 85 . 5 % of cases by global analysis ( patient by patient ) and up to 93 % of cases based on vascular territories .
In the two studies , 193 patients also had recent coronary arteriography for comparison ( healthy volunteers were not catheterized ) .
The sensitivity for detecting angiographically significant disease ( ≥ 50 % reduction in the luminal diameter of at least one major vessel ) was 64 % for adenosine and 64 % for exercise testing .
The specificity was 54 % for adenosine and 65 % for exercise testing .
The 95 % confidence limits for adenosine sensitivity were 56 % to 78 % and for specificity were 37 % to 71 % .
Intracoronary Doppler flow catheter studies have demonstrated that a dose of intravenous adenosine of 0 . 14 mg / kg / min produces maximum coronary hyperemia ( relative to intracoronary papaverine ) in approximately 95 % of cases within two to three minutes of the onset of the infusion .
Coronary blood flow velocity returns to basal levels within one to two minutes of discontinuing the adenosine infusion .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Adenosine Injection , USP is supplied as 20 mL and 30 mL single - dose vials of sterile , nonpyrogenic solution in normal saline as follows : NDC Adenosine Injection , USP ( 3 mg per mL ) Package Factor 67457 - 856 - 20 60 mg per 20 mL Single - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton 67457 - 857 - 30 90 mg per 30 mL Single - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Do not refrigerate as crystallization may occur .
If crystallization has occurred , dissolve crystals by warming to room temperature .
The solution must be clear at the time of use .
Discard unused portion .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Advise patients that they may be at increased risk of fatal and nonfatal heart attacks , abnormal heart rhythms , cardiac arrest , heart block , significant increase or decrease in blood pressure , bronchoconstriction , hypersensitivity reactions , seizures , or cerebrovascular accidents with the use of adenosine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 - 5 . 9 ) ] .
• • Advise patients with COPD or asthma to discuss their respiratory history with their clinician before scheduling a myocardial perfusion imaging study with adenosine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Methylxanthines have the potential to impact the effects of adenosine .
Instruct patients to avoid consumption of any products containing methylxanthines , including caffeinated coffee , tea or other caffeinated beverages , caffeine - containing drug products , aminophylline , and theophylline prior to the myocardial perfusion imaging study .
Question patients about a history of seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
• Manufactured for : • Mylan Institutional LLC • Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . • • Manufactured by : • Mylan Laboratories Limited • Bangalore , India • JULY 2022 Package / Label Display Panel NDC 67457 - 856 - 20 Adenosine Injection , USP 60 mg per 20 mL ( 3 mg per mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only Mylan Rx only Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 67457 - 857 - 30 Adenosine Injection , USP 90 mg per 30 mL ( 3 mg per mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only Mylan Rx only Singe - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
