WARNING : OCULAR TOXICITY BLENREP caused changes in the corneal epithelium resulting in changes in vision , including severe vision loss and corneal ulcer , and symptoms , such as blurred vision and dry eyes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Conduct ophthalmic exams at baseline , prior to each dose , and promptly for worsening symptoms .
Withhold BLENREP until improvement and resume , or permanently discontinue , based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the risk of ocular toxicity , BLENREP is available only through a restricted program under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) called the BLENREP REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : OCULAR TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• • BLENREP caused changes in the corneal epithelium resulting in changes in vision , including severe vision loss and corneal ulcer , and symptoms , such as blurred vision and dry eyes .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Conduct ophthalmic exams at baseline , prior to each dose , and promptly for worsening symptoms .
Withhold BLENREP until improvement and resume , or permanently discontinue , based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) • • BLENREP is available only through a restricted program , called the BLENREP REMS .
( 5 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BLENREP is indicated for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least 4 prior therapies , including an anti - CD38 monoclonal antibody , a proteasome inhibitor , and an immunomodulatory agent .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on response rate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial ( s ) .
BLENREP is a B - cell maturation antigen ( BCMA ) - directed antibody and microtubule inhibitor conjugate indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least 4 prior therapies including an anti - CD38 monoclonal antibody , a proteasome inhibitor , and an immunomodulatory agent .
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on response rate .
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial ( s ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The recommended dosage is 2 . 5 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes once every 3 weeks .
( 2 . 2 ) • • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Important Safety Information Perform an ophthalmic exam prior to initiation of BLENREP and during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to use preservative - free lubricant eye drops and avoid contact lenses unless directed by an ophthalmologist [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of BLENREP is 2 . 5 mg / kg of actual body weight given as an intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes once every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions The recommended dose reduction for adverse reactions is : • • BLENREP 1 . 9 mg / kg intravenously once every 3 weeks .
Discontinue BLENREP in patients who are unable to tolerate a dose of 1 . 9 mg / kg ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) .
Corneal Adverse Reactions The recommended dosage modifications for corneal adverse reactions , based on both corneal examination findings and changes in best - corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) , are provided in Table 1 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Determine the recommended dosage modification of BLENREP based on the worst finding in the worst affected eye .
Worst finding should be based on either a corneal examination finding or a change in visual acuity per the Keratopathy and Visual Acuity ( KVA ) scale .
Table 1 .
Dosage Modifications for Corneal Adverse Reactions per the KVA ScaleKVA = Keratopathy and Visual Acuity , BCVA = best corrected visual acuity .
a Mild superficial keratopathy ( documented worsening from baseline ) , with or without symptoms .
b Changes in visual acuity due to treatment - related corneal findings .
c Moderate superficial keratopathy with or without patchy microcyst - like deposits , sub - epithelial haze ( peripheral ) , or a new peripheral stromal opacity .
d Severe superficial keratopathy with or without diffuse microcyst - like deposits , sub - epithelial haze ( central ) , or a new central stromal opacity .
e Corneal epithelial defect such as corneal ulcers .
Corneal Adverse Reaction Recommended Dosage Modifications Grade 1 Corneal examination finding ( s ) : Mild superficial keratopathya Change in BCVAb : Decline from baseline of 1 line on Snellen Visual Acuity Continue treatment at current dose .
Grade 2 Corneal examination finding ( s ) : Moderate superficial keratopathyc Change in BCVAb : Decline from baseline of 2 or 3 lines on Snellen Visual Acuity and not worse than 20 / 200 Withhold BLENREP until improvement in both corneal examination findings and change in BCVA to Grade 1 or better and resume at same dose .
Grade 3 Corneal examination finding ( s ) : Severe superficial keratopathyd Change in BCVAb : Decline from baseline by more than 3 lines on Snellen Visual Acuity and not worse than 20 / 200 Withhold BLENREP until improvement in both corneal examination findings and change in BCVA to Grade 1 or better and resume at reduced dose .
Grade 4 Corneal examination finding ( s ) : Corneal epithelial defecte Change in BCVAb : Snellen Visual Acuity worse than 20 / 200 Consider permanent discontinuation of BLENREP .
If continuing treatment , withhold BLENREP until improvement in both corneal examination findings and change in BCVA to Grade 1 or better and resume at reduced dose .
Other Adverse Reactions The recommended dosage modifications for other adverse reactions are provided in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Dosage Modifications for Other Adverse ReactionsAdverse Reaction Severity Recommended Dosage Modifications Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Platelet count 25 , 000 to less than 50 , 000 / mcL Consider withholding BLENREP and / or reducing the dose of BLENREP .
Platelet count less than 25 , 000 / mcL Withhold BLENREP until platelet count improves to Grade 3 or better .
Consider resuming at a reduced dose .
Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Grade 2 ( moderate ) or Grade 3 ( severe ) Interrupt infusion and provide supportive care .
Once symptoms resolve , resume at lower infusion rate ; reduce the infusion rate by at least 50 % .
Grade 4 ( life - threatening ) Permanently discontinue BLENREP and provide emergency care .
Other Adverse Reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] Grade 3 Withhold BLENREP until improvement to Grade 1 or better .
Consider resuming at a reduced dose .
Grade 4 Consider permanent discontinuation of BLENREP .
If continuing treatment , withhold BLENREP until improvement to Grade 1 or better and resume at reduced dose .
2 . 4 Preparation and Administration BLENREP is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 Calculate the dose ( mg ) , total volume ( mL ) of solution required , and the number of vials of BLENREP needed based on the patient ’ s actual body weight .
More than 1 vial may be needed for a full dose .
Do not round down for partial vials .
Reconstitution • • Remove the vial ( s ) of BLENREP from the refrigerator and allow to stand for approximately 10 minutes to reach room temperature ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F [ 20 ° C to 25 ° C ] ) .
• • Reconstitute each 100 - mg vial of BLENREP with 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , to obtain a final concentration of 50 mg / mL .
Gently swirl the vial to aid dissolution .
Do not shake .
• • If the reconstituted solution is not used immediately , store refrigerated at 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) or at room temperature ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F [ 20 ° C to 25 ° C ] ) for up to 4 hours in the original container .
Discard if not diluted within 4 hours .
Do not freeze .
• • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The reconstituted solution should be clear to opalescent , colorless to yellow to brown liquid .
Discard if extraneous particulate matter is observed .
Dilution • • Withdraw the calculated volume of BLENREP from the appropriate number of vials and dilute in a 250 - mL infusion bag of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , to a final concentration of 0 . 2 mg / mL to 2 mg / mL .
The infusion bags must be made of polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) or polyolefin ( PO ) .
• • Mix the diluted solution by gentle inversion .
Do not shake .
• • Discard any unused reconstituted solution of BLENREP left in the vial ( s ) .
• • If the diluted infusion solution is not used immediately , store refrigerated at 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) for up to 24 hours .
Do not freeze .
Once removed from refrigeration , administer the diluted infusion solution of BLENREP within 6 hours ( including infusion time ) .
• • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
The diluted infusion solution should be clear and colorless .
Discard if particulate matter is observed .
Administration • • If refrigerated , allow the diluted infusion solution to equilibrate to room temperature ( 68ºF to 77ºF [ 20ºC to 25ºC ] ) prior to administration .
Diluted infusion solution may be kept at room temperature for no more than 6 hours ( including infusion time ) .
• • Administer by intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes using an infusion set made of polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) or polyolefin ( PO ) .
• • Filtration of the diluted solution is not required ; however , if the diluted solution is filtered , use a polyethersulfone ( PES ) - based filter ( 0 . 2 micron ) .
Do not mix or administer BLENREP as an infusion with other products .
The product does not contain a preservative .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 100 mg of belantamab mafodotin - blmf as a white to yellow lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
For injection : 100 mg as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Thrombocytopenia : Perform complete blood counts at baseline and during treatment as clinically indicated .
Consider withholding and / or reducing the dose based on severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 3 ) • • Infusion - Related Reactions : Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions .
Interrupt and then reduce the rate or permanently discontinue based on the severity .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) • • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 5 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Ocular Toxicity Ocular adverse reactions occurred in 77 % of the 218 patients in the pooled safety population .
Ocular adverse reactions included keratopathy ( 76 % ) , changes in visual acuity ( 55 % ) , blurred vision ( 27 % ) , and dry eye ( 19 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Among patients with keratopathy ( n = 165 ) , 49 % had ocular symptoms , 65 % had clinically relevant visual acuity changes ( decline of 2 or more lines on Snellen Visual Acuity in any eye ) , and 34 % had both ocular symptoms and visual acuity changes .
Keratopathy Keratopathy was reported as Grade 1 in 7 % of patients , Grade 2 in 22 % , Grade 3 in 45 % , and Grade 4 in 0 . 5 % per the KVA scale .
Cases of corneal ulcer ( ulcerative and infective keratitis ) have been reported .
Most keratopathy events developed within the first 2 treatment cycles ( cumulative incidence of 65 % by Cycle 2 ) .
Of the patients with Grade 2 to 4 keratopathy ( n = 149 ) , 39 % of patients recovered to Grade 1 or lower after median follow - up of 6 . 2 months .
Of the 61 % who had ongoing keratopathy , 28 % were still on treatment , 9 % were in follow - up , and in 24 % the follow - up ended due to death , study withdrawal , or lost to follow up .
For patients in whom events resolved , the median time to resolution was 2 months ( range : 11 days to 8 . 3 months ) .
Visual Acuity Changes A clinically significant decrease in visual acuity of worse than 20 / 40 in the better - seeing eye was observed in 19 % of the 218 patients and of 20 / 200 or worse in the better - seeing eye in 1 . 4 % .
Of the patients with decreased visual acuity of worse than 20 / 40 , 88 % resolved and the median time to resolution was 22 days ( range : 7 days to 4 . 2 months ) .
Of the patients with decreased visual acuity of 20 / 200 or worse , all resolved and the median duration was 22 days ( range : 15 to 22 days ) .
Monitoring and Patient Instruction Conduct ophthalmic examinations ( visual acuity and slit lamp ) at baseline , prior to each dose , and promptly for worsening symptoms .
Perform baseline examinations within 3 weeks prior to the first dose .
Perform each follow - up examination at least 1 week after the previous dose and within 2 weeks prior to the next dose .
Withhold BLENREP until improvement and resume at same or reduced dose , or consider permanently discontinuing based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients to use preservative - free lubricant eye drops at least 4 times a day starting with the first infusion and continuing until end of treatment .
Avoid use of contact lenses unless directed by an ophthalmologist [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Changes in visual acuity may be associated with difficulty for driving and reading .
Advise patients to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
BLENREP is only available through a restricted program under a REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 BLENREP REMS BLENREP is available only through a restricted program under a REMS called the BLENREP REMS because of the risks of ocular toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Notable requirements of the BLENREP REMS include the following : • • Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training in the BLENREP REMS .
• • Prescribers must counsel patients receiving BLENREP about the risk of ocular toxicity and the need for ophthalmic examinations prior to each dose .
• • Patients must be enrolled in the BLENREP REMS and comply with monitoring .
• • Healthcare facilities must be certified with the program and verify that patients are authorized to receive BLENREP .
• • Wholesalers and distributors must only distribute BLENREP to certified healthcare facilities .
Further information is available , at www . BLENREPREMS . com and 1 - 855 - 209 - 9188 .
5 . 3 Thrombocytopenia Thrombocytopenia occurred in 69 % of 218 patients in the pooled safety population , including Grade 2 in 13 % , Grade 3 in 10 % , and Grade 4 in 17 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The median time to onset of the first thrombocytopenic event was 26 . 5 days .
Thrombocytopenia resulted in dose reduction , dose interruption , or discontinuation in 9 % , 2 . 8 % , and 0 . 5 % of patients , respectively .
Grade 3 to 4 bleeding events occurred in 6 % of patients , including Grade 4 in 1 patient .
Fatal adverse reactions included cerebral hemorrhage in 2 patients .
Perform complete blood cell counts at baseline and during treatment as clinically indicated .
Consider withholding and / or reducing the dose based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Infusion - Related Reactions Infusion - related reactions occurred in 18 % of 218 patients in the pooled safety population , including Grade 3 in 1 . 8 % [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients for infusion - related reactions .
For Grade 2 or 3 reactions , interrupt the infusion and provide supportive treatment .
Once symptoms resolve , resume at a lower infusion rate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Administer premedication for all subsequent infusions .
Discontinue BLENREP for life - threatening infusion - related reactions and provide appropriate emergency care .
5 . 5 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action , BLENREP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman because it contains a genotoxic compound ( the microtubule inhibitor , monomethyl auristatin F [ MMAF ] ) and it targets actively dividing cells .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with BLENREP and for 4 months after the last dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with BLENREP and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • • Ocular toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Thrombocytopenia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• • Infusion - related reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• • The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) are keratopathy ( corneal epithelium change on eye exam ) , decreased visual acuity , nausea , blurred vision , pyrexia , infusion - related reactions , and fatigue .
( 6 . 1 ) • • The most common grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities ( ≥ 5 % ) are platelets decreased , lymphocytes decreased , hemoglobin decreased , neutrophils decreased , creatinine increased , and gamma - glutamyl transferase increased .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The pooled safety population described in Warnings and Precautions reflects exposure to BLENREP at a dosage of 2 . 5 mg / kg or 3 . 4 mg / kg ( 1 . 4 times the recommended dose ) administered intravenously once every 3 weeks in 218 patients in DREAMM - 2 .
Of these patients , 194 received a liquid formulation ( not the approved dosage form ) rather than the lyophilized powder .
Among the 218 patients , 24 % were exposed for 6 months or longer .
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma The safety of BLENREP as a single agent was evaluated in DREAMM - 2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Patients received BLENREP at the recommended dosage of 2 . 5 mg / kg administered intravenously once every 3 weeks ( n = 95 ) .
Among these patients , 22 % were exposed for 6 months or longer .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 40 % of patients who received BLENREP .
Serious adverse reactions in > 3 % of patients included pneumonia ( 7 % ) , pyrexia ( 6 % ) , renal impairment ( 4 . 2 % ) , sepsis ( 4 . 2 % ) , hypercalcemia ( 4 . 2 % ) , and infusion - related reactions ( 3 . 2 % ) .
Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 2 % of patients , including sepsis ( 1 % ) , cardiac arrest ( 1 % ) , and lung infection ( 1 % ) .
Permanent discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 8 % of patients who received BLENREP ; keratopathy ( 2 . 1 % ) was the most frequent adverse reaction resulting in permanent discontinuation .
Dosage interruptions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 54 % of patients who received BLENREP .
Adverse reactions which required a dosage interruption in > 3 % of patients included keratopathy ( 47 % ) , blurred vision ( 5 % ) , dry eye ( 3 . 2 % ) , and pneumonia ( 3 . 2 % ) .
Dose reductions due to an adverse reaction occurred in 29 % of patients .
Adverse reactions which required a dose reduction in > 3 % of patients included keratopathy ( 23 % ) and thrombocytopenia ( 5 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 20 % ) were keratopathy , decreased visual acuity , nausea , blurred vision , pyrexia , infusion - related reactions , and fatigue .
The most common Grade 3 or 4 ( ≥ 5 % ) laboratory abnormalities were lymphocytes decreased , platelets decreased , hemoglobin decreased , neutrophils decreased , creatinine increased , and gamma - glutamyl transferase increased .
Table 3 summarizes the adverse reactions in DREAMM - 2 for patients who received the recommended dosage of 2 . 5 mg / kg once every 3 weeks .
Table 3 .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in Patients Who Received BLENREP in DREAMM - 2 a Keratopathy was based on slit lamp eye examination , characterized as corneal epithelium changes with or without symptoms .
b Visual acuity changes were determined upon eye examination .
c Blurred vision included diplopia , vision blurred , visual acuity reduced , and visual impairment .
d Dry eyes included dry eye , ocular discomfort , and eye pruritus .
e Fatigue included fatigue and asthenia .
f Infusion - related reactions included infusion - related reaction , pyrexia , chills , diarrhea , nausea , asthenia , hypertension , lethargy , tachycardia .
g Upper respiratory tract infection included upper respiratory tract infection , nasopharyngitis , rhinovirus infections , and sinusitis .
Adverse Reactions BLENREP N = 95 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 - 4 ( % ) Eye disorders Keratopathya 71 44 Decreased visual acuityb 53 28 Blurred visionc 22 4 Dry eyesd 14 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 24 0 Constipation 13 0 Diarrhea 13 1 General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 22 3 Fatiguee 20 2 Procedural complications Infusion - related reactionsf 21 3 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 12 0 Back pain 11 2 Metabolic and nutritional disorders Decreased appetite 12 0 Infections Upper respiratory tract infectiong 11 0 Clinically relevant adverse reactions in < 10 % of patients included : Eye Disorders : Photophobia , eye irritation , infective keratitis , ulcerative keratitis .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : Vomiting .
Infections : Pneumonia .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : Albuminuria .
Table 4 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in DREAMM - 2 .
Table 4 .
Laboratory Abnormalities ( ≥ 20 % ) Worsening from Baseline in Patients Who Received BLENREP in DREAMM - 2 Laboratory Abnormality BLENREP N = 95 All Grades ( % ) Grades 3 - 4 ( % ) Hematology Platelets decreased 62 21 Lymphocytes decreased 49 22 Hemoglobin decreased 32 18 Neutrophils decreased 28 9 Chemistry Aspartate aminotransferase increased 57 2 Albumin decreased 43 4 Glucose increased 38 3 Creatinine increased 28 5 Alkaline phosphatase increased 26 1 Gamma - glutamyl transferase increased 25 5 Creatinine phosphokinase increased 22 1 Sodium decreased 21 2 Potassium decreased 20 2 Clinically relevant adverse reactions from expanded access programs include : pneumonitis including fatal cases .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
The immunogenicity of BLENREP was evaluated using an electrochemiluminescence ( ECL ) - based immunoassay to test for anti - belantamab mafodotin antibodies .
In clinical studies of BLENREP , 2 / 274 patients ( < 1 % ) tested positive for anti - belantamab mafodotin antibodies after treatment .
One of the 2 patients tested positive for neutralizing anti - belantamab mafodotin antibodies following 4 weeks on therapy .
Due to the limited number of patients with antibodies against belantamab mafodotin - blmf , no conclusions can be drawn concerning a potential effect of immunogenicity on pharmacokinetics , efficacy , or safety .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action , BLENREP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman , because it contains a genotoxic compound ( the microtubule inhibitor , MMAF ) and it targets actively dividing cells [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Human immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) is known to cross the placenta ; therefore , belantamab mafodotin - blmf has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the developing fetus .
There are no available data on the use of BLENREP in pregnant women to evaluate for drug - associated risk .
No animal reproduction studies were conducted with BLENREP .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcome .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data : Animal reproductive or developmental toxicity studies were not conducted with belantamab mafodotin - blmf .
The cytotoxic component of BLENREP , MMAF , disrupts microtubule function , is genotoxic , and can be toxic to rapidly dividing cells , suggesting it has the potential to cause embryotoxicity and teratogenicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no data on the presence of belantamab mafodotin - blmf in human milk or the effects on the breastfed child or milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with BLENREP and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential BLENREP can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to initiating BLENREP .
Contraception Females : Advise women of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose .
Males : Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with BLENREP and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Based on findings in animal studies , BLENREP may impair fertility in females and males .
The effects were not reversible in male rats , but were reversible in female rats [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of BLENREP in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 218 patients who received BLENREP in DREAMM - 2 , 43 % were aged 65 to less than 75 years and 17 % were aged 75 years and older .
Clinical studies of BLENREP did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether the effectiveness differs compared with that of younger patients .
Keratopathy occurred in 80 % of patients aged less than 65 years and 73 % of patients aged 65 years and older .
Among the patients who received BLENREP at the 2 . 5 - mg / kg dose in DREAMM - 2 ( n = 95 ) , keratopathy occurred in 67 % of patients aged less than 65 years and 73 % of patients aged 65 years and older .
Clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of patients 75 years and older to determine whether they respond differently compared with younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( estimated glomerular filtration rate [ eGFR ] 30 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 as estimated by the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease [ MDRD ] equation ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended dosage has not been established in patients with severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) with eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 not on dialysis or requiring dialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ upper limit of normal [ ULN ] and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) > ULN or total bilirubin 1 to ≤ 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) .
The recommended dosage of BLENREP has not been established in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 × ULN and any AST ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Belantamab mafodotin - blmf is a B - cell maturation antigen ( BCMA ) - directed antibody and microtubule inhibitor conjugate .
Belantamab mafodotin - blmf is an antibody conjugate composed of 3 components : 1 ) afucosylated , humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody covalently linked to 2 ) the microtubule inhibitor MMAF via 3 ) a protease - resistant maleimidocaproyl linker .
The antibody is produced in a mammalian cell line ( Chinese Hamster Ovary ) using recombinant DNA technology and the microtubule inhibitor and linker are produced by chemical synthesis .
Approximately 4 molecules of mafodotin are attached to each antibody molecule .
The molecular weight of belantamab mafodotin - blmf is approximately 152 kDa .
Belantamab mafodotin - blmf has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] BLENREP ( belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to yellow , lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for reconstitution and further dilution prior to intravenous use .
BLENREP is supplied as 100 mg per vial and requires reconstitution with 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , to obtain a concentration of 50 mg / mL .
Each mL of reconstituted solution contains belantamab mafodotin - blmf ( 50 mg ) and the inactive ingredients , citric acid ( 0 . 42 mg ) , disodium edetate dihydrate ( 0 . 019 mg ) , polysorbate 80 ( 0 . 2 mg ) , trehalose dihydrate ( 75 . 6 mg ) , and trisodium citrate dihydrate ( 6 . 7 mg ) .
The pH of the reconstituted solution is 6 . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Belantamab mafodotin - blmf is an antibody - drug conjugate ( ADC ) .
The antibody component is an afucosylated IgG1 directed against BCMA , a protein expressed on normal B lymphocytes and multiple myeloma cells .
The small molecule component is MMAF , a microtubule inhibitor .
Upon binding to BCMA , belantamab mafodotin - blmf is internalized followed by release of MMAF via proteolytic cleavage .
The released MMAF intracellularly disrupts the microtubule network , leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
Belantamab mafodotin - blmf had antitumor activity in multiple myeloma cells and mediated killing of tumor cells through MMAF - induced apoptosis , as well as by tumor cell lysis through antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) and antibody - dependent cellular phagocytosis ( ADCP ) .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Exposure - Response Relationships Higher belantamab mafodotin - blmf exposure was associated with higher incidence of some adverse reactions ( e . g . , Grade ≥ 2 corneal toxicity ) .
No exposure - response relationship for efficacy was observed at doses of 2 . 5 mg / kg or 3 . 4 mg / kg ( 1 . 4 times the recommended dose ) after accounting for the effect of baseline disease - related characteristics , such as soluble BCMA , IgG , and ß2 - microglobulin .
Cardiac Electrophysiology Belantamab mafodotin - blmf had no large QTc prolongation ( > 10 ms ) at the recommended dosage of 2 . 5 mg / kg once every 3 weeks .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Belantamab mafodotin - blmf exhibited dose - proportional pharmacokinetics , with a gradual decrease in clearance over time ; the time to reach steady state was ~ 70 days .
After a planned infusion duration of 0 . 5 hours , maximum belantamab mafodotin - blmf plasma concentrations occurred at or shortly after the end of the infusion .
Accumulation of belantamab mafodotin - blmf was ~ 70 % with a dosing regimen of every 3 weeks .
The pharmacokinetics of belantamab mafodotin - blmf after a dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg in Cycle 1 are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Belantamab Mafodotin - blmf Pharmacokinetics at Cycle 1 in Patients Who Received a Dose of 2 . 5 mg / kgAUC = Area under curve over the dosing interval ; Cmax = Maximum observed plasma concentration ; tmax = Time of Cmax ; Ctrough = Observed plasma concentration prior to next dose .
Data presented as geometric mean ( % CV ) , except tmax , which is presented as median ( minimum , maximum ) .
Parameter Belantamab Mafodotin - blmf n Value AUC ( mcg . h / mL ) 30 4 , 666 ( 46 ) Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 32 42 ( 26 ) tmax ( h ) 32 0 . 78 ( 0 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) Ctrough ( mcg / mL ) 69 2 . 4 ( 52 ) Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of belantamab mafodotin - blmf was 11 L ( 15 % ) .
Elimination Total plasma clearance ( mean [ CV % ] ) of belantamab mafodotin - blmf was approximately 22 % lower at steady state ( 0 . 7 L / day [ 50 % ] ) than after the first dose ( 0 . 9 L / day [ 42 % ] ) .
The terminal phase half - life of belantamab mafodotin - blmf was 12 days after the first dose and 14 days at steady state .
Metabolism : The monoclonal antibody portion of belantamab mafodotin - blmf is expected to be metabolized into small peptides and individual amino acids by catabolic pathways .
In vitro , cys - mcMMAF is mainly hydrolyzed and dehydrated to a cyclized isomeric form of cys - mcMMAF .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of belantamab mafodotin - blmf were observed based on age ( 34 to 89 years ) , sex , race ( White vs . Black ) , body weight ( 42 to 130 kg ) , mild or moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) , or mild hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN or total bilirubin 1 to ≤ 1 . 5 x ULN and any AST ) .
The effects of severe renal impairment ( eGFR 15 to 29 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or ESRD with eGFR < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 not on dialysis or requiring dialysis , or moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin > 1 . 5 x ULN and any AST ) on the pharmacokinetics of belantamab mafodotin - blmf are unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Studies : Transporter Systems : Cys ‑ mcMMAF is a substrate of organic anion transporting polypeptide ( OATP ) 1B1 and OATP1B3 , multidrug resistance - associated protein ( MRP ) 1 , MRP2 , MRP3 , bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) , and a possible substrate of P - glycoprotein ( P ‑ gp ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with belantamab mafodotin - blmf .
Belantamab mafodotin - blmf was genotoxic in an in vitro micronucleus assay in human lymphocytes through an aneugenic mechanism .
These results are consistent with the pharmacological effect of MMAF binding to tubulin causing microtubule depolymerization resulting in spindle disorganization during cell division .
Cys - mcMMAF was not mutagenic in the bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , the L5178Y mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay , or the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Fertility studies have not been conducted with belantamab mafodotin - blmf .
Results of repeat - dose toxicity studies with intravenous administration of belantamab mafodotin - blmf in rats indicate the potential for impaired male and female reproductive function and fertility .
In rats , weekly dosing for 3 weeks at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg ( approximately 4 times the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 2 . 5 mg / kg based on the AUC of belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) resulted in degeneration and atrophy of seminiferous tubules in the testes and luteinized nonovulatory follicles in the ovaries .
Findings in females were reversible ; findings in the testes were not reversible at the end of the 12 - week recovery period with weekly dosing or when given every 3 weeks for 13 weeks at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg .
In male monkeys , the highest dose tested of 10 mg / kg ( approximately 4 times the exposure at the MRHD based on AUC of belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) given weekly for 13 weeks resulted in seminiferous tubules degeneration in the testes that was fully reversed following the 12 - week recovery period .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Increased mitoses of corneal epithelial cells with bilateral single - cell necrosis were observed following intravenous administration of belantamab mafodotin - blmf in rats and rabbits .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma The efficacy of BLENREP was evaluated in DREAMM - 2 , an open - label , multicenter study ( NCT 03525678 ) .
Eligible patients had relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma , had previously received 3 or more prior therapies , including an anti - CD38 monoclonal antibody , and were refractory to an immunomodulatory agent and a proteasome inhibitor .
Patients had measurable disease by International Myeloma Working Group ( IMWG ) criteria .
Patients with corneal epithelial disease , except mild punctate keratopathy , at baseline were excluded from the study .
Patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( eGFR 30 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) at baseline were also eligible for the study .
Patients received either BLENREP 2 . 5 mg / kg or 3 . 4 mg / kg intravenously once every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity .
The major efficacy outcome measure was overall response rate as evaluated by an Independent Review Committee ( IRC ) based on the IMWG Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma .
Only the results of the recommended dosage of 2 . 5 mg / kg are described below .
A total of 97 patients received BLENREP at a dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg administered intravenously once every 3 weeks .
The median age was 65 years ( range : 39 to 85 years ) , 53 % were male , 74 % were White , and 16 % were Black .
Most patients ( 77 % ) were International Staging System ( ISS ) Stage II or III , 75 % had received prior autologous stem cell transplantation ( ASCT ) , and 16 % had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status of 2 .
High - risk cytogenetic factors ( presence of t [ 4 ; 14 ] , t [ 14 ; 16 ] and 17p13del ) were present in 27 % of patients .
The median number of prior lines of therapy was 7 ( range : 3 to 21 ) .
Efficacy results are summarized in Table 6 .
The median time to first response was 1 . 4 months ( 95 % CI : 1 . 0 , 1 . 6 ) .
Seventy - three percent of responders had a duration of response ≥ 6 months .
Table 6 .
Efficacy in DREAMM - 2 a NR = Not reached .
BLENREP N = 97 Overall response rate ( ORR ) , n ( % ) ( 97 . 5 % CI ) 30 ( 31 % ) ( 21 % , 43 % ) Stringent complete response ( sCR ) , n ( % ) 2 ( 2 % ) Complete response ( CR ) , n ( % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Very good partial response ( VGPR ) , n ( % ) 15 ( 15 % ) Partial response ( PR ) , n ( % ) 12 ( 12 % ) Median duration of response in monthsa ( range ) NR [ NR to NR ] 15 REFERENCES • 1 .
“ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING BLENREP ( belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) for injection is a sterile , preservative - free , white to yellow lyophilized powder for reconstitution and further dilution prior to intravenous use .
BLENREP is supplied in a carton containing one 100 - mg single - dose vial with a rubber stopper ( not made with natural rubber latex ) and aluminum overseal with removable cap ( NDC 0173 - 0896 - 01 ) .
Store vials refrigerated at 36ºF to 46ºF ( 2ºC to 8ºC ) .
BLENREP is a hazardous drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Ocular Toxicity • • Advise patients that ocular toxicity may occur during treatment with BLENREP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to administer preservative - free lubricant eye drops as recommended during treatment and to avoid wearing contact lenses during treatment unless directed by a healthcare professional [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Advise patients to use caution when driving or operating machinery as BLENREP may adversely affect their vision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
BLENREP REMS BLENREP is available only through a restricted program called BLENREP REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Inform the patient of the following notable requirements : • • Patients must complete the enrollment form with their provider .
• • Patients must comply with ongoing monitoring for eye exams [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Thrombocytopenia • • Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Infusion - Related Reactions • • Advise patients to immediately report any signs and symptoms of infusion - related reactions to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • • Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Advise women of reproductive potential to use highly effective contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• • Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with BLENREP and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation • • Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with BLENREP and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility • • Advise males and females of reproductive potential that BLENREP may impair fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Pneumonitis • • Advise patients to immediately report any new or worsening unexplained pulmonary signs or symptoms to their healthcare provider [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
Manufactured by : GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Ltd .
England Brentford , Middlesex , UK TW8 9 GS U . S . License No . 2148 including by use of Potelligent technology licensed from BioWa , Inc .
For : GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
BRP : 2 PI • MEDICATION GUIDE • BLENREP ( BLEN - REP ) • ( belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) • for injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about BLENREP ?
Before you receive BLENREP , you must read and agree to all of the instructions in the BLENREP Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) .
Before prescribing BLENREP , your healthcare provider will explain the BLENREP REMS to you and have you sign the Patient Enrollment Form .
BLENREP can cause serious side effects , including : Eye problems .
Eye problems are common with BLENREP .
BLENREP can cause changes to the surface of your eye that can lead to dry eyes , blurred vision , worsening vision , severe vision loss , and corneal ulcer .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any vision changes or eye problems during treatment with BLENREP .
• • Your healthcare provider will send you to an eye specialist to check your eyes before you start treatment with BLENREP , prior to each dose of BLENREP , and for worsening symptoms of eye problems .
• • Even if your vision seems fine , it is important that you get your eyes checked during treatment with BLENREP because some changes can happen without symptoms and may only be seen on an eye exam .
• • You should use preservative - free lubricant eye drops at least 4 times per day during treatment with BLENREP as instructed by your healthcare provider .
• • You should use caution when driving or operating machinery as BLENREP may affect your vision .
• • Avoid wearing contact lenses during treatment with BLENREP unless directed by your eye specialist .
See “ What are the possible side effects of BLENREP ? ”
for more information about serious side effects .
What is BLENREP ?
BLENREP is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with multiple myeloma who : • • have received at least 4 prior medicines to treat multiple myeloma , and • • their cancer has come back or did not respond to prior treatment .
It is not known if BLENREP is safe and effective in children .
Before receiving BLENREP , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have a history of vision or eye problems .
• • have bleeding problems or a history of bleeding problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
BLENREP can harm your unborn baby .
Females who are able to become pregnant : • • Your healthcare provider may do a pregnancy test before you start treatment with BLENREP .
• • You should use effective birth control during treatment with BLENREP and for 4 months after the last dose .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods you can use during this time .
• • Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during treatment with BLENREP .
• Males with female partners who are able to become pregnant should use effective birth control during treatment with BLENREP and for 6 months after the last dose .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if BLENREP passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with BLENREP and for 3 months after the last dose .
• • BLENREP may affect fertility in males and females .
Talk to your healthcare provider if this is a concern for you .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive BLENREP ?
• • BLENREP will be given to you by your healthcare provider by intravenous infusion into your vein over approximately 30 minutes .
• • BLENREP is usually given every 3 weeks .
• • Your healthcare provider will decide how many treatments you need .
• • Your healthcare provider may decrease your dose , temporarily stop or completely stop treatment with BLENREP if you have serious side effects .
• • If you miss any appointments , call your healthcare provider as soon as possible to reschedule your appointment .
What are the possible side effects of BLENREP ?
BLENREP can cause serious side effects , including : • • See Eye Problems in “ What is the most important information I should know about BLENREP ? ”
• • Decrease in platelets ( thrombocytopenia ) is common with BLENREP and can also be serious .
Platelets are a type of blood cell that help your blood to clot .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood cell counts before you start treatment with BLENREP and during treatment .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have bleeding or bruising during treatment with BLENREP .
• • Infusion - related reactions are common with BLENREP and can also be serious .
Tell your healthcare provider or nurse right away if you get any of the following signs or symptoms of an infusion - related reaction while receiving BLENREP : • • chills or shaking • • redness of your face ( flushing ) • • itching or rash • • shortness of breath , cough , or wheezing • • swelling of your lips , tongue , throat , or face • • dizziness • • feel like passing out • • tiredness • • fever • • feel like your heart is racing ( palpitations ) • • The most common side effects of BLENREP include vision or eye changes such as findings on eye exam ( keratopathy ) , decreased vision or blurred vision , nausea , low blood cell counts , fever , infusion - related reactions , tiredness , and changes in kidney or liver function blood tests .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get new or worsening unexplained signs or symptoms of lung problems , including shortness of breath , chest pain , and cough .
These are not all the possible side effects of BLENREP .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of BLENREP .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about BLENREP that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in BLENREP ?
Active Ingredient : belantamab mafodotin - blmf Inactive Ingredients : citric acid , disodium edetate dihydrate , polysorbate 80 , trehalose dihydrate , trisodium citrate dihydrate .
• Manufactured by : • GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Ltd . , England • Brentford , Middlesex , UK TW8 9 GS • U . S . License No . 2148 • including by use of Potelligent technology licensed from BioWa , Inc .
For : GlaxoSmithKline , Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2022 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
BRP : 2 MG For more information , call GlaxoSmithKline ( GSK ) at 1 - 888 - 825 - 5249 .
Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 2 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0173 - 0896 - 01 BLENREP ( belantamab mafodotin - blmf ) for injection 100 mg / vial CAUTION : Hazardous Agent .
For intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution .
Single - dose vial .
Discard unused portion .
No preservative .
No U . S . standard of potency .
Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
© 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Rev . 8 / 20 62000000041460 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
