Sterile DESCRIPTION HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % is a topical anti - inflammatory agent for ophthalmic use .
Chemical Name : 11β - hydroxy - 6α - methylpregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione Structural Formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains : Active : Medrysone 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 004 % .
Inactives : edetate disodium ; hypromellose ; polyvinyl alcohol 1 . 4 % ; potassium chloride ; purified water ; sodium chloride ; sodium phosphate , dibasic ; sodium phosphate , monobasic ; and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH ( 6 . 2 - 7 . 5 ) .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) is a synthetic corticosteroid with topical anti - inflammatory activity .
Glucocorticoids inhibit the edema , fibrin deposition , capillary dilation and phagocytic migration of the acute inflammatory response as well as capillary proliferation , deposition of collagen , and scar formation .
HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) has less anti - inflammatory potency than 0 . 1 % dexamethasone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) is indicated for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis , vernal conjunctivitis , episcleritis , and epinephrine sensitivity .
CONTRAINDICATIONS HMS ® suspension is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , and varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
HMS ® suspension is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) is not recommended for use in iritis and uveitis as its therapeutic effectiveness has not been demonstrated in these conditions .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may also suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Corticosteroids are not effective in mustard gas keratitis and Sjögren ' s keratoconjunctivitis .
PRECAUTIONS General : The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 milliliters of HMS ® suspension should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored ( see WARNINGS ) .
Information for Patients : If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the potential of these effects .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects .
Pregnancy Category C . Medrysone has been shown to be embryocidal in rabbits when given in doses 10 and 30 times the human ocular dose .
Two drops of medrysone were applied to both eyes of pregnant rabbits 4 times per day on day 6 through 18 of gestation .
A significant increase in early resorptions was observed in the treated rabbits .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of medrysone in pregnant women .
Medrysone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical ophthalmic administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from medrysone , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 3 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions include , in decreasing order of frequency , elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage , posterior subcapsular cataract formation , and delayed wound healing .
Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon , there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical steroids .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis and perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , mydriasis , conjunctival hyperemia , loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids .
The development of secondary ocular infection ( bacterial , fungal and viral ) has occurred .
Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term applications of steroids .
The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used ( see WARNINGS ) .
Transient burning and stinging upon instillation and other minor symptoms of ocular irritation have been reported with the use of HMS ® suspension .
Other adverse events reported with the use of HMS ® suspension include : allergic reactions , foreign body sensation , and visual disturbance ( blurry vision ) .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage will not ordinarily cause acute problems .
If accidentally ingested , drink fluids to dilute .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Shake well before using .
Instill one drop into the conjunctival sac up to every four hours .
HOW SUPPLIED HMS ® ( medrysone ophthalmic suspension ) 1 % is supplied sterile in opaque white LDPE plastic bottles with droppers with white high impact polystyrene ( HIPS ) caps as follows : 5 mL in 10 mL bottle - NDC 11980 - 074 - 05 10 mL in 15 mL bottle - NDC 11980 - 074 - 10 Note : Store at temperatures up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Rx Only Revised August 2004 © 2004 Allergan , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 , U . S . A . 6089 X ® Marks owned by Allergan , Inc . 71741US11P
