WARNING Ketorolac tromethamine , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , is indicated for the short - term ( up to 5 days ) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level .
It is NOT indicated for minor or chronic painful conditions .
Ketorolac tromethamine is a potent NSAID analgesic , and its administration carries many risks .
The resulting NSAID - related adverse events can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac tromethamine is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately .
Increasing the dose of ketorolac tromethamine beyond the label recommendations will not provide better efficacy but will result in increasing the risk of developing serious adverse events .
Gastrointestinal Effects • Ketorolac tromethamine can cause peptic ulcers , gastrointestinal bleeding and / or perforation .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation , and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Renal Effects • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment and in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see WARNINGS ) .
Risk of Bleeding • Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , patients with hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery and is CONTRAINDICATED intra - operatively when hemostasis is critical because of the increased risk of bleeding .
Hypersensitivity • Hypersensitivity reactions , ranging from bronchospasm to anaphylactic shock , have occurred and appropriate counteractive measures must be available when administering the first dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ( seeCONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine or allergic manifestations to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Intrathecal or Epidural Administration • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED for intrathecal or epidural administration due to its alcohol content .
Labor , Delivery and Nursing • The use of ketorolac tromethamine in labor and delivery is CONTRAINDICATED because it may adversely affect fetal circulation and the uterus .
• The use of ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in nursing mothers because of the potential adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates .
Concomitant Use With NSAIDs • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients currently receiving ASA or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risk of inducing serious NSAID - related side effects .
Dosage and Administration Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets • Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are indicated only as continuation therapy to Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection , and the combined duration of use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed five ( 5 ) days because of the increased risk of serious adverse events .
• The recommended total daily dose of ketorolac tromethamine tablets ( maximum 40 mg ) is significantly lower than for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ( maximum 120 mg ) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Special Populations • Dosage should be adjusted for patients 65 years or older , for patients under 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) and for patients with moderately elevated serum creatinine ( see WARNINGS ) .
Doses of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection are not to exceed 60 mg ( total dose per day ) in these patients .
DESCRIPTION Ketorolac tromethamine is a member of the pyrrolo - pyrrole group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
The chemical name for ketorolac tromethamine is ( ± ) - 5 - benzoyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 H - pyrrolizine - 1 - carboxylic acid , compound with 2 - amino - 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - propanediol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S and [ + ] R ketorolac tromethamine .
Ketorolac tromethamine may exist in three crystal forms .
All forms are equally soluble in water .
Ketorolac tromethamine has a pKa of 3 . 5 and an n - octanol / water partition coefficient of 0 . 26 .
The molecular weight of ketorolac tromethamine is 376 . 41 .
Ketorolac tromethamine is available for intravenous ( IV ) or intramuscular ( IM ) administration as : 15 mg in 1 mL ( 1 . 5 % ) and 30 mg in 1 mL ( 3 % ) in sterile solution ; 60 mg in 2 mL ( 3 % ) of ketorolac tromethamine in sterile solution is available for IM administration only .
The solutions contain 10 % ( w / v ) alcohol , USP , and 6 . 68 mg , 4 . 35 mg and 8 . 70 mg , respectively , of sodium chloride in sterile water .
The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid , and the solutions are packaged with nitrogen .
The sterile solutions are clear and slightly yellow in color .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Ketorolac tromethamine is a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) .
Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits synthesis of prostaglandins and may be considered a peripherally acting analgesic .
The biological activity of ketorolac tromethamine is associated with the S - form .
Ketorolac tromethamine possesses no sedative or anxiolytic properties .
Pain relief was statistically different after ketorolac tromethamine dosing from that of placebo at 1 / 2 hour ( the first time point at which it was measured ) following the largest recommended doses of ketorolac tromethamine and by 1 hour following the smallest recommended doses .
The peak analgesic effect occurred within 2 to 3 hours and was not statistically significantly different over the recommended dosage range of ketorolac tromethamine .
The greatest difference between large and small doses of ketorolac tromethamine by either route was in the duration of analgesia .
Pharmacokinetics Ketorolac tromethamine is a racemic mixture of [ - ] S - and [ + ] R - enantiomeric forms , with the S - form having analgesic activity .
Comparison of IV , IM and Oral Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine , following IV , IM and oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine are compared in Table 1 .
The extent of bioavailability following administration of the ORAL and IM forms of ketorolac tromethamine was equal to that following an IV bolus .
Linear Kinetics Following administration of single ORAL , IM or IV doses of ketorolac tromethamine in the recommended dosage ranges , the clearance of the racemate does not change .
This implies that the pharmacokinetics of ketorolac tromethamine in humans , following single or multiple IM , IV or recommended oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine , are linear .
At the higher recommended doses , there is a proportional increase in the concentrations of free and bound racemate .
Binding and Distribution The ketorolac tromethamine racemate has been shown to be highly protein bound ( 99 % ) .
Nevertheless , even plasma concentrations as high as 10 mcg / mL will only occupy approximately 5 % of the albumin binding sites .
Thus , the unbound fraction for each enantiomer will be constant over the therapeutic range .
A decrease in serum albumin , however , will result in increased free drug concentrations .
The mean apparent volume ( Vß ) of ketorolac tromethamine following complete distribution was approximately 13 liters .
This parameter was determined from single - dose data .
Metabolism Ketorolac tromethamine is largely metabolized in the liver .
The metabolic products are hydroxylated and conjugated forms of the parent drug .
The products of metabolism , and some unchanged drug , are excreted in the urine .
Clearance and Excretion A single - dose study with 10 mg ketorolac tromethamine ( n = 9 ) demonstrated that the S - enantiomer is cleared approximately two times faster than the R - enantiomer and that the clearance was independent of the route of administration .
This means that the ratio of S / R plasma concentrations decreases with time after each dose .
There is little or no inversion of the R - to S - form in humans .
The clearance of the racemate in normal subjects , elderly individuals and in hepatically and renally impaired patients is outlined in Table 2 .
The half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine S - enantiomer was approximately 2 . 5 hours ( SD ± 0 . 4 ) compared with 5 hours ( SD ± 1 . 7 ) for the R - enantiomer .
In other studies , the half - life for the racemate has been reported to lie within the range of 5 to 6 hours .
Accumulation Ketorolac tromethamine administered as an IV bolus every 6 hours for 5 days to healthy subjects ( n = 13 ) , showed no significant difference in Cmax on Day 1 and Day 5 .
Trough levels averaged 0 . 29 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 13 ) on Day 1 and 0 . 55 mcg / mL ( SD ± 0 . 23 ) on Day 6 .
Steady state was approached after the fourth dose .
Accumulation of ketorolac tromethamine has not been studied in special populations ( elderly patients , renal failure patients or hepatic disease patients ) .
Kinetics in Special Populations Elderly Patients : Based on single - dose data only , the half - life of the ketorolac tromethamine racemate increased from 5 to 7 hours in the elderly ( 65 to 78 years ) compared with young healthy volunteers ( 24 to 35 years ) ( see Table 2 ) .
There was little difference in the Cmax for the two groups ( elderly , 2 . 52 mcg / mL ± 0 . 77 ; young , 2 . 99 mcg / mL ± 1 . 03 ) ( see PRECAUTIONS -- Use In The Elderly ) .
Renally Impaired Patients : Based on single - dose data only , the mean half - life of ketorolac tromethamine in renally impaired patients is between 6 and 19 hours and is dependent on the extent of the impairment .
There is poor correlation between creatinine clearance and total ketorolac tromethamine clearance in the elderly and populations with renal impairment ( r = 0 . 5 ) .
In patients with renal disease , the AUC ∞ of each enantiomer increased by approximately 100 % compared with healthy volunteers .
The volume of distribution doubles for the S - enantiomer and increases by 1 / 5 th for the R - enantiomer .
The increase in volume of distribution of ketorolac tromethamine implies an increase in unbound fraction .
The AUC ∞ - ratio of the ketorolac tromethamine enantiomers in healthy subjects and patients remained similar , indicating there was no selective excretion of either enantiomer in patients compared to healthy subjects ( seeWARNINGS - Renal Effects ) .
Hepatic Effects : There was no significant difference in estimates of half - life , AUC ∞ and Cmax in 7 patients with liver disease compared to healthy volunteers ( seePRECAUTIONS - Hepatic Effects ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] % Dose metabolized = < 50 % Dose excreted in feces = 6 % Dose excreted in urine = 91 % Plasma protein binding = 99 * Derived from PO pharmacokinetic studies in 77 normal fasted volunteers † Derived from IM pharmacokinetic studies in 54 normal volunteers ‡ Derived from IV pharmacokinetic studies in 24 normal volunteers § Mean value was simulated from observed plasma concentration data and standard deviation was simulated from percent coefficient of variation for observed Cmax and Tmax data | | Not applicable because 60 mg is only recommended as a single dose 1 Time - to - peak plasma concentration 2 Peak plasma concentration 3 Trough plasma concentration 4 Average plasma concentration 5 Volume of distribution [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Estimated from 30 mg single IM doses of ketorolac tromethamine 2 Estimated from 10 mg single Oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine 3 Liters / Hour / Kilogram IV Administration : In normal subjects ( n = 37 ) , the total clearance of 30 mg & IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine was 0 . 030 ( 0 . 017 - 0 . 051 ) L / h / kg .
The Terminal Half - Life was 5 . 6 ( 4 - 7 . 9 ) hours .
Clinical Studies The analgesic efficacy of intramuscularly , intravenously and orally administered ketorolac tromethamine was investigated in two postoperative pain models : general surgery ( orthopedic , gynecologic and abdominal ) and oral surgery ( removal of impacted third molars ) .
The studies were double - blind , single - and multiple - dose , parallel trial designs in patients with moderate to severe pain at baseline .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection was compared as follows : IM to meperidine or morphine administered intramuscularly and IV to morphine administered either directly IV or through a PCA ( Patient - Controlled Analgesia ) pump .
Short - Term Use ( Up to 5 Days ) Studies : In the comparisons of intramuscular administration during the first hour , the onset of analgesic action was similar for ketorolac tromethamine and the narcotics , but the duration of analgesia was longer with ketorolac tromethamine than with the opioid comparators meperidine or morphine .
Ina multi - dose , postoperative ( general surgery ) double - blind trial of ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IM versus morphine 6 and 12 mg IM , each drug given on an “ as needed ” basis for up to 5 days , the overall analgesic effect of ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IM was between that of morphine 6 and 12 mg .
The majority of patients treated with either ketorolac tromethamine or morphine were dosed for up to 3 days ; a small percentage of patients received 5 days of dosing .
In clinical settings where perioperative morphine was allowed , ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg IV , given once or twice as needed , provided analgesia comparable to morphine 4 mg IV once or twice as needed .
There was relatively limited experience with 5 consecutive days of ketorolac tromethamine IV use in controlled clinical trials , as most patients were given the drug for 3 days or less .
The adverse events seen with IV - administered ketorolac tromethamine were similar to those observed with IM - administered ketorolac tromethamine , as would be expected based on the similar pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence ( AUC , clearance , plasma half - life ) of IV and IM routes of ketorolac tromethamine administration .
Clinical Studies With Concomitant Use of Opioids : Clinical studies in postoperative pain management have demonstrated that Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection , when used in combination with opioids , significantly reduced opioid consumption .
This combination may be useful in the subpopulation of patients especially prone to opioid - related complications .
Ketorolac tromethamine and narcotics should not be administered in the same syringe .
In a postoperative study , where all patients received morphine by a PCA device , patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine IV as fixed intermittent boluses ( e . g . , 30 mg initial dose followed by 15 mg q3h ) , required significantly less morphine ( 26 % ) than the placebo group .
Analgesia was significantly superior , at various postdosing pain assessment times , in the patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine IV plus PCA morphine as compared to patients receiving PCA - administered morphine alone .
Postmarketing Surveillance Study : A large postmarketing observational , non - randomized study , involving approximately 10 , 000 patients receiving ketorolac tromethamine , demonstrated that the risk of clinically serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding was dose - dependent ( see Tables 3 A and 3 B ) .
This was particularly true in elderly patients who received an average daily dose greater than 60 mg / day of ketorolac tromethamine ( Table 3 A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketorolac tromethamine is indicated for the short - term ( ≤ 5 days ) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Therapy should always be initiated with Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection and ketorolac tromethamine tablets are to be used only as continuation treatment , if necessary .
Combined use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible , but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection has been used concomitantly with morphine and meperidine and has shown an opioid - sparing effect .
For breakthrough pain , it is recommended to supplement the lower end of the Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection dosage range with low doses of narcotics prn , unless otherwise contraindicated .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection and narcotics should not be administered in the same syringe ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ( see also Boxed WARNING ) • Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with active peptic ulcer disease , in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with advanced renal impairment or in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion ( see WARNINGS for correction of volume depletion ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine musculature , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage .
• The use of ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in nursing mothers because of the potential adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine , or allergic manifestations to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery and is CONTRAINDICATED intra - operatively when hemostasis is critical because of the increased risk of bleeding .
• Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is , therefore , CONTRAINDICATED in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding , hemorrhagic diathesis , incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients currently receiving ASA or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risks of inducing serious NSAID - related adverse events .
• Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection is CONTRAINDICATED for neuraxial ( epidural or intrathecal ) administration due to its alcohol content .
• The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is CONTRAINDICATED .
WARNINGS The combined use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injecton and ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not to exceed 5 days .
The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are : Gastrointestinal Ulcerations , Bleeding and Perforation : Ketorolac tromethamine is CONTRAINDICATED in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and / or GI bleeding .
Serious gastrointestinal toxicity , such as bleeding , ulceration and perforation , can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine .
Studies to date with NSAIDs have not identified any subset of patients not at risk of developing peptic ulceration and bleeding .
Elderly or debilitated patients seem to tolerate ulceration or bleeding less well than other individuals , and most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in this population .
Postmarketing experience with parenterally administered ketorolac tromethamine suggests that there may be a greater risk of gastrointestinal ulcerations , bleeding and perforation in the elderly .
The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with , ketorolac tromethamine .
In a non - randomized , in - hospital postmarketing surveillance study comparing parenteral ketorolac tromethamine to parenteral opioids , higher rates of clinically serious GI bleeding were seen in patients < 65 years of age who received an average total daily dose of more than 90 mg of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection per day ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Postmarketing Surveillance Study ) .
The same study showed that elderly ( ≥ 65 years of age ) and debilitated patients are more susceptible to gastrointestinal complications .
A history of peptic ulcer disease was revealed as another risk factor that increases the possibility of developing serious gastrointestinal complications during ketorolac tromethamine therapy ( see Tables 3 A and 3 B ) .
Impaired Renal Function : Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function or a history of kidney disease because it is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis .
Renal toxicity with ketorolac tromethamine has been seen in patients with conditions leading to a reduction in blood volume and / or renal blood flow where renal prostaglandins have a supportive role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients administration of ketorolac tromethamine may cause a dose - dependent reduction in renal prostaglandin formation and may precipitate acute renal failure .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , dehydration , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and the elderly .
Discontinuation of ketorolac tromethamine therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
Renal Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys , which , in patients with reduced creatinine clearance , will result in diminished clearance of the drug ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) and such patients should be followed closely .
With the use of ketorolac tromethamine , there have been reports of acute renal failure , nephritis and nephrotic syndrome .
Because patients with underlying renal insufficiency are at increased risk of developing acute renal failure , the risks and benefits should be assessed prior to giving ketorolac tromethamine to these patients .
Hence , in patients with moderately elevated serum creatinine , it is recommended that the daily dose of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection be reduced by half , not to exceed 60 mg / day .
Ketorolac tromethamine IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WITH SERUM CREATININE CONCENTRATIONS INDICATING ADVANCED RENAL IMPAIRMENT ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hypovolemia should be corrected before treatment with ketorolac tromethamine is initiated .
Fluid Retention and Edema : Fluid retention , edema , retention of NaCl , oliguria , elevations of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine have been reported in clinical trials with ketorolac tromethamine .
Therefore , ketorolac tromethamine should be used only very cautiously in patients with cardiac decompensation , hypertension or similar conditions .
Hemorrhage : Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well , use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders should be undertaken very cautiously , and those patients should be carefully monitored .
Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants ( e . g . , heparin or dicumarol derivatives ) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently ; therefore , physicians should administer such concomitant therapy only extremely cautiously .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and prophylactic low - dose heparin ( 2500 to 5000 units q12h ) , warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively , but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding .
Until data from such studies are available , physicians should carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only extremely cautiously .
In patients who receive anticoagulants for any reason , there is an increased risk of intramuscular hematoma formation from administered ketorolac tromethamine IM ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis should be monitored closely .
In postmarketing experience , postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the perioperative use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection .
Therefore , perioperative use of ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided and postoperative use be undertaken with caution when hemostasis is critical ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Anaphylactoid Reactions : Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without a known previous exposure or hypersensitivity to aspirin , ketorolac tromethamine or other NSAIDs , or in individuals with a history of angioedema , bronchospastic reactivity ( e . g . , asthma ) and nasal polyps .
Anaphylactoid reactions , like anaphylaxis , may have a fatal outcome .
PRECAUTIONS General Hepatic Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or a history of liver disease .
Treatment with ketorolac tromethamine may cause elevations of liver enzymes , and , in patients with pre - existing liver dysfunction , it may lead to the development of a more severe hepatic reaction .
The administration of ketorolac tromethamine should be discontinued in patients in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred as a result of ketorolac tromethamine therapy .
Hematologic Effects : Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet aggregation and may prolong bleeding time ; therefore , it is contraindicated as a preoperative medication , and caution should be used when hemostasis is critical .
Unlike aspirin , the inhibition of platelet function by ketorolac tromethamine disappears within 24 to 48 hours after the drug is discontinued .
Ketorolac tromethamine does not appear to affect platelet count , prothrombin time ( PT ) or partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) .
In controlled clinical studies , where ketorolac tromethamine was administered intramuscularly or intravenously postoperatively , the incidence of clinically significant postoperative bleeding was 0 . 4 % for ketorolac tromethamine compared to 0 . 2 % in the control groups receiving narcotic analgesics .
Information for Patients Ketorolac tromethamine is a potent NSAID and may cause serious side effects such as gastrointestinal bleeding or kidney failure , which may result in hospitalization and even fatal outcome .
Physicians , when prescribing ketorolac tromethamine , should inform their patients of the potential risks of ketorolac tromethamine treatment ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
Advise patients not to give ketorolac tromethamine tablets to other family members and to discard any unused drug .
Remember that the total duration of ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed five ( 5 ) days .
Drug Interactions Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein ( mean 99 . 2 % ) .
Thein vitro binding ofwarfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine ( 99 . 5 % control vs . 99 . 3 % ) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg / mL .
Ketorolac does not alterdigoxin protein binding .
In vitro studies indicate that , at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate ( 300 mcg / mL ) , the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99 . 2 % to 97 . 5 % , representing a potential two - fold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels .
Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin , warfarin , ibuprofen , naproxen , piroxicam , acetaminophen , phenytoin and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding .
In a study involving 12 volunteers , ketorolac tromethamine tablets were coadministered with a single dose of 25 mg warfarin , causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin .
In another study , Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection was given with two doses of 5000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers , resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6 . 4 minutes ( 3 . 2 to 11 . 4 min ) compared to a mean of 6 . 0 minutes ( 3 . 4 to 7 . 5 min ) for heparin alone and 5 . 1 minutes ( 3 . 5 to 8 . 5 min ) for placebo .
Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and warfarin or heparin , the administration of ketorolac tromethamine to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously , and patients should be closely monitored ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection reduced the diuretic response to furosemide in normo - volemic healthy subjects by approximately 20 % ( mean sodium and urinary output decreased 17 % ) .
Concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels ( total AUC increased approximately three - fold from 5 . 4 to 17 . 8 mcg / h / mL ) and terminal half - life increased approximately two - fold from 6 . 6 to 15 . 1 hours .
Therefore , concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated .
Inhibition of renal lithiumclearance , leading to an increase in plasma lithium concentration , has been reported with some prostaglandin synthesis - inhibiting drugs .
The effect of ketorolac tromethamine on plasma lithium has not been studied , but cases of increased lithium plasma levels during ketorolac tromethamine therapy have been reported .
Concomitant administration of methotrexateand some NSAIDs has been reported to reduce the clearance of methotrexate , enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate .
The effect of ketorolac tromethamine on methotrexate clearance has not been studied .
In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection andnondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea .
The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied .
Concomitant use of ACE inhibitorsmay increase the risk of renal impairment , particularly in volume - depleted patients .
Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and antiepileptic drugs ( phenytoin , carbamazepine ) .
Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac tromethamine was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs ( fluoxetine , thiothixene , alprazolam ) .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection has been administered concurrently withmorphine in several clinical trials of postoperative pain without evidence of adverse interactions .
Do not mix ketorolac tromethamine and morphine in the same syringe .
There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac tromethamine induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month study in mice with oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 2 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 9 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended IM or IV dose of 30 mg qid , based on area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve ( AUC ) , and a 24 - month study in rats at 5 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times the human AUC ) showed no evidence of tumorigenicity .
Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test , unscheduled DNA synthesis and repair , and in forward mutation assays .
Ketorolac tromethamine did not cause chromosome breakage in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
At 1590 mcg / mL and at higher concentrations , ketorolac tromethamine increased the incidence of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovarian cells .
Impairment of fertility did not occur in male or female rats at oral doses of 9 mg / kg ( 0 . 9 times the human AUC ) and 16 mg / kg ( 1 . 6 times the human AUC ) of ketorolac tromethamine , respectively .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Reproduction studies have been performed during organogenesis using daily oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 3 . 6 mg / kg ( 0 . 37 times the human AUC ) in rabbits and at 10 mg / kg ( 1 times the human AUC ) in rats .
Results of these studies did not reveal evidence of teratogenicity to the fetus .
Oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 1 . 5 mg / kg ( 0 . 14 times the human AUC ) , administered after gestation day 17 , caused dystocia and higher pup mortality in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of ketorolac tromethamine in pregnant women .
Ketorolac tromethamine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery The use of ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because , through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect , it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions , thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Lactation and Nursing After a single administration of 10 mg of ketorolac tromethamine tablets to humans , the maximum milk concentration observed was 7 . 3 ng / mL , and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 037 .
After 1 day of dosing ( qid ) , the maximum milk concentration was 7 . 9 ng / mL , and the maximum milk - to - plasma ratio was 0 . 025 .
Because of the possible adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates , use in nursing mothers is CONTRAINDICATED .
Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients ( less than 16 years of age ) have not been established .
Therefore , use of ketorolac tromethamine in pediatric patients is not recommended .
Use In The Elderly ( ≥ 65 Years Of Age ) Because ketorolac tromethamine may be cleared more slowly by the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) who are also more sensitive to the adverse effects of NSAIDs ( see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ) , extra caution and reduced dosages ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) must be used when treating the elderly with Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection .
The lower end of the Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection dosage range is recommended for patients over 65 years of age , and total daily dose is not to exceed 60 mg .
The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of , and duration of treatment with , ketorolac tromethamine .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac tromethamine .
Practitioners should be alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac tromethamine , such as GI ulceration , bleeding and perforation , postoperative bleeding , acute renal failure , anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions and liver failure ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
These NSAID - related complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac tromethamine is indicated , especially when the drug is used inappropriately .
The Adverse Reactions Listed Below Were Reported In Clinical Trials As Probably Related To Ketorolac Tromethamine : • Incidence Greater Than 1 % Percentage of incidence in parentheses for those events reported in 3 % or more patients Body as a Whole : edema ( 4 % ) Cardiovascular : hypertension Dermatologic : pruritus , rash Gastrointestinal : nausea ( 12 % ) , dyspepsia ( 12 % ) , gastrointestinal pain ( 13 % ) , diarrhea ( 7 % ) , constipation , flatulence , gastrointestinal fullness , vomiting , stomatitis Hemic and Lymphatic : purpura Nervous System : headache ( 17 % ) , drowsiness ( 6 % ) , dizziness ( 7 % ) , sweating Injection - site pain was reported by 2 % of patients in multi - dose studies .
• Incidence 1 % or Less Body as a Whole : weight gain , fever , infections , asthenia Cardiovascular : palpitation , pallor , syncope Dermatologic : urticaria Gastrointestinal : gastritis , rectal bleeding , eructation , anorexia , increased appetite Hemic and Lymphatic : epistaxis , anemia , eosinophilia Nervous System : tremors , abnormal dreams , hallucinations , euphoria , extrapyramidal symptoms , vertigo , paresthesia , depression , insomnia , nervousness , excessive thirst , dry mouth , abnormal thinking , inability to concentrate , hyperkinesis , stupor Respiratory : dyspnea , pulmonary edema , rhinitis , cough Special Senses : abnormal taste , abnormal vision , blurred vision , tinnitus , hearing loss Urogenital : hematuria , proteinuria , oliguria , urinary retention , polyuria , increased urinary frequency The Following Adverse Events Were Reported From Postmarketing Experience : Body as a Whole : hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reaction , laryngeal edema , tongue edema ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , myalgia Cardiovascular : hypotension , flushing Dermatologic : Lyell ’ s syndrome , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis , maculo - papular rash , urticaria Gastrointestinal : peptic ulceration , GI hemorrhage , GI perforation ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , melena , acute pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic : postoperative wound hemorrhage ( rarely requiring blood transfusion — see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia Hepatic : hepatitis , liver failure , cholestatic jaundice Nervous System : convulsions , psychosis , aseptic meningitis Respiratory : asthma , bronchospasm Urogenital : acute renal failure ( see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS ) , flank pain with or without hematuria and / or azotemia , nephritis , hyponatremia , hyperkalemia , hemolytic uremic syndrome OVERDOSAGE In controlled overdosage , daily doses of 360 mg of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection given for five ( 5 ) days ( three times the highest recommended dose ) , caused abdominal pain and peptic ulcers which healed after discontinuation of dosing .
Metabolic acidosis has been reported following intentional overdosage .
Dialysis does not significantly clear ketorolac tromethamine from the blood stream .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE COMBINED DURATION OF USE OF KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION AND KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE TABLETS IS NOT TO EXCEED FIVE ( 5 ) DAYS .
THE USE OF KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE TABLETS IS ONLY INDICATED AS CONTINUATION THERAPY TO KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection may be used as a single or multiple dose on a regular or “ prn ” schedule for the management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level , usually in a postoperative setting .
Hypovolemia should be corrected prior to the administration of ketorolac tromethamine ( see WARNINGS — Renal Effects ) .
Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible , but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed five ( 5 ) days .
When administering Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection , the IV bolus must be given over no less than 15 seconds .
The IM administration should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle .
The analgesic effect begins in ~ 30 minutes with maximum effect in 1 to 2 hours after dosing IV or IM .
Duration of analgesic effect is usually 4 to 6 hours .
Single - Dose Treatment : The Following Regimen Should Be Limited to Single Administration Use Only IM Dosing : • Patients < 65 years of age : One dose of 60 mg .
• Patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired and / or less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight : One dose of 30 mg .
IV Dosing : • Patients < 65 years of age : One dose of 30 mg .
• Patients ≥ 65 years of age , renally impaired and / or less than 50 kg ( 110 lbs ) of body weight : One dose of 15 mg .
Multiple - Dose Treatment ( IV or IM ) Patients < 65 Years of Age : The recommended dose is 30 mg Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection every 6 hours .
The maximum daily dose should not exceed 120 mg .
For Patients ≥ 65 Years of Age , Renally Impaired Patients ( see WARNINGS ) and Patients Less Than 50 Kg ( 110 lbs ) : The recommended dose is 15 mg Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection every 6 hours .
The maximum daily dose for these populations should not exceed 60 mg .
For breakthrough pain do not increase the dose or the frequency of ketorolac tromethamine .
Consideration should be given to supplementing these regimens with low doses of opioids “ prn ” unless otherwise contraindicated .
Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection should not be mixed in a small volume ( e . g . , in a syringe ) with morphine sulfate , meperidine hydrochloride , promethazine hydrochloride or hydroxyzine hydrochloride ; this will result in precipitation of ketorolac from solution .
HOW SUPPLIED Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection , USP is available in pre - filled syringes as follows : For IV or IM Single - Dose use : A syringe containing 1 mL of 15 mg / mL Ketorolac Tromethamine , USP , NDC 10019 - 021 - 09 , available in boxes of 10 .
A syringe containing 1 mL of 30 mg / mL Ketorolac Tromethamine , USP , NDC 10019 - 022 - 09 , available in boxes of 10 .
For IM Single - Dose use only : A syringe containing 2 mL of 30 mg / mL Ketorolac Tromethamine , USP , ( 60 mg ) , NDC 10019 - 022 - 32 , available in boxes of 10 .
Each disposable syringe is supplied with an individually wrapped 22 gauge , 1 1 / 2 inch needle .
Directions for use : Peel back needle wrapping and expose needle hub ; avoid touching hub .
Aseptically remove rubber protective cap from the syringe .
Attach needle to syringe hub with a twist , keeping needle sheath intact .
Remove needle sheath and inject medication .
To prevent needle - stick injuries , needles should not be recapped , purposely bent , or broken by hand .
Dispose of used syringe in accordance with applicable medical waste regulations and guidelines .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT Retain in carton until time of use .
Manufactured for Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA by : Taylor Pharmaceuticals Decatur , IL 62525 For Product Inquiry 1 800 ANA DRUG ( 1 - 800 - 262 - 3784 ) 400 - 657 - 02 MLT - 01572 / 1 . 0
