Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) ( one teaspoonful ) Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 10 mg Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Use temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with cold helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive Warnings Do not use • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period age dose adults and children 12 years of age and over 2 teaspoonfuls every 4 hours children 6 years to under 12 years of age 1 teaspoonful every 4 hours children 2 years to under 6 years of age 1 / 2 teaspoonful every 4 hours under 2 years of age ask a doctor Other information • • store at room temperature 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86ºF ) • • protect from freezing .
• • protect from light .
• • Each teaspoon ( 5 mL ) contains : sodium 2 mg .
• • TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE THIS PRODUCT IF BREAKAWAY BAND ON CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Inactive ingredients citric acid , FD & C Red # 40 , flavors , glucose , glycerin , high fructose corn syrup , menthol , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , water PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
