[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Selegiline hydrochloride is a levorotatory acetylenic derivative of phenethylamine .
It is commonly referred to in the clinical and pharmacological literature as l - deprenyl .
The chemical name is : ( R ) - ( - ) - N , 2 - dimethyl - N - 2 - propynylphenethylamine hydrochloride .
It is a white to near white crystalline powder , freely soluble in water , chloroform , and methanol , and has a molecular weight of 223 . 75 .
The molecular formula is C13H17 • HCl .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 5 mg selegiline hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients are citric acid , anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , and microcrystalline cellulose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The mechanisms accounting for selegiline ' s beneficial adjunctive action in the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease are not fully understood .
Inhibition of monoamine oxidase , type B , activity is generally considered to be of primary importance ; in addition , there is evidence that selegiline may act through other mechanisms to increase dopaminergic activity .
Selegiline is best known as an irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) , an intracellular enzyme associated with the outer membrane of mitochondria .
Selegiline inhibits MAO by acting as a ' suicide ' substrate for the enzyme ; that is , it is converted by MAO to an active moiety which combines irreversibly with the active site and / or the enzyme ' s essential FAD cofactor .
Because selegiline has greater affinity for type B rather than for type A active sites , it can serve as a selective inhibitor of MAO type B if it is administered at the recommended dose .
MAOs are widely distributed throughout the body ; their concentration is especially high in liver , kidney , stomach , intestinal wall , and brain .
MAOs are currently subclassified into two types , A and B , which differ in their substrate specificity and tissue distribution .
In humans , intestinal MAO is predominantly type A , while most of that in brain is type B .
In CNS neurons , MAO plays an important role in the catabolism of catecholamines ( dopamine , norepinephrine and epinephrine ) and serotonin .
MAOs are also important in the catabolism of various exogenous amines found in a variety of foods and drugs .
MAO in the GI tract and liver ( primarily type A ) , for example , is thought to provide vital protection from exogenous amines ( e . g . , tyramine ) that have the capacity , if absorbed intact , to cause a ' hypertensive crisis , ' the so - called ' cheese reaction . '
( If large amounts of certain exogenous amines gain access to the systemic circulation - e . g . , from fermented cheese , red wine , herring , over - the - counter cough / cold medications , etc . - they are taken up by adrenergic neurons and displace norepinephrine from storage sites within membrane bound vesicles .
Subsequent release of the displaced norepinephrine causes the rise in systemic blood pressure , etc . ) In theory , since MAO A of the gut is not inhibited , patients treated with selegiline at a dose of 10 mg a day should be able to take medications containing pharmacologically active amines and consume tyramine - containing foods without risk of uncontrolled hypertension .
Although rare , a few reports of hypertensive reactions have occurred in patients receiving selegiline at the recommended dose , with tyramine - containing foods .
In addition , one case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication , ephedrine .
The pathophysiology of the ' cheese reaction ' is complicated and , in addition to its ability to inhibit MAO B selectively , selegiline ' s relative freedom from this reaction has been attributed to an ability to prevent tyramine and other indirect acting sympathomimetics from displacing norepinephrine from adrenergic neurons .
However , until the pathophysiology of the ' cheese reaction ' is more completely understood , it seems prudent to assume that selegiline can ordinarily only be used safely without dietary restrictions at doses where it presumably selectively inhibits MAO B ( e . g . , 10 mg / day ) .
In short , attention to the dose dependent nature of selegiline ' s selectivity is critical if it is to be used without elaborate restrictions being placed on diet and concomitant drug use although , as noted above , a few cases of hypertensive reactions have been reported at the recommended dose .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
It is important to be aware that selegiline may have pharmacological effects unrelated to MAO B inhibition .
As noted above , there is some evidence that it may increase dopaminergic activity by other mechanisms , including interfering with dopamine re - uptake at the synapse .
Effects resulting from selegiline administration may also be mediated through its metabolites .
Two of its three principal metabolites , amphetamine and methamphetamine , have pharmacological actions of their own ; they interfere with neuronal uptake and enhance release of several neurotransmitters ( e . g . , norepinephrine , dopamine , serotonin ) .
However , the extent to which these metabolites contribute to the effects of selegiline are unknown .
Rationale for the Use of a Selective Monoamine Oxidase Type B Inhibitor in Parkinson ' s Disease Many of the prominent symptoms of Parkinson ' s disease are due to a deficiency of striatal dopamine that is the consequence of a progressive degeneration and loss of a population of dopaminergic neurons which originate in the substantia nigra of the midbrain and project to the basal ganglia or striatum .
Early in the course of Parkinson ' s Disease , the deficit in the capacity of these neurons to synthesize dopamine can be overcome by administration of exogenous levodopa , usually given in combination with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor ( carbidopa ) .
With the passage of time , due to the progression of the disease and / or the effect of sustained treatment , the efficacy and quality of the therapeutic response to levodopa diminishes .
Thus , after several years of levodopa treatment , the response , for a given dose of levodopa , is shorter , has less predictable onset and offset ( i . e . , there is ' wearing off ' ) , and is often accompanied by side effects ( e . g . , dyskinesia , akinesias , on - off phenomena , freezing , etc . ) .
This deteriorating response is currently interpreted as a manifestation of the inability of the ever decreasing population of intact nigrostriatal neurons to synthesize and release adequate amounts of dopamine .
MAO B inhibition may be useful in this setting because , by blocking the catabolism of dopamine , it would increase the net amount of dopamine available ( i . e . , it would increase the pool of dopamine ) .
Whether or not this mechanism or an alternative one actually accounts for the observed beneficial effects of adjunctive selegiline is unknown .
Selegiline ' s benefit in Parkinson ' s disease has only been documented as an adjunct to levodopa / carbidopa .
Whether or not it might be effective as a sole treatment is unknown , but past attempts to treat Parkinson ' s disease with nonselective MAOI monotherapy are reported to have been unsuccessful .
It is important to note that attempts to treat Parkinsonian patients with combinations of levodopa and currently marketed non - selective MAO inhibitors were abandoned because of multiple side effects including hypertension , increase in involuntary movement and toxic delirium .
Pharmacokinetic Information ( Absorption , Distribution , Metabolism and Elimination - ADME ) The absolute bioavailability of selegiline following oral dosing is not known ; however , selegiline undergoes extensive metabolism ( presumably attributable to presystemic clearance in gut and liver ) .
The major plasma metabolites are N - desmethylselegiline , L - amphetamine and L - methamphetamine .
Only N - desmethylselegiline has MAO - B inhibiting activity .
The peak plasma levels of these metabolites following a single oral dose of 10 mg are from 4 to almost 20 times greater than that of the maximum plasma concentration of selegiline ( 1 ng / mL ) .
The maximum concentrations of amphetamine and methamphetamine , however , are far below those ordinarily expected to produce clinically important effects .
Single oral dose studies do not predict multiple dose kinetics , however , at steady state the peak plasma level of selegiline is 4 fold that obtained following a single dose .
Metabolite concentrations increase to a lesser extent , averaging 2 fold that seen after a single dose .
The bioavailability of selegiline is increased 3 to 4 fold when it is taken with food .
The extent of systemic exposure to selegiline at a given dose varies considerably among individuals .
Estimates of systemic clearance of selegiline are not available .
Following a single oral dose , the mean elimination half - life of selegiline is two hours .
Under steady state conditions the elimination half - life increases to ten hours .
Because selegiline ' s inhibition of MAO - B is irreversible , it is impossible to predict the extent of MAO - B inhibition from steady state plasma levels .
For the same reason , it is not possible to predict the rate of recovery of MAO - B activity as a function of plasma levels .
The recovery of MAO - B activity is a function of de novo protein synthesis ; however , information about the rate of de novo protein synthesis is not yet available .
Although platelet MAO - B activity returns to the normal range within 5 to 7 days of selegiline discontinuation , the linkage between platelet and brain MAO - B inhibition is not fully understood nor is the relationship of MAO - B inhibition to the clinical effect established ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Special Populations Renal Impairment No pharmacokinetic information is available on selegiline or its metabolites in renally impaired subjects .
Hepatic Impairment No pharmacokinetic information is available on selegiline or its metabolites in hepatically impaired subjects .
Age Although a general conclusion about the effects of age on the pharmacokinetics of selegiline is not warranted because of the size of the sample evaluated ( 12 subjects greater than 60 years of age , 12 subjects between the ages of 18 to 30 ) , systemic exposure was about twice as great in older as compared to a younger population given a single oral dose of 10 mg .
Gender No information is available on the effects of gender on the pharmacokinetics of selegiline .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Selegiline Hydrochloride Tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct in the management of Parkinsonian patients being treated with levodopa / carbidopa who exhibit deterioration in the quality of their response to this therapy .
There is no evidence from controlled studies that selegiline has any beneficial effect in the absence of concurrent levodopa therapy .
Evidence supporting this claim was obtained in randomized controlled clinical investigations that compared the effects of added selegiline or placebo in patients receiving levodopa / carbidopa .
Selegiline was significantly superior to placebo on all three principal outcome measures employed : change from baseline in daily levodopa / carbidopa dose , the amount of ' off ' time , and patient self - rating of treatment success .
Beneficial effects were also observed on other measures of treatment success ( e . g . , measures of reduced end of dose akinesia , decreased tremor and sialorrhea , improved speech and dressing ability and improved overall disability as assessed by walking and comparison to previous state ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Selegiline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug .
Selegiline is contraindicated for use with meperidine .
This contraindication is often extended to other opioids .
( See Drug Interactions . )
WARNINGS Selegiline should not be used at daily doses exceeding those recommended ( 10 mg / day ) because of the risks associated with non - selective inhibition of MAO .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY . )
The selectivity of selegiline for MAO B may not be absolute even at the recommended daily dose of 10 mg a day .
Rare cases of hypertensive reactions associated with ingestion of tyramine - containing foods have been reported in patients taking the recommended daily dose of selegiline .
The selectivity is further diminished with increasing daily doses .
The precise dose at which selegiline becomes a non - selective inhibitor of all MAO is unknown , but may be in the range of 30 to 40 mg a day .
Severe CNS toxicity associated with hyperpyrexia and death have been reported with the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and non - selective MAOIs ( Phenelzine , Tranylcypromine ) .
A similar reaction has been reported for a patient on amitriptyline and selegiline .
Another patient receiving protriptyline and selegiline developed tremors , agitation , and restlessness followed by unresponsiveness and death two weeks after selegiline was added .
Related adverse events including hypertension , syncope , asystole , diaphoresis , seizures , changes in behavioral and mental status , and muscular rigidity have also been reported in some patients receiving selegiline and various tricyclic antidepressants .
Serious , sometimes fatal , reactions with signs and symptoms that may include hyperthermia , rigidity , myoclonus , autonomic instability with rapid fluctuations of the vital signs , and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma have been reported with patients receiving a combination of fluoxetine hydrochloride and non - selective MAOIs .
Similar signs have been reported in some patients on the combination of selegiline ( 10 mg a day ) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors including fluoxetine , sertraline and paroxetine .
Since the mechanisms of these reactions are not fully understood , it seems prudent , in general , to avoid this combination of selegiline and tricyclic antidepressants as well as selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
Because of the long half lives of fluoxetine and its active metabolite , at least five weeks ( perhaps longer , especially if fluoxetine has been prescribed chronically and / or at higher doses ) should elapse between discontinuation of fluoxetine and initiation of treatment with selegiline .
PRECAUTIONS General Some patients given selegiline may experience an exacerbation of levodopa associated side effects , presumably due to the increased amounts of dopamine reaction with super sensitive , post - synaptic receptors .
These effects may often be mitigated by reducing the dose of levodopa / carbidopa by approximately 10 to 30 % .
The decision to prescribe selegiline should take into consideration that the MAO system of enzymes is complex and incompletely understood and there is only a limited amount of carefully documented clinical experience with selegiline .
Consequently , the full spectrum of possible responses to selegiline may not have been observed in pre - marketing evaluation of the drug .
It is advisable , therefore , to observe patients closely for atypical responses .
Melanoma Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson ' s disease have a higher risk ( 2 - to approximately 6 - fold higher ) of developing melanoma than the general population .
Whether the increased risk observed was due to Parkinson ' s disease or other factors , such as drugs used to treat Parkinson ' s disease , is unclear .
For the reasons stated above , patients and providers are advised to monitor for melanomas frequently and on a regular basis when using selegiline for any indication .
Ideally , periodic skin examinations should be performed by appropriately qualified individuals ( e . g . , dermatologists ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised of the possible need to reduce levodopa dosage after the initiation of selegiline therapy .
Patients ( or their families if the patient is incompetent ) should be advised not to exceed the daily recommended dose of 10 mg .
The risk of using higher daily doses of selegiline should be explained , and a brief description of the ' cheese reaction ' provided .
Rare hypertensive reactions with selegiline at recommended doses associated with dietary influences have been reported .
Consequently , it may be useful to inform patients ( or their families ) about the signs and symptoms associated with MAOI induced hypertensive reactions .
In particular , patients should be urged to report , immediately , any severe headache or other atypical or unusual symptoms not previously experienced .
There have been reports of patients experiencing intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , and other intense urges and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications that increase central dopaminergic tone , that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease , including selegiline .
Although it is not proven that the medications caused these events , these urges were reported to have stopped in some cases when the dose was reduced or the medication was stopped .
Prescribers should ask patients about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges or other urges while being treated with selegiline .
Patients should inform their physician if they experience new or increased gambling urges , increased sexual urges or other intense urges while taking selegiline .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking selegiline .
Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are deemed essential for the management of patients on selegiline .
Periodic routine evaluation of all patients , however , is appropriate .
Drug Interactions The occurrence of stupor , muscular rigidity , severe agitation , and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine .
Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued .
This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs .
Other serious reactions ( including severe agitation , hallucinations , and death ) have been reported in patients receiving this combination ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selegiline .
( See WARNINGS for details . )
One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication ( ephedrine ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Assessment of the carcinogenic potential of selegiline in mice and rats is ongoing for all dosage forms .
Selegiline did not induce mutations or chromosomal damage when tested in the bacterial mutation assay in Salmonella typhimurium and in an in vivo chromosomal aberration assay .
While these studies provide some reassurance that selegiline is not mutagenic or clastogenic , they are not definitive because of methodological limitations .
No definitive in vitro chromosomal aberration or in vitro mammalian gene mutation assays have been performed .
The effect of selegiline on fertility has not been adequately assessed .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C No teratogenic effects were observed in a study of embryo - fetal development in Sprague - Dawley rats at oral doses of 4 , 12 , and 36 mg / kg or 4 , 12 and 35 times the human therapeutic dose on a mg / m2 basis .
No teratogenic effects were observed in a study of embryo - fetal development in New Zealand White rabbits at oral doses of 5 , 25 , and 50 mg / kg or 10 , 48 , and 95 times the human therapeutic dose on a mg / m2 basis ; however , in this study , the number of litters produced at the two higher doses was less than recommended for assessing teratogenic potential .
In the rat study , there was a decrease in fetal body weight at the highest dose tested .
In the rabbit study , increases in total resorptions and % post - implantation loss , and a decrease in the number of live fetuses per dam occurred at the highest dose tested .
In a peri - and postnatal development study in Sprague - Dawley rats ( oral doses of 4 , 16 , and 64 mg / kg or 4 , 15 , and 62 times the human therapeutic dose on a mg / m2 basis ) , an increase in the number of stillbirths and decreases in the number of pups per dam , pup survival , and pup body weight ( at birth and throughout the lactation period ) were observed at the two highest doses .
At the highest dose tested , no pups born alive survived to Day 4 postpartum .
Postnatal development at the highest dose tested in dams could not be evaluated because of the lack of surviving pups .
The reproductive performance of the untreated offspring was not assessed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Selegiline should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether selegiline hydrochloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , consideration should be given to discontinuing the use of all but absolutely essential drug treatments in nursing women .
Pediatric Use The effects of selegiline hydrochloride in children have not been evaluated .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Introduction The number of patients who received selegiline in prospectively monitored pre - marketing studies is limited .
While other sources of information about the use of selegiline are available ( e . g . , literature reports , foreign post - marketing reports , etc . ) they do not provide the kind of information necessary to estimate the incidence of adverse events .
Thus , overall incidence figures for adverse reactions associated with the use of selegiline cannot be provided .
Many of the adverse reactions seen have also been reported as symptoms of dopamine excess .
Moreover , the importance and severity of various reactions reported often cannot be ascertained .
One index of relative importance , however , is whether or not a reaction caused treatment discontinuation .
In prospective pre - marketing studies , the following events led , in decreasing order of frequency , to discontinuation of treatment with selegiline : nausea , hallucinations , confusion , depression , loss of balance , insomnia , orthostatic hypotension , increased akinetic involuntary movements , agitation , arrhythmia , bradykinesia , chorea , delusions , hypertension , new or increased angina pectoris and syncope .
Events reported only once as a cause of discontinuation are ankle edema , anxiety , burning lips / mouth , constipation , drowsiness / lethargy , dystonia , excess perspiration , increased freezing , gastrointestinal bleeding , hair loss , increased tremor , nervousness , weakness and weight loss .
Experience with selegiline obtained in parallel , placebo controlled , randomized studies provides only a limited basis for estimates of adverse reaction rates .
The following reactions that occurred with greater frequency among the 49 patients assigned to selegiline as compared to the 50 patients assigned to placebo in the only parallel , placebo controlled trial performed in patients with Parkinson ' s disease are shown in the following Table .
None of these adverse reactions led to a discontinuation of treatment .
INCIDENCE OF TREATMENT - EMERGENT ADVERSE EXPERIENCES IN THE PLACEBO - CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIALAdverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events selegiline hydrochloride N = 49 placebo N = 50 Nausea 10 3 Dizziness / Light - headed / Fainting 7 1 Abdominal Pain 4 2 Confusion 3 0 Hallucinations 3 1 Dry mouth 3 1 Vivid Dreams 2 0 Dyskinesias 2 5 Headache 2 1 The following events were reported once in either or both groups : Ache , generalized 1 0 Anxiety / Tension 1 1 Anemia 0 1 Diarrhea 1 0 Hair Loss 0 1 Insomnia 1 1 Lethargy 1 0 Leg pain 1 0 Low back pain 1 0 Malaise 0 1 Palpitations 1 0 Urinary Retention 1 0 Weight Loss 1 0 In all prospectively monitored clinical investigations , enrolling approximately 920 patients , the following adverse events , classified by body system , were reported .
Central Nervous System Motor / Coordination / Extrapyramidal increased tremor , chorea , loss of balance , restlessness , blepharospasm , increased bradykinesia , facial grimace , falling down , heavy leg , muscle twitch * , myoclonic jerks * , stiff neck , tardive dyskinesia , dystonic symptoms , dyskinesia , involuntary movements , freezing , festination , increased apraxia , muscle cramps .
Mental Status / Behavioral / Psychiatric hallucinations , dizziness , confusion , anxiety , depression , drowsiness , behavior / mood change , dreams / nightmares , tiredness , delusions , disorientation , lightheadedness , impaired memory * , increased energy * , transient high * , hollow feeling , lethargy / malaise , apathy , overstimulation , vertigo , personality change , sleep disturbance , restlessness , weakness , transient irritability .
Pain / Altered Sensation headache , back pain , leg pain , tinnitus , migraine , supraorbital pain , throat burning , generalized ache , chills , numbness of toes / fingers , taste disturbance .
Autonomic Nervous System dry mouth , blurred vision , sexual dysfunction .
Cardiovascular orthostatic hypotension , hypertension , arrhythmia , palpitations , new or increased angina pectoris , hypotension , tachycardia , peripheral edema , sinus bradycardia , syncope .
Gastrointestinal nausea / vomiting , constipation , weight loss , anorexia , poor appetite , dysphagia , diarrhea , heartburn , rectal bleeding , bruxism * , gastrointestinal bleeding ( exacerbation of preexisting ulcer disease ) .
Genitourinary / Gynecologic / Endocrine slow urination , transient anorgasmia * , nocturia , prostatic hypertrophy , urinary hesitancy , urinary retention , decreased penile sensation * , urinary frequency .
* Indicates events reported only at doses greater than 10 mg / day .
Skin and Appendages increased sweating , diaphoresis , facial hair , hair loss , hematoma , rash , photosensitivity .
Miscellaneous asthma , diplopia , shortness of breath , speech affected .
Postmarketing Reports The following experiences were described in spontaneous post - marketing reports .
These reports do not provide sufficient information to establish a clear causal relationship with the use of selegiline hydrochloride .
CNS Seizure in dialyzed chronic renal failure patient on concomitant medications .
OVERDOSAGE Selegiline No specific information is available about clinically significant overdoses with selegiline hydrochloride .
However , experience gained during selegiline ' s development reveals that some individuals exposed to doses of 600 mg of d , l - selegiline suffered severe hypotension and psychomotor agitation .
Since the selective inhibition of MAO B by selegiline hydrochloride is achieved only at doses in the range recommended for the treatment of Parkinson ' s disease ( e . g . , 10 mg / day ) , overdoses are likely to cause significant inhibition of both MAO A and MAO B . Consequently , the signs and symptoms of overdose may resemble those observed with marketed non - selective MAO inhibitors ( e . g . , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazide , and phenelzine ) .
Overdose with Non - Selective MAO Inhibition NOTE : This section is provided for reference ; it does not describe events that have actually been observed with selegiline in overdose .
Characteristically , signs and symptoms of non - selective MAOI overdose may not appear immediately .
Delays of up to 12 hours between ingestion of drug and the appearance of signs may occur .
Importantly , the peak intensity of the syndrome may not be reached for upwards of a day following the overdose .
Death has been reported following overdosage .
Therefore , immediate hospitalization , with continuous patient observation and monitoring for a period of at least two days following the ingestion of such drugs in overdose , is strongly recommended .
The clinical picture of MAOI overdose varies considerably ; its severity may be a function of the amount of drug consumed .
The central nervous and cardiovascular systems are prominently involved .
Signs and symptoms of overdosage may include , alone or in combination , any of the following : drowsiness , dizziness , faintness , irritability , hyperactivity , agitation , severe headache , hallucinations , trismus , opisthotonus , convulsions , and coma ; rapid and irregular pulse , hypertension , hypotension and vascular collapse ; precordial pain , respiratory depression and failure , hyperpyrexia , diaphoresis , and cool , clammy skin .
Treatment Suggestions for Overdose NOTE : Because there is no recorded experience with selegiline overdose , the following suggestions are offered based upon the assumption that selegiline overdose may be modeled by non - selective MAOI poisoning .
In any case , up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose can often be obtained from a certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified Poison Control Centers are listed in the Physicians ' Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
Treatment of overdose with non - selective MAOIs is symptomatic and supportive .
Induction of emesis or gastric lavage with instillation of charcoal slurry may be helpful in early poisoning , provided the airway has been protected against aspiration .
Signs and symptoms of central nervous system stimulation , including convulsions , should be treated with diazepam , given slowly intravenously .
Phenothiazine derivatives and central nervous system stimulants should be avoided .
Hypotension and vascular collapse should be treated with intravenous fluids and , if necessary , blood pressure titration with an intravenous infusion of a dilute pressor agent .
It should be noted that adrenergic agents may produce a markedly increased pressor response .
Respiration should be supported by appropriate measures , including management of the airway , use of supplemental oxygen , and mechanical ventilatory assistance , as required .
Body temperature should be monitored closely .
Intensive management of hyperpyrexia may be required .
Maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance is essential .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Selegiline hydrochloride tablets USP are intended for administration to Parkinsonian patients receiving levodopa / carbidopa therapy who demonstrate a deteriorating response to this treatment .
The recommended regimen for the administration of Selegiline Hydrochloride Tablets USP is 10 mg per day administered as divided doses of 5 mg each taken at breakfast and lunch .
There is no evidence that additional benefit will be obtained from the administration of higher doses .
Moreover , higher doses should ordinarily be avoided because of the increased risk of side effects .
After two to three days of selegiline treatment , an attempt may be made to reduce the dose of levodopa / carbidopa .
A reduction of 10 to 30 % was achieved with the typical participant in the domestic placebo controlled trials who was assigned to selegiline treatment .
Further reductions of levodopa / carbidopa may be possible during continued selegiline therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Selegiline Hydrochloride Tablets USP 5 mg are available for oral administration as white or slightly mottled , round , unscored tablets imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and “ 3438 ” on the other side .
They are supplied as bottles of 60 ( NDC 60505 - 3438 - 3 ) and bottles of 500 ( NDC 60505 - 3438 - 8 ) .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container [ see USP ] with a child - resistant closure as required .
APOTEX INC .
SELEGILINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS USP 5 mg Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : June 2009 Rev . 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg BOTTLE LABEL Representative sample of labeling ( see HOW SUPPLIED section for completed listing ) : APOTEX CORP .
NDC 60505 - 3438 - 3 SELEGILINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS USP 5 mg Rx Only 60 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ]
