1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAROSPIR ( spironolactone ) is indicated in the management of : CAROSPIR is an antagonist of aldosterone indicated for : • the treatment of NYHA Class III - IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival , manage edema , and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1 . 1 ) • use as an add - on therapy for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 . 2 ) • the management of edema in adult cirrhotic patients when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restrictions ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Heart Failure CAROSPIR is indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III - IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival , manage edema , and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure .
CAROSPIR is usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies .
1 . 2 Hypertension CAROSPIR is indicated as an add - on therapy for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure in adult patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
1 . 3 Edema caused by Cirrhosis CAROSPIR is indicated for the management of edema in adult cirrhotic patients when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • CAROSPIR is not therapeutically equivalent to Aldactone ( 2 . 1 ) • Heart Failure : Initiate treatment at 20 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • Hypertension : Initiate treatment at 20 to 75 mg daily in either single or divided doses ( 2 . 3 ) • Edema associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis : Initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly .
The initial recommended daily dose is 75 mg in either single or divided doses ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 General Considerations CAROSPIR is not therapeutically equivalent to Aldactone .
Follow dosing instructions given here .
In patients requiring a dose greater than 100 mg , use another formulation .
Doses of the suspension greater than 100 mg may result in spironolactone concentrations higher than expected [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
CAROSPIR can be taken with or without food , but should be taken consistently with respect to food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Treatment of Heart Failure In patients with serum potassium ≤ 5 . 0 mEq / L and eGFR > 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , initiate treatment at 20 mg ( 4 mL ) once daily .
Patients who tolerate 20 mg ( 4 mL ) once daily may have their dosage increased to 37 . 5 mg ( 7 . 5 mL ) once daily as clinically indicated .
Patients who develop hyperkalemia on 20 mg ( 4 mL ) once daily may have their dosage reduced to 20 mg ( 4 mL ) every other day [ see Warning and Precautions 5 . 1 ) ] .
In patients with an eGFR between 30 and 50 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 , consider initiating treatment at 10 mg ( 2 mL ) because of the risk of hyperkalemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
2 . 3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 20 mg ( 4 mL ) to 75 mg ( 15 mL ) administered in either single or divided doses .
Dosage can be titrated at two - week intervals .
Doses > 75 mg / day generally do not provide additional reductions in blood pressure .
2 . 4 Treatment of Edema associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis In patients with cirrhosis , initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended initial daily dose is 75 mg ( 15 mL ) administered in either single or divided doses .
In patients requiring titration above 100 mg , use another formulation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
When given as the sole agent for diuresis , administer for at least five days before increasing dose to obtain desired effect .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral Suspension : 25 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) ; white to off - white , banana flavored .
Oral suspension , 25 mg / 5 mL 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CAROSPIR is contraindicated for patients with the following conditions : • Hyperkalemia • Addison ’ s disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone CAROSPIR is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ) • Hyperkalemia • Addison ’ s disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hyperkalemia : Monitor serum potassium within one week of initiation and regularly thereafter ( 5 . 1 ) • Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function : Monitor volume status and renal function periodically ( 5 . 2 ) • Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities : Monitor serum electrolytes , uric acid and blood glucose periodically ( 5 . 3 ) • Gynecomastia : CAROSPIR can cause gynecomastia ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hyperkalemia CAROSPIR can cause hyperkalemia .
This risk is increased by impaired renal function or concomitant potassium supplementation , potassium - containing salt substitutes or drugs that increase potassium , such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Closer monitoring may be needed when CAROSPIR is given with other drugs that cause hyperkalemia or in patients with impaired renal function .
If hyperkalemia occurs , decrease the dose or discontinue CAROSPIR and treat hyperkalemia .
5 . 2 Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function Excessive diuresis may cause symptomatic dehydration , hypotension and worsening renal function , particularly in salt - depleted patients or those taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers .
Worsening of renal function can also occur with concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs ( e . g . , aminoglycosides , cisplatin , and NSAIDs ) .
Monitor volume status and renal function periodically .
5 . 3 Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities In addition to causing hyperkalemia , CAROSPIR can cause hyponatremia , hypomagnesemia , hypocalcemia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hyperglycemia .
Asymptomatic hyperuricemia can occur and rarely gout is precipitated .
Monitor serum electrolytes , uric acid and blood glucose periodically .
5 . 4 Gynecomastia CAROSPIR can cause gynecomastia .
In RALES , patients with heart failure treated with a mean dose of 26 mg of spironolactone once daily , about 9 % of the male subjects developed gynecomastia .
The risk of gynecomastia increases in a dose - dependent manner with an onset that varies widely from 1 - 2 months to over a year .
Gynecomastia is usually reversible .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypotension and Worsening Renal Function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Electrolyte and Metabolic Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Gynecomastia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Impaired neurological function / coma in patients with hepatic impairment , cirrhosis and ascites [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of spironolactone were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency , reliably , or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Digestive : Gastric bleeding , ulceration , gastritis , diarrhea and cramping , nausea , vomiting .
Reproductive : Gynecomastia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , decreased libido , inability to achieve or maintain erection , irregular menses or amenorrhea , postmenopausal bleeding , breast nad nipple pain .
Hematologic : Leukopenia ( including agranulocytosis ) , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Fever , urticaria , maculopapular or erythematous cutaneous eruptions , anaphylactic reactions , vasculitis .
Metabolism : Hyperkalemia , electrolyte disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] , hyponatremia , hypovolemia .
Musculoskeletal : Leg cramps .
Nervous system / psychiatric : Lethargy , mental confusion , ataxia , dizziness , headache , drowsiness .
Liver / biliary : A very few cases of mixed cholestatic / hepatocellular toxicity , with one reported fatality , have been reported with spironolactone administration .
Renal : Renal dysfunction ( including renal failure ) .
Skin : Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) , alopecia , pruritis , chloasma .
The most common adverse reaction ( incidence > 5 % ) with CAROSPIR treatment is gynecomastia ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact CMP Pharma at 1 - 844 - 321 - 1443 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents increasing serum potassium : Concomitant administration can lead to hyperkalemia ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Lithium : Increased risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 2 ) • NSAIDs : May reduce the diuretic , natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of CAROSPIR ( 7 . 3 ) • Digoxin : CAROSPIR can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7 . 4 ) • Cholestyramine : Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported with concomitant use ( 7 . 5 ) • Acetylsalicylic Acid ( ASA ) : ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone ( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of CAROSPIR with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia .
In general , discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start CAROSPIR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving CAROSPIR .
Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include : • ACE inhibitors • angiotensin receptor blockers • aldosterone blockers • non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • heparin and low molecular weight heparin • trimethoprim 7 . 2 Lithium Like other diuretics , CAROSPIR reduces the renal clearance of lithium , thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity .
Monitor lithium levels periodically when CAROSPIR is coadministered [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) In some patients , the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effect of loop , potassium - sparing , and thiazide diuretics .
Therefore , when CAROSPIR and NSAIDs are used concomitantly , monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 4 Digoxin Spironolactone and its metabolites interfere with radioimmunoassays for digoxin and increase the apparent exposure to digoxin .
It is unknown to what extent , if any , spironolactone may increase actual digoxin exposure .
In patients taking concomitant digoxin , use an assay that does not interact with spironolactone .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 5 Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine .
7 . 6 Acetylsalicylic Acid Acetylsalicylic acid may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone .
Therefore , when CAROSPIR and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly , CAROSPIR may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy ; Based on animal data , spironolactone may affect sex differentiation of the male during embryogenesis ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on mechanism of action and findings in animal studies , spironolactone may affect sex differentiation of the male during embryogenesis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] ..
Rat embryofetal studies report feminization of male fetuses and endocrine dysfunction in females exposed to spironolactone in utero .
Limited available data from published case reports and case series did not demonstrate an association of major malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with spironolactone .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with heart failure , cirrhosis and poorly controlled hypertension during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Because of the potential risk to the male fetus due to anti - androgenic properties of spironolactone and animal data , avoid spironolactone in pregnant women or advise a pregnant woman of the potential risk to a male fetus .
The estimated background risk of major congenital anomalies and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major congenital anomalies and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Pregnant women with congestive heart failure are at increased risk for preterm birth .
Stroke volume and heart rate increase during pregnancy , increasing cardiac output , especially during the first trimester .
Clinical classification of heart disease may worsen with pregnancy and lead to maternal death .
Closely monitor pregnant patients for destabilization of their heart failure .
Pregnant women with symptomatic cirrhosis generally have poor outcomes including hepatic failure , variceal hemorrhage , preterm delivery , fetal growth restriction and maternal death .
Outcomes are worse with coexisting esophageal varices .
Pregnant women with cirrhosis of the liver should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Data Animal Data Teratology studies with spironolactone have been carried out in mice and rabbits at doses of up to 20 mg / kg / day .
On a body surface area basis , this dose in the mouse is substantially below the maximum recommended human dose and , in the rabbit , approximates the maximum recommended human dose .
No teratogenic or other embryo toxic effects were observed in mice , but the 20 mg / kg dose caused an increased rate of resorption and a lower number of live fetuses in rabbits .
Because of its antiandrogenic activity and the requirement of testosterone for male morphogenesis , CAROSPIR may have the potential for adversely affecting sex differentiation of the male during embryogenesis .
When administered to rats at 200 mg / kg / day , a dose 10 times the human dose of 200 mg / day , when based on body surface area , between gestation days 13 and 21 ( late embryogenesis and fetal development ) , feminization of male fetuses was observed .
Offspring exposed during late pregnancy to 50 and 100 mg / kg / day doses of spironolactone exhibited changes in the reproductive tract including dose - dependent decreases in weights of the ventral prostate and seminal vesicle in males , ovaries and uteri that were enlarged in females , and other indications of endocrine dysfunction , that persisted into adulthood .
Spironolactone ( CAROSPIR ) has known endocrine effects in animals including progestational and antiandrogenic effects .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Spironolactone is not present in breastmilk ; however , limited data from a lactating woman at 17 days postpartum reports the presence of the active metabolite , canrenone , in human breast milk in low amounts that are expected to be clinically inconsequential .
In this case , there were no adverse effects reported for the breastfed infant after short term exposure to spironolactone ; however , long term effects on a breastfed infant are unknown .
There are no data on spironolactone effects on milk production .
Consider the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding along with the mother ’ s clinical need for spironolactone and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from spironolactone or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use CAROSPIR is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Use in Renal Impairment CAROSPIR is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Patients with renal impairment are at increased risk of hyperkalemia .
Monitor potassium closely .
8 . 7 Use in Hepatic Impairment CAROSPIR can cause sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance which may precipitate impaired neurological function , worsening hepatic encephalopathy and coma in patients with hepatic disease with cirrhosis and ascites .
In these patients , initiate CAROSPIR in the hospital [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Clearance of spironolactone and its metabolites is reduced in patients with cirrhosis .
In patients with cirrhosis , start with lowest initial dose and titrate slowly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The oral LD50 of spironolactone is greater than 1000 mg / kg in mice , rats , and rabbits .
Acute overdosage of CAROSPIR may be manifested by drowsiness , mental confusion , maculopapular or erythematous rash , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or diarrhea .
Rarely , instances of hyponatremia , hyperkalemia , or hepatic coma may occur in patients with severe liver disease , but these are unlikely due to acute overdosage .
Hyperkalemia may occur , especially in patients with impaired renal function .
Treatment : Induce vomiting or evacuate the stomach by lavage .
There is no specific antidote .
Treatment is supportive to maintain hydration , electrolyte balance , and vital functions .
Patients who have renal impairment may develop hyperkalemia .
In such cases , discontinue CAROSPIR .
11 DESCRIPTION CAROSPIR Oral Suspension contains 25 mg of the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone , 17 - hydroxy - 7α - mercapto - 3 - oxo - 17α - pregn - 4 - ene - 21 - carboxylic acid γ - lactone acetate per 5 mL , which has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Spironolactone is practically insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and freely soluble in benzene and in chloroform .
Inactive ingredients include sorbic acid , potassium sorbate , citric acid anhydrous , sodium citrate dihydrate , simethicone emulsion , saccharin sodium , xanthan gum , Magnasweet 110 , glycerin , banana flavor , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Spironolactone and its active metabolites are specific pharmacologic antagonists of aldosterone , acting primarily through competitive binding of receptors at the aldosterone - dependent sodium - potassium exchange site in the distal convoluted renal tubule .
Spironolactone causes increased amounts of sodium and water to be excreted , while potassium is retained .
Spironolactone acts both as a diuretic and as an antihypertensive drug by this mechanism .
It may be given alone or with other diuretic agents that act more proximally in the renal tubule .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Aldosterone antagonist activity : Increased levels of the mineralocorticoid , aldosterone , are present in primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism .
Edematous states in which secondary aldosteronism is usually involved include congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , and nephrotic syndrome .
By competing with aldosterone for receptor sites , Spironolactone provides effective therapy for the edema and ascites in those conditions .
Spironolactone counteracts secondary aldosteronism induced by the volume depletion and associated sodium loss caused by active diuretic therapy .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics For an equivalent dose , CAROSPIR results in 15 to 37 % higher serum concentration compared to Aldactone tablets .
Information about the dose proportionality of spironolactone tablets is limited and , based on the results of studies comparing the suspension to tablets , doses of suspension higher than 100 mg might result in spironolactone concentrations that could be higher than expected .
Absorption The peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of spironolactone is reached 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 hours after dosing in healthy volunteers ; for the active metabolite canrenone , the Cmax is reached around 2 . 5 to 5 hours after dosing .
Effect of food : A high fat and high calorie meal ( 57 % of the ~ 1000 kcal of the meal were from fat ) increased the bioavailability of spironolactone ( as measured by AUC ) by approximately 90 % .
Patients should establish a routine pattern for taking CAROSPIR with regard to meals [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Spironolactone and its metabolites are more than 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
Elimination The half - life of spironolactone is approximately 1 - 2 hour , and the half - life of canrenone , 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( TMS ) , and 6 - ß - hydroxy - 7 - α - ( thiomethyl ) spirolactone ( HTMS ) ranged from 10 to 35 hours .
Metabolism : Spironolactone is rapidly and extensively metabolized .
Metabolites can be divided into two main categories : those in which sulfur of the parent molecule is removed ( e . g . , canrenone ) and those in which the sulfur is retained ( e . g . , TMS and HTMS ) .
In humans , the potencies of TMS and 7 - α - thiospirolactone in reversing the effects of the synthetic mineralocorticoid , fludrocortisone , on urinary electrolyte composition were approximately a third relative to spironolactone .
However , since the serum concentrations of these steroids were not determined , their incomplete absorption and / or first - pass metabolism could not be ruled out as a reason for their reduced in vivo activities .
Excretion : The metabolites are excreted primarily in the urine and secondarily in bile .
Specific Populations The impact of age , sex , race / ethnicity , and renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of spironolactone have not been specifically studied .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : The terminal half - life of spironolactone has been reported to be increased in patients with cirrhotic ascites [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies : Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium : Concomitant administration of CAROSPIR with potassium supplementation , salt substitutes containing potassium , a diet rich in potassium , or drugs that can increase potassium , including ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II antagonists , non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , heparin and low molecular weight heparin , may lead to severe hyperkalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Lithium : CAROSPIR reduces the renal clearance of lithium , inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : In some patients , the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effect of loop , potassium - sparing , and thiazide diuretics [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Acetylsalicylic acid : A single dose of 600 mg of acetylsalicylic acid inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone , which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone , causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Orally administered spironolactone has been shown to be a tumorigen in dietary administration studies performed in rats , with its proliferative effects manifested on endocrine organs and the liver .
In an 18 - month study using doses of about 50 , 150 , and 500 mg / kg / day , there were statistically significant increases in benign adenomas of the thyroid and testes and , in male rats , a dose - related increase in proliferative changes in the liver ( including hepatocytomegaly and hyperplastic nodules ) .
In a 24 - month study in which the same strain of rat was administered doses of about 10 , 30 , 100 , and 150 mg spironolactone / kg / day , the range of proliferative effects included significant increases in hepatocellular adenomas and testicular interstitial cell tumors in males , and significant increases in thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in both sexes .
There was also a statistically significant , but not dose - related , increase in benign uterine endometrial stromal polyps in females .
No increased tumors were seen at doses of 100 mg / kg / day .
This dose represents about 5 - times the human recommended daily dose of 200 mg / day , when based on body surface area .
Mutagenesis Neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate produced mutagenic effects in tests using bacteria or yeast .
In the absence of metabolic activation , neither spironolactone nor potassium canrenoate has been shown to be mutagenic in mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , Spironolactone has been reported to be negative in some mammalian mutagenicity tests in vitro and inconclusive ( but slightly positive ) for mutagenicity in other mammalian tests in vitro .
In the presence of metabolic activation , potassium canrenoate has been reported to test positive for mutagenicity in some mammalian tests in vitro , inconclusive in others , and negative in still others .
Impairment of Fertility In a three - litter reproduction study in which female rats received dietary doses of 15 and 50 mg spironolactone / kg / day , there were no effects on mating and fertility , but there was a small increase in incidence of stillborn pups at 50 mg / kg / day .
When injected into female rats ( 100 mg / kg / day for 7 days , i . p . ) , spironolactone was found to increase the length of the estrous cycle by prolonging diestrus during treatment and inducing constant diestrus during a two - week post - treatment observation period .
These effects were associated with retarded ovarian follicle development and a reduction in circulating estrogen levels , which would be expected to impair mating , fertility , and fecundity .
Spironolactone ( 100 mg / kg / day ) , administered i . p . to female mice during a two - week cohabitation period with untreated males , decreased the number of mated mice that conceived ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of ovulation ) and decreased the number of implanted embryos in those that became pregnant ( effect shown to be caused by an inhibition of implantation ) , and at 200 mg / kg , also increased the latency period to mating .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Heart failure The Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study ( RALES ) was a placebo - controlled , double - blind study of the effect of spironolactone on mortality in patients with highly symptomatic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction .
To be eligible to participate , patients had to have an ejection fraction of ≤ 35 % , NYHA Class III - IV symptoms , and a history of NYHA class IV symptoms within the last 6 months before enrollment .
Patients with a baseline serum creatinine of > 2 . 5 mg / dL or a recent increase of 25 % or with a baseline serum potassium of > 5 . 0 mEq / L were excluded .
Follow - up visits and laboratory measurements ( including serum potassium and creatinine ) were performed every four weeks for the first 12 weeks , then every 3 months for the first year , and then every 6 months thereafter .
The RALES study was conducted with a formulation of spironolactone that is not therapeutically equivalent to CAROSPIR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The initial dose of spironolactone was 25 mg once daily .
Patients who were intolerant of the initial dosage regimen had their dose decreased to one 25 mg tablet every other day at one to four weeks .
Patients who were tolerant of one tablet daily at 8 weeks could have had their dose increased 50 mg daily at the discretion of the investigator .
The mean daily dose at study end for the patients randomized to spironolactone was 26 mg .
1663 patients were randomized 1 : 1 to spironolactone or placebo .
87 % of patients were white , 7 % black , and 2 % Asian .
73 % were male and median age was 67 .
The median ejection fraction was 26 % .
70 % were NYHA class III and 29 % class IV .
The etiology of heart failure was ischemic in 55 % , and non - ischemic in 45 % .
There was a history of myocardial infarction in 28 % , of hypertension in 24 % , and of diabetes in 22 % .
The median baseline serum creatinine was 1 . 2 mg / dL and the median baseline creatinine clearance was 57 mL / min .
At baseline , 100 % of patients were taking loop diuretic and 95 % were taking an ACE inhibitor .
Other medications used at any time during the study included digoxin ( 78 % ) , anticoagulants ( 58 % ) , aspirin ( 43 % ) , and beta - blockers ( 15 % ) .
The primary endpoint for RALES was time to all - cause mortality .
RALES was terminated early because of significant mortality benefit demonstrated during a planned interim analysis .
Compared to placebo , spironolactone reduced the risk of death by 30 % ( p < 0 . 001 ; 95 % confidence interval 18 % to 40 % ) .
Spironolactone also reduced the risk of hospitalization for cardiac causes ( defined as worsening heart failure , angina , ventricular arrhythmias , or myocardial infarction ) by 30 % ( p < 0 . 001 95 % confidence interval 18 % to 41 % ) .
The survival curves by treatment group are shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 .
Survival by Treatment Group in RALES [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mortality hazard ratios for subgroups were studied .
The favorable effect of spironolactone on mortality appeared similar for both genders and all age groups except patients younger than 55 .
There were too few non - whites in RALES to evaluate if the effects differ by race .
Spironolactone ’ s benefit appeared greater in patients with low baseline serum potassium levels and less in patients with ejection fractions < 0 . 2 .
These subgroup analyses must be interpreted cautiously .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Hypertension Studies of the treatment of hypertension were conducted with a formulation of spironolactone that is not therapeutically equivalent to CAROSPIR [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In a study in 24 patients with essential hypertension , of which only eight completed study assessments , the average BP systolic lowering was 10 mmHg and 20 mmHg for the 25 mg and 100 mg doses of spironolactone , respectively .
Doses > 100 mg / day generally do not provide additional reductions in blood pressure .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING CAROSPIR ( spironolactone ) Oral Suspension 25 mg / 5 mL is a white to off - white , opaque , banana - flavored suspension .
It is available in a 118 mL bottle ( NDC 46287 - 020 - 04 ) and a 473 mL bottle ( NDC 46287 - 020 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Shake well before use .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients to take CAROSPIR consistently with respect to food .
• Patients who receive CAROSPIR should avoid potassium supplements and foods containing high levels of potassium , including salt substitutes .
• Pregnancy : Advise a pregnant woman of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their prescriber of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
DISTRIBUTED BY : ATLANTIC BIOLOGICALS CORP .
20101 N . E 16 th PLACE MIAMI , FL 33179 NDC 17856 - 0120 - 1 CaroSpir Spironolactone Oral Suspension 2 . 5 mL Cups 72 For Oral Use Only Shake well before use Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
