1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RAYALDEE is a vitamin D3 analog indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in adult patients with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels less than 30 ng / mL .
Limitations of Use RAYALDEE is not indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with stage 5 chronic kidney disease or in patients with end - stage renal disease on dialysis .
RAYALDEE is a vitamin D3 analog indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in adults with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels less than 30 ng / mL .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : RAYALDEE is not indicated in patients with stage 5 chronic kidney disease or end - stage renal disease on dialysis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • The initial dose of RAYALDEE is 30 mcg administered orally once daily at bedtime .
Serum calcium should be below 9 . 8 mg / dL before initiating treatment .
( 2 ) • • Monitor serum calcium , phosphorus , 25 - hydroxyvitamin D and intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) 3 months after starting therapy or changing dose .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) • • Increase the dose to 60 mcg once daily after 3 months if intact PTH is above the treatment goal .
Ensure serum calcium is below 9 . 8 mg / dL , phosphorus is below 5 . 5 mg / dL and 25 - hydroxyvitamin D is below 100 ng / mL before increasing the dose .
( 2 . 2 ) • • Suspend dosing if intact PTH is persistently abnormally low , serum calcium is consistently above the normal range or serum 25 - hydroxyvitamin D is consistently above 100 ng / mL .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • • Ensure serum calcium is below 9 . 8 mg / dL before initiating treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • Instruct patients to swallow RAYALDEE capsules whole .
• • Instruct patients to skip a missed dose and to resume taking the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time .
Do not administer an extra dose .
2 . 2 Starting Dose and Dose Titration • • The initial dose of RAYALDEE is 30 mcg administered orally once daily at bedtime .
• • The maintenance dose of RAYALDEE should target serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels between 30 and 100 ng / mL , intact parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels within the desired therapeutic range , serum calcium ( corrected for low albumin ) within the normal range and serum phosphorus below 5 . 5 mg / dL .
• • Monitor serum calcium , serum phosphorus , serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D and intact PTH levels at a minimum of 3 months after initiation of therapy or dose adjustment , and subsequently at least every 6 to 12 months .
• • Increase the dose to 60 mcg orally once daily at bedtime after approximately 3 months , if intact PTH remains above the desired therapeutic range .
Prior to raising the dose , ensure serum calcium is below 9 . 8 mg / dL , serum phosphorus is below 5 . 5 mg / dL and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D is below 100 ng / mL .
• • Suspend dosing if intact PTH is persistently and abnormally low to reduce the risk of adynamic bone disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , if serum calcium is consistently above the normal range to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , or if serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D is consistently above 100 ng / mL .
Restart at a reduced dose after these laboratory values have normalized .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS RAYALDEE 30 mcg extended - release capsules are blue oval soft capsules labeled with “ O ” in white ink .
Extended - release 30 mcg capsules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypercalcemia : Excessive administration of vitamin D compounds , including RAYALDEE , can cause hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria .
Severe hypercalcemia due to substantial overdosage of vitamin D and its metabolites may require emergency attention .
Patients should be informed about the symptoms of elevated calcium .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Digitalis toxicity : Potentiated by hypercalcemia of any cause .
Monitor serum calcium and signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity more frequently when initiating or adjusting the dose of RAYALDEE .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Adynamic Bone Disease : Monitor for abnormally low levels of intact PTH levels when using RAYALDEE , and adjust dose if needed .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypercalcemia Hypercalcemia may occur during RAYALDEE treatment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Acute hypercalcemia may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and seizures and may potentiate the effect of digitalis on the heart [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Chronic hypercalcemia can lead to generalized vascular calcification and other soft - tissue calcification .
Severe hypercalcemia may require emergency attention .
Hypercalcemia may be exacerbated by concomitant administration of high doses of calcium containing preparations , thiazide diuretics , or other vitamin D compounds .
In addition , high intake of calcium and phosphate concomitantly with vitamin D compounds may lead to hypercalciuria and hyperphosphatemia .
In these circumstances , frequent serum calcium monitoring and RAYALDEE dose adjustments may be required .
Patients with a history of hypercalcemia prior to initiating therapy with RAYALDEE should be monitored more frequently for possible hypercalcemia during therapy .
Patients should be informed about the symptoms of elevated serum calcium , which include feeling tired , difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination , and weight loss .
5 . 2 Digitalis Toxicity Hypercalcemia of any cause , including RAYALDEE [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , increases the risk of digitalis toxicity .
In patients using RAYALDEE concomitantly with digitalis compounds , monitor both serum calcium and patients for signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity and increase the frequency of monitoring when initiating or adjusting the dose of RAYALDEE [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Adynamic Bone Disease Adynamic bone disease with subsequent increased risk of fractures may develop if intact PTH levels are suppressed by RAYALDEE to abnormally low levels .
Monitor intact PTH levels and adjust RAYALDEE dose , if needed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • • Hypercalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Adynamic Bone Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % and more frequent than placebo ) were anemia , nasopharyngitis , increased blood creatinine , dyspnea , cough , congestive heart failure and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact OPKO Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 844 - 729 - 2539 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The data in Table 1 are derived from two pivotal studies described below [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
These data reflect exposure of 285 subjects to RAYALDEE 30 or 60 mcg daily for up to 6 months ( mean 24 weeks , range 1 to 31 weeks ) .
The mean age of the study population was 66 years old ( range 25 - 85 years ) .
Half of the subjects were male , 65 % were White , and 32 % were African - American or Black .
At baseline , subjects had secondary hyperparathyroidism , stage 3 ( 52 % ) or 4 ( 48 % ) chronic kidney disease without macroalbuminuria and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels less than 30 ng / mL .
The most common causes of chronic kidney disease were diabetes and hypertension and the mean estimated GFR at baseline was 31 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
At baseline , mean plasma intact PTH was 148 pg / mL , mean serum calcium was 9 . 2 mg / dL , mean serum phosphorus was 3 . 7 mg / dL and mean serum 25 - hydroxyvitamin D was 20 ng / mL .
Table 1 shows common adverse reactions associated with the use of RAYALDEE in the pooled placebo - controlled trials .
These adverse reactions were not present at baseline , occurred more commonly on RAYALDEE than on placebo , and occurred in at least 1 . 4 % of patients treated with RAYALDEE .
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Reactions in Placebo - controlled Trials Reported in ≥ 1 . 4 % of RAYALDEE - Treated SubjectsAdverse Reaction Placebo N = 144 RAYALDEE N = 285 % % Anemia 3 . 5 4 . 9 Nasopharyngitis 2 . 8 4 . 9 Blood creatinine increased 1 . 4 4 . 9 Dyspnea 2 . 8 4 . 2 Cough 2 . 1 3 . 5 Cardiac failure congestive 0 . 7 3 . 5 Constipation 2 . 8 3 . 2 Bronchitis 0 . 7 2 . 8 Hyperkalemia 0 . 7 2 . 5 Osteoarthritis 0 . 7 2 . 1 Hyperuricemia 0 . 7 1 . 8 Contusion 0 . 0 1 . 8 Pneumonia 0 . 7 1 . 4 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 0 . 0 1 . 4 Increase in Serum Calcium Patients randomized to RAYALDEE experienced a greater mean ( SE ) increase in serum calcium ( P < 0 . 001 ) than patients randomized to placebo [ i . e . , 0 . 2 ( 0 . 02 ) mg / dL on RAYALDEE versus 0 . 1 ( 0 . 03 ) mg / dL on placebo from baseline to trial end ] .
Six subjects ( 2 % ) in the RAYALDEE treatment group and no subjects ( 0 % ) in the placebo group required dose reductions for protocol - defined hypercalcemia ( two consecutive serum calcium values greater than 10 . 3 mg / dL ) .
A total of 4 . 2 % of RAYALDEE treated subjects and 2 . 1 % of placebo treated subjects experienced at least one elevation in serum calcium above the upper limit of normal ( 10 . 5 mg / dL ) .
Increase in Serum Phosphorus Patients randomized to RAYALDEE experienced a greater mean ( SE ) increase in serum phosphorus than patients randomized to placebo [ i . e . , 0 . 2 ( 0 . 03 ) mg / dL on RAYALDEE versus 0 . 1 ( 0 . 04 ) mg / dL on placebo from baseline to trial end ] .
One subject ( 0 . 4 % ) in the RAYALDEE treatment group met protocol - defined hyperphosphatemia ( two consecutive serum phosphorus values greater than 5 . 5 mg / dL deemed to be study drug related ) compared to no subjects in the placebo group .
A total of 45 % of RAYALDEE treated subjects and 44 % of placebo treated subjects experienced at least one elevation in serum phosphorus above the upper limit of normal ( 4 . 5 mg / dL ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Co - administration of cytochrome P450 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole , may alter serum levels of calcifediol .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Co - administration of thiazides may cause hypercalcemia .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Cholestyramine may impair the absorption of calcifediol .
( 7 . 3 ) • • The half - life of calcifediol is reduced by drugs stimulating microsomal hydroxylation , such as phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A Inhibitors Cytochrome P450 inhibitors , such as ketoconazole , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , ritonavir , saquinavir , telithromycin or voriconazole , may inhibit enzymes involved in vitamin D metabolism ( CYP24A1 and CYP27B1 ) , and may alter serum levels of calcifediol .
Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required , and serum 25 - hydroxyvitamin D , intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor .
7 . 2 Thiazides Thiazides are known to induce hypercalcemia by reducing excretion of calcium in the urine .
Concomitant administration of thiazides with RAYALDEE may cause hypercalcemia .
Patients may require more frequent serum calcium monitoring in this setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 3 Cholestyramine Cholestyramine has been reported to reduce intestinal absorption of fat - soluble vitamins and may impair the absorption of calcifediol , the active ingredient in RAYALDEE .
Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required , and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D , intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with cholestyramine .
7 . 4 Other Agents Phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants or other compounds that stimulate microsomal hydroxylation reduce the half - life of calcifediol , the active ingredient in RAYALDEE .
Dose adjustment of RAYALDEE may be required , and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D , intact PTH and serum calcium concentrations should be closely monitored if a patient initiates or discontinues therapy with phenobarbital or other anticonvulsants .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Monitor infants exposed to RAYALDEE through breast milk for seizures , vomiting , constipation and weight loss .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no human data with calcifediol use in pregnant women to identify a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with chronic kidney disease in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , calcifediol increased skeletal and soft tissue malformation when rabbits were given once daily oral doses representing ≥ 6 times the human dose of 60 mcg / day , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) , during the period of organogenesis .
No adverse developmental effects were observed in rats given up to 15 times the human dose , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) , during organogenesis .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Chronic kidney disease in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for hypertension , miscarriage , preterm labor , and preeclampsia .
Chronic kidney disease increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) , prematurity , polyhydramnios , still birth , and low birth weight .
Data Animal Data Calcifediol was given orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis ( in rats , from gestation day [ GD ] 6 to 15 ; in rabbits , from GD 6 to 18 ) .
Rats were given 0 , 12 , 40 , 60 mcg / kg / day ; and rabbits were given 0 , 5 , 25 , 50 mcg / kg / day , representing up to 15 and 13 times , respectively , a human dose of 60 mcg / kg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
In rats , no adverse developmental effects were observed at calcifediol doses up to 60 mcg / kg / day .
In rabbits , increased incidences of domed skull , enlarged atrium of the heart , and dilatation of pulmonary artery , were observed at doses of 25 and 50 mcg / kg / day ( representing 6 and 13 times the human dose of 60 mcg / day , respectively , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Rats were given calcifediol during the pre / postnatal period ( GD 15 to weaning ) .
No adverse effects on gestation , parturition , lactation or survival of offspring were observed at calcifediol doses up to 60 mcg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of calcifediol in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Infants potentially exposed to calcifediol through breast milk should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for RAYALDEE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from RAYALDEE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor infants exposed to calcifediol through breast milk for signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia , including seizures , vomiting , constipation and weight loss .
Consider monitoring of serum calcium in the infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of RAYALDEE have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in phase 3 placebo - controlled clinical studies of RAYALDEE , 63 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 22 % were ≥ 75 years of age .
No overall differences in the safety or efficacy of RAYALDEE were observed between subjects older than 65 years and younger subjects .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No difference in efficacy was observed between patients with stage 3 chronic kidney disease or those with stage 4 disease in subgroup analysis .
Safety outcomes were similar in these subgroups .
The safety and efficacy of RAYALDEE in the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with stage 2 or stage 5 chronic kidney disease and patients with end - stage renal disease on dialysis have not been established [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive administration of RAYALDEE can cause hypercalciuria , hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatemia , or oversuppression of intact PTH .
Common symptoms of vitamin D overdosage may include constipation , decreased appetite , dehydration , fatigue , irritability , muscle weakness , or vomiting .
Treatment of acute accidental overdosage with RAYALDEE should consist of general supportive measures .
If the overdosage is discovered within a short time , induce emesis or perform gastric lavage to prevent further absorption .
Obtain serial serum and urine calcium measurements , and assess any electrocardiographic abnormalities due to hypercalcemia .
Discontinue supplemental calcium .
Treat with standard medical care if persistent and markedly elevated serum calcium levels occur .
Calcifediol is not significantly removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION Calcifediol , USP , the active ingredient in RAYALDEE , is synthetically manufactured as calcifediol monohydrate .
Calcifediol is also known as calcidiol , 25 - hydroxycholecalciferol or 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 .
Calcifediol monohydrate is a white crystalline powder , has a calculated molecular weight of 418 . 65 and is soluble in alcohol and fatty oils but practically insoluble in water .
Chemically , calcifediol monohydrate is ( 3β , 5 Z , 7 E ) - 9 , 10 - secocholesta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) - triene - 3 , 25 - diol monohydrate and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] RAYALDEE is formulated as extended - release capsules containing 30 mcg of calcifediol .
Each capsule contains the following excipients : mineral oil , monoglycerides and diglycerides , paraffin , hypromellose , lauroyl polyoxylglycerides , dehydrated alcohol and butylated hydroxytoluene .
The capsule shells contain modified starch , carrageenan , sodium phosphate , dibasic , sorbitol sorbitan solution , FD & C Blue # 1 , titanium dioxide and purified water .
Medium chain triglyceride ( fractionated coconut ) oil is used as a lubricant during manufacture , and trace amounts may be present in the final formulation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Calcifediol ( 25 - hydroxyvitamin D3 ) is a prohormone of the active form of vitamin D3 , calcitriol ( 1 , 25 ‑ dihydroxyvitamin D3 ) .
Calcifediol is converted to calcitriol by cytochrome P450 27B1 ( CYP27B1 ) , also called 1 - alpha hydroxylase , primarily in the kidney .
Calcitriol binds to the vitamin D receptor in target tissues and activates vitamin D responsive pathways that result in increased intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus and reduced parathyroid hormone synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In repeat - dose clinical studies with RAYALDEE , increased levels of serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D were associated with corresponding increases in serum total 1 , 25 ‑ dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations and reductions in circulating plasma intact PTH observed within the first two weeks of RAYALDEE treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No food effect study was conducted with 30 mcg and 60 mcg doses of RAYALDEE .
However , a food effect study with a supratherapeutic dose of 450 mcg in healthy subjects showed an approximately 5 - fold increase in maximum serum calcifediol concentration ( Cmax ) and a 3 . 5 - fold increase in AUC0 - t when RAYALDEE was administered with a high fat , high calorie meal compared to fasting .
Exposure to calcifediol increased proportionally over the dose range of 30 to 90 mcg following repeated daily administration of RAYALDEE at bedtime to subjects with secondary hyperparathyroidism , chronic kidney disease and vitamin D insufficiency .
Steady - state levels of serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D are reached after approximately 3 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Distribution Calcifediol is extensively bound to plasma proteins ( > 98 % ) .
The mean apparent volume of distribution is 8 . 8 L in healthy subjects following a single oral dose of RAYALDEE , and 30 . 1 L in subjects with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease following repeated dosing .
Elimination The mean elimination half - life of calcifediol is approximately 11 days in healthy individuals following a single dose of RAYALDEE , and approximately 25 days in patients with stage 3 or stage 4 chronic kidney disease following repeated once daily dosing .
Metabolism Production of calcitriol from calcifediol is catalyzed by the 1 - alpha - hydroxylase enzyme , CYP27B1 , located in the kidney and other tissues .
CYP24A1 , located in all vitamin D - responsive tissues , catabolizes both calcifediol and calcitriol to inactive metabolites .
Excretion Excretion of calcifediol occurs primarily through the biliary fecal route .
Specific Populations Age , Gender and Race Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis , age , gender and race had no meaningful impact on steady - state concentrations of calcifediol following RAYALDEE administration .
Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of RAYALDEE have not been investigated in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment Based on the population pharmacokinetics analysis , there was no meaningful difference in calcifediol steady - state concentrations following repeated RAYALDEE administration in patients with stage 3 or stage 4 chronic kidney disease .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No neoplastic changes attributable to calcifediol were observed at subcutaneous doses of 3 , 10 and 33 mcg / kg / day in a 26 - week rasH2 transgenic mouse study .
In vitro or in vivo mutagenicity studies have not been performed with RAYALDEE .
Calcifediol has not been shown to have significant effects on fertility in rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of RAYALDEE were evaluated in two identical multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trials in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism , stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease and serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels between 10 and 30 ng / mL .
Subjects were stratified by chronic kidney disease stage and randomized in a 2 : 1 ratio to receive RAYALDEE or a matching placebo at bedtime over 26 weeks .
The dose of RAYALDEE was 30 mcg once daily for the first 12 weeks and either 30 or 60 mcg once daily for the last 14 weeks .
The dose was increased to 60 mcg at the start of week 13 if the plasma intact PTH level was greater than 70 pg / mL , the serum 25 - hydroxyvitamin D level was less than 65 ng / mL and the serum calcium level was less than 9 . 8 mg / dL .
A total of 213 subjects were randomized in one trial ( 72 received placebo and 141 received RAYALDEE ) , and 216 subjects were randomized in the second trial ( 72 received placebo and 144 received RAYALDEE ) .
The subjects ’ mean age was 66 years ( range 25 - 85 ) , 50 % were male , 65 % White , 32 % African - American or Black and 3 % Other .
At baseline , subjects had secondary hyperparathyroidism , and stage 3 ( 52 % ) or stage 4 ( 48 % ) chronic kidney disease without macroalbuminuria .
The most common causes of chronic kidney disease were diabetes and hypertension and the mean estimated GFR was 31 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 .
Mean baseline intact PTH was 130 pg / mL for subjects with stage 3 disease ( n = 222 ) and 166 pg / mL for subjects with stage 4 disease ( n = 207 ) .
Mean serum calcium was 9 . 2 mg / dL , mean serum phosphorus was 3 . 7 mg / dL and mean serum 25 - hydroxyvitamin D was 20 ng / mL .
Of the 429 subjects randomized , 354 ( 83 % ) completed the studies .
The primary analysis compared the proportion of individuals who experienced an at least 30 % reduction in plasma intact PTH from baseline to end of trial ( average of weeks 20 , 22 , 24 and 26 ) .
A larger proportion of patients randomized to RAYALDEE experienced an at least 30 % reduction in plasma intact PTH from baseline compared to placebo in both trials [ 33 % versus 8 % in the first trial ( P < 0 . 001 ) and 34 % versus 7 % in the second trial ( P < 0 . 001 ) ] .
A description of mean ( SE ) percent change in plasma intact PTH from baseline across study visits in the two trials combined is shown in Figure 1 .
Serum total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels increased to at least 30 ng / mL in 80 % and 83 % of subjects treated with RAYALDEE vs . 3 % and 7 % of subjects treated with placebo ( P < 0 . 001 ) in the two studies , respectively .
Average steady - state 25 - hydroxyvitamin D levels were 50 and 56 ng / mL for subjects receiving 30 mcg daily , and 69 and 67 ng / mL for subjects receiving 60 mcg daily , in the first and second studies , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The Per Protocol ( PP ) population consisted of all subjects with at least 2 intact PTH values in the calculated baseline and efficacy assessment period ( EAP ) values and who did not have a major protocol deviation during the treatment period of the study .
The PP population comprised 83 % of randomized subjects .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING RAYALDEE is supplied as 30 mcg calcifediol in blue , oval extended - release capsules , imprinted O : Bottles of 30 [ NDC 70301 - 1001 - 1 ] Bottles of 60 [ NDC 70301 - 1001 - 2 ] Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • • Tell patients to take RAYALDEE at bedtime and to swallow the capsules whole .
• • Inform patients if they miss a dose , to take RAYALDEE at the next scheduled time .
Do not take an extra dose to make up for the missed dose .
• • Inform patients that they will need routine monitoring of laboratory parameters such as calcium , iPTH and total 25 - hydroxyvitamin D while taking RAYALDEE .
• • Advise patients to contact a health care provider if they develop symptoms of elevated calcium ( e . g . , feeling tired , having difficulty thinking clearly , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , constipation , increased thirst , increased urination or weight loss ) .
• • Advise patients to inform their physician of all use of medications , including prescription and nonprescription drugs , supplements and herbal preparations , and of any changes in medical condition .
Patients should also be advised to inform their physicians , when receiving a newly prescribed medication , that they are taking RAYALDEE .
• • Inform lactating women about the need to monitor infants exposed to RAYALDEE through breast milk for signs of hypercalcemia to include seizures , vomiting , constipation and weight loss [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
RAYALDEE ® is a registered trademark of EirGen Pharma Ltd .
Patent : https : / / www . opko . com / what - we - do / our - research / patents Manufactured for : OPKO Pharmaceuticals , LLC 4400 Biscayne Blvd .
Miami FL 33137 USA © 2021 OPKO Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 70301 - 1001 - 1 - 30 - count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70301 - 1001 - 1 OPKO Rayaldee ® ( calcifediol ) Extended - Release Capsules 30 mcg Rx only Each capsule contains : 30 mcg calcifediol See package insert for full prescribing information 30 Capsules Manufactured for : OPKO Pharmaceuticals , LLC 4400 Biscayne Blvd Miami FL 33137 Rev . 03 / 21 PC2192 Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) see [ USP controlled room temperature ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
