1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ISTALOL ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
ISTALOL is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent indicated for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop of ISTALOL 0 . 5 % should be administered in the affected eye ( s ) once a day in the AM .
One drop in the affected eye ( s ) once a day in the AM .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Topical ophthalmic solution containing 5 mg / mL timolol ( 6 . 8 mg / mL of timolol maleate ) .
Topical ophthalmic solution containing timolol maleate , 0 . 5 % ( 5 mg / mL ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 4 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) • • Sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular block , overt cardiac failure , cardiogenic shock ( 4 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Asthma , COPD ISTALOL is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma ; a history of bronchial asthma ; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
4 . 2 Sinus Bradycardia , AV Block , Cardiac Failure , Cardiogenic Shock ISTALOL is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia ; second or third degree atrioventricular block ; overt cardiac failure ; cardiogenic shock [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
4 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions ISTALOL is contraindicated in patients who have exhibited a hypersensitivity reaction to any component of this product in the past .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Potentiation of Respiratory Reactions Including Asthma ( 5 . 1 ) • • Cardiac Failure ( 5 . 2 ) • • Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ( 5 . 3 ) • • Increased Reactivity to Allergens ( 5 . 4 ) • • Potentiation of Muscle Weakness ( 5 . 5 ) • • Masking of Hypoglycemic Symptoms in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus ( 5 . 6 ) • • Masking of Thyrotoxicosis ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Potentiation of Respiratory Reactions Including Asthma ISTALOL contains timolol maleate ; and although administered topically , it can be absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition of beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In patients without a history of cardiac failure , continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , ISTALOL should be discontinued [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis , emphysema ) of mild or moderate severity , bronchospastic disease , or a history of bronchospastic disease [ other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma in which ISTALOL is contraindicated ] should , in general , not receive beta - blocking agents , including ISTALOL [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Increased Reactivity to Allergens While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic challenge with such allergens .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic reactions .
5 . 5 Potentiation of Muscle Weakness Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Timolol has been reported rarely to increase muscle weakness in some patients with myasthenia gravis or myasthenic symptoms .
5 . 6 Masking of Hypoglycemic Symptoms in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
5 . 7 Masking of Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents that might precipitate a thyroid storm .
5 . 8 Contamination of Topical Ophthalmic Products After Use There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multidose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 9 Impairment of Beta - adrenergically Mediated Reflexes During Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have experienced protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , some authorities recommend gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists .
5 . 10 Angle - Closure Glaucoma In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This may require constricting the pupil .
Timolol maleate has little or no effect on the pupil .
ISTALOL should not be used alone in the treatment of angle - closure glaucoma .
5 . 11 Cerebrovascular Insufficiency Because of potential effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents on blood pressure and pulse , these agents should be used with caution in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
If signs or symptoms suggesting reduced cerebral blood flow develop following initiation of therapy with ISTALOL , alternative therapy should be considered .
5 . 12 Choroidal Detachment Choroidal detachment after filtration procedures has been reported with the administration of aqueous suppressant therapy ( e . g . , timolol ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been burning and stinging upon instillation in 38 % of patients treated with ISTALOL .
Additional reactions reported with ISTALOL at a frequency of 4 to 10 % include : blurred vision , cataract , conjunctival injection , headache , hypertension , infection , itching and decreased visual acuity .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions have been burning and stinging upon instillation in 38 % of patients treated with ISTALOL .
Additional reactions reported with ISTALOL at a frequency of 4 to 10 % include : blurred vision , cataract , conjunctival injection , headache , hypertension , infection , itching and decreased visual acuity .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported less frequently with ocular administration of this or other timolol maleate formulations .
Timolol ( Ocular Administration ) Body as a Whole : Asthenia / fatigue and chest pain ; Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , arrhythmia , hypotension , syncope , heart block , cerebral vascular accident , cerebral ischemia , cardiac failure , worsening of angina pectoris , palpitation , cardiac arrest , pulmonary edema , edema , claudication , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon and cold hands and feet ; Digestive : Nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and dry mouth ; Immunologic : Systemic lupus erythematosus ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Dizziness , increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis , paresthesia , somnolence , insomnia , nightmares , behavioral changes and psychic disturbances including depression , confusion , hallucinations , anxiety , disorientation , nervousness and memory loss ; Skin : Alopecia and psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis ; Hypersensitivity : Signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions , including angioedema , urticaria , and localized and generalized rash ; Respiratory : Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with pre - existing bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure , dyspnea , nasal congestion , cough and upper respiratory infections ; Endocrine : Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] ; Special Senses : Signs and symptoms of ocular irritation including conjunctivitis , blepharitis , keratitis , ocular pain , discharge ( e . g . , crusting ) , foreign body sensation , itching and tearing , and dry eyes ; ptosis , decreased corneal sensitivity ; cystoid macular edema ; visual disturbances including refractive changes and diplopia ; pseudopemphigoid ; choroidal detachment following filtration surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] ; Urogenital : Retroperitoneal fibrosis , decreased libido , impotence , and Peyronie ’ s disease .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Oral Timolol / Oral Beta - Blockers The following additional adverse effects have been reported in clinical experience with ORAL timolol maleate or other ORAL beta - blocking agents and may be considered potential effects of ophthalmic timolol maleate : Allergic : Erythematous rash , fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm with respiratory distress ; Body as a Whole : Extremity pain , decreased exercise tolerance , weight loss ; Cardiovascular : Worsening of arterial insufficiency , vasodilatation ; Digestive : Gastrointestinal pain , hepatomegaly , vomiting , mesenteric arterial thrombosis , ischemic colitis ; Hematologic : Nonthrombocytopenic purpura ; thrombocytopenic purpura , agranulocytosis ; Endocrine : Hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia ; Skin : Pruritus , skin irritation , increased pigmentation , sweating ; Musculoskeletal : Arthralgia ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , local weakness , diminished concentration , reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia , an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics ; Respiratory : Rales , bronchial obstruction ; Urogenital : Urination difficulties .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Concomitant use with systemic beta - blockers may potentiate systemic beta - blockade .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Oral or intravenous calcium antagonists may cause atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , and hypotension .
( 7 . 2 ) • • Catecholamine - depleting drugs may have additive effects and produce hypotension and / or marked bradycardia .
( 7 . 3 ) • • Digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
( 7 . 4 ) • • Potentiated systemic beta - blockade ( e . g . , decreased heart rate ) has been reported during combined treatment with quinidine and timolol .
( 7 . 5 ) 7 . 1 Beta - Adrenergic Blocking Agents Patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally and ISTALOL should be observed for potential additive effects of beta - blockade , both systemic and on intraocular pressure .
The concomitant use of two topical beta - adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended .
7 . 2 Calcium Antagonists Caution should be used in the co - administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , such as ISTALOL , and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure , and hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , co - administration should be avoided .
7 . 3 Catecholamine - Depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may result in vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
7 . 4 Digitalis and Calcium Antagonists The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
7 . 5 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Potentiated systemic beta - blockade ( e . g . , decreased heart rate ) has been reported during combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors ( e . g . , quinidine ) and timolol .
7 . 6 Clonidine Oral beta - adrenergic blocking agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine .
There have been no reports of exacerbation of rebound hypertension with ophthalmic timolol maleate .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Teratogenicity studies have been performed in animals .
Teratogenicity studies with timolol in mice , rats , and rabbits at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( 7 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) demonstrated no evidence of fetal malformations .
Although delayed fetal ossification was observed at this dose in rats , there were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
Doses of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 142 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were maternotoxic in mice and resulted in an increased number of fetal resorptions .
Increased fetal resorptions were also seen in rabbits at doses of 14 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose , in this case without apparent maternotoxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ISTALOL should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Timolol has been detected in human milk following oral and ophthalmic drug administration .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from ISTALOL in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been reports of inadvertent overdosage with ISTALOL resulting in systemic effects similar to those seen with systemic beta - adrenergic blocking agents such as dizziness , headache , shortness of breath , bradycardia , bronchospasm , and cardiac arrest .
An in vitro hemodialysis study , using 14 C timolol added to human plasma or whole blood , showed that timolol was readily dialyzed from these fluids ; however , a study of patients with renal failure showed that timolol did not dialyze readily .
11 DESCRIPTION ISTALOL ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % is a non - selective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agent .
Its chemical name is ( - ) - 1 - ( tert - butylamino ) - 3 - [ ( 4 - morpholino - 1 , 2 , 5 - thiadiazol - 3 - yl ) oxy ] - 2 - propanol maleate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) .
Timolol maleate possesses an asymmetric carbon atom in its structure and is provided as the levo - isomer .
Its molecular formula is C13H24N4O3S - C4H4O4 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Timolol maleate has a molecular weight of 432 . 49 .
It is a white , odorless , crystalline powder which is soluble in water , methanol , and alcohol .
ISTALOL is stable at room temperature .
ISTALOL ophthalmic solution is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , aqueous solution of timolol maleate in a single strength .
It has a pH of 6 . 5 to 7 . 5 and an osmolality of 275 to 330 mOsm / kg .
Each mL of ISTALOLcontains the active ingredient 5 mg of timolol ( 6 . 8 mg of timolol maleate ) with the inactive ingredients monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate , potassium sorbate 0 . 47 % , sodium chloride , sodium hydroxide , and purified water .
Preservative added : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 05 mg / mL ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Timolol maleate is a beta1 and beta2 ( non - selective ) adrenergic receptor blocking agent that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic , direct myocardial depressant , or local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) activity .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade reduces cardiac output in both healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may inhibit the stimulatory effect of the sympathetic nervous system necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade in the bronchi and bronchioles results in increased airway resistance from unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Such an effect in patients with asthma or other bronchospastic conditions is potentially dangerous .
ISTALOL ophthalmic solution , when applied topically in the eye , has the action of reducing elevated as well as normal intraocular pressure , whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss .
The higher the level of intraocular pressure , the greater the likelihood of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage .
The onset of reduction in intraocular pressure following administration of ISTALOL can usually be detected within one - half hour after a single dose .
The maximum effect usually occurs in one to two hours and significant lowering of intraocular pressure can be maintained for periods as long as 24 hours with a single dose .
Repeated observations over a period of one year indicate that the intraocular pressure lowering effect of ISTALOL is well maintained .
The precise mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of ISTALOLis not clearly established at this time .
Tonography and fluorophotometry studies in man suggest that its predominant action may be related to reduced aqueous formation .
However , in some studies a slight increase in outflow facility was also observed .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In a study of plasma drug concentration in 12 healthy subjects , the systemic exposure to timolol was determined following twice daily administration of ISTALOL ( exaggerated regimen ) for eight days .
With ISTALOL , mean plasma concentrations of timolol were 0 . 68 ng / mL and 0 . 88 ng / mL two hours after the first dose and the dose on the eighth day , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a two - year study of timolol maleate administered orally to rats , there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of adrenal pheochromocytomas in male rats administered 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 42 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Similar differences were not observed in rats administered oral doses equivalent to approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
In a lifetime oral study in mice , there were statistically significant increases in the incidence of benign and malignant pulmonary tumors , benign uterine polyps and mammary adenocarcinomas in female mice at 500 mg / kg / day , ( approximately 71 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) , but not at 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 700 or 7 , 000 , respectively , times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
In a subsequent study in female mice , in which post - mortem examinations were limited to the uterus and the lungs , a statistically significant increase in the incidence of pulmonary tumors was again observed at 500 mg / kg / day .
The increased occurrence of mammary adenocarcinomas was associated with elevations in serum prolactin which occurred in female mice administered oral timolol at 500 mg / kg / day , but not at doses of 5 or 50 mg / kg / day .
An increased incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas in rodents has been associated with administration of several other therapeutic agents that elevate serum prolactin , but no correlation between serum prolactin levels and mammary tumors has been established in humans .
Furthermore , in adult human female subjects who received oral dosages of up to 60 mg of timolol maleate ( the maximum recommended human oral dosage ) , there were no clinically meaningful changes in serum prolactin .
Timolol maleate was devoid of mutagenic potential when tested in vivo ( mouse ) in the micronucleus test and cytogenetic assay ( doses up to 800 mg / kg ) and in vitroin a neoplastic cell transformation assay ( up to 100 mcg / mL ) .
In Ames tests , the highest concentrations of timolol employed , 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 mcg / plate , were associated with statistically significant elevations of revertants observed with tester strain TA100 ( in seven replicate assays ) , but not in the remaining three strains .
In the assays with tester strain TA100 , no consistent dose response relationship was observed , and the ratio of test to control revertants did not reach 2 .
A ratio of 2 is usually considered the criterion for a positive Ames test .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats demonstrated no adverse effect on male or female fertility at doses up to 21 , 000 times the systemic exposure following the maximum recommended human ophthalmic dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a controlled , double - masked , parallel study in 332 patients with untreated intraocular pressures of 22 mm Hg or greater , ISTALOL 0 . 5 % administered once daily ( AM ) was equivalent to timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % administered twice daily .
In both groups , mean intraocular pressure decreased from 25 mm Hg at baseline to 18 mm Hg at peak and 19 mm Hg at trough .
ISTALOL was generally well tolerated , and 3 % of patients had treatment discontinued for adverse events judged related to treatment .
There was a slight decrease in cardiovascular function consistent with known systemic absorption of β - adrenoceptor antagonists .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ISTALOL ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % is supplied in white LDPE bottles with 15 mm PP yellow caps and 15 mm LLDPE white dropper tips as follows : NDC 24208 - 004 - 03 5 mL in 10 mL container NDC 24208 - 004 - 01 2 . 5 mL in 7 . 5 mL container Storage : Store at 15ºC to 25ºC ( 59ºF to 77ºF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients with bronchial asthma , a history of bronchial asthma , severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , sinus bradycardia , second or third degree atrioventricular block , or cardiac failure should be advised not to take this product [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 , 4 . 2 ) ] .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Patients should also be advised that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart .
Patients should be advised that ISTALOL contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of the solution .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following ISTALOL administration .
Distributed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 USA Under License from : Senju Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Osaka , Japan 541 - 0046 ISTALOL is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9733101 ( Folded ) 9733201 ( Flat ) PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 24208 - 004 - 03 Rx only Istalol ® ( timolol maleate ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 5 % For Topical Ophthalmic Use 5 mL Sterile BAUSCH + LOMB Once Daily 9542004 AB44207 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
