1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TAVNEOS is indicated as an adjunctive treatment of adult patients with severe active anti - neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody ( ANCA ) - associated vasculitis ( granulomatosis with polyangiitis [ GPA ] and microscopic polyangiitis [ MPA ] ) in combination with standard therapy including glucocorticoids .
TAVNEOS does not eliminate glucocorticoid use .
TAVNEOS is a complement 5 a receptor ( C5aR ) antagonist indicated as an adjunctive treatment of adult patients with severe active anti - neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody ( ANCA ) - associated vasculitis ( granulomatosis with polyangiitis [ GPA ] and microscopic polyangiitis [ MPA ] ) in combination with standard therapy including glucocorticoids .
TAVNEOS does not eliminate glucocorticoid use .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 30 mg ( three 10 mg capsules twice daily with food ( 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Evaluations Prior to Treatment Initiation Before initiating TAVNEOS , consider performing the following evaluations : • Liver Function Tests : Obtain liver test panel ( serum alanine aminotransferase [ ALT ] , aspartate aminotransferase [ AST ] , alkaline phosphatase , and total bilirubin ) before initiating TAVNEOS .
TAVNEOS is not recommended for use in patients with cirrhosis , especially those with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
• Hepatitis B ( HBV ) Serology : Screen patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc .
For patients with evidence of prior or current HBV infection , consult with a physician with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for HBV antiviral therapy before or during treatment with TAVNEOS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration The recommended dose of TAVNEOS is 30 mg ( three 10 mg capsules ) twice daily , with food .
Advise patients that TAVNEOS capsules should not be crushed , chewed or opened .
If a dose is missed , instruct the patient to wait until the usual scheduled time to take the next regular dose .
Instruct the patient not to double the next dose .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications Due to CYP3A4 Inhibitors Reduce the dosage of TAVNEOS to 30 mg once daily when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules : 10 mg , opaque , yellow and light orange with CCX168 printed in black .
Capsules : 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TAVNEOS is contraindicated in patients with serious hypersensitivity reaction to avacopan or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Serious hypersensitivity to avacopan or to any of the excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hepatotoxicity : Increase in liver function tests occurred in clinical trials .
Obtain liver function tests before initiation of therapy and monitor as clinically indicated .
( 5 . 1 ) • Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions : Cases of angioedema occurred in a clinical trial .
Observe for signs and symptoms of angioedema and manage accordingly .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation : Cases of HBV reactivation occurred in a clinical trial .
Withhold TAVNEOS and institute appropriate anti - infective therapy .
( 5 . 3 ) • Serious Infections : Avoid use of TAVNEOS in patients with active , serious infection , including localized infections .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hepatotoxicity Serious cases of hepatic injury have been observed in patients taking TAVNEOS .
During controlled trials , the TAVNEOS treatment group had a higher incidence of transaminase elevations and hepatobiliary events , including serious and life - threatening events [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Obtain liver test panel ( serum alanine aminotransferase [ ALT ] , aspartate aminotransferase [ AST ] , alkaline phosphatase , and total bilirubin ) before initiating TAVNEOS , every 4 weeks after start of therapy for the first 6 months of treatment and as clinically indicated thereafter .
If a patient receiving treatment with TAVNEOS presents with an elevation in ALT or AST to > 3 times the upper limit of normal , evaluate promptly and consider pausing treatment as clinically indicated .
If AST or ALT is > 5 times the upper limit of normal , or if a patient develops transaminases > 3 times the upper limit of normal with elevation of bilirubin to > 2 times the upper limit of normal , discontinue TAVNEOS until TAVNEOS - induced liver injury is ruled out [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
TAVNEOS is not recommended for patients with active , untreated and / or uncontrolled chronic liver disease ( e . g . , chronic active hepatitis B , untreated hepatitis C , uncontrolled autoimmune hepatitis ) and cirrhosis .
Consider the risk and benefit before administering this drug to a patient with liver disease .
Monitor patients closely for hepatic adverse reactions [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions TAVNEOS may cause angioedema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In clinical trials , two cases of angioedema occurred , including one serious event requiring hospitalization .
If angioedema occurs , discontinue TAVNEOS immediately , provide appropriate therapy , and monitor for airway compromise .
TAVNEOS must not be re - administered unless another cause has been established .
Educate patients on recognizing the signs and symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction and to seek immediate medical care should they develop .
5 . 3 Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation , including life threatening hepatitis B , was observed in the clinical program .
HBV reactivation is defined as an abrupt increase in HBV replication , manifesting as a rapid increase in serum HBV DNA levels or detection of HBsAg , in a person who was previously HBsAg negative and anti - HBc positive .
Reactivation of HBV replication is often followed by hepatitis , i . e . , increase in transaminase levels .
In severe cases , increase in bilirubin levels , liver failure , and death can occur .
Screen patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti - HBc before initiating treatment with TAVNEOS .
For patients who show evidence of prior hepatitis B infection ( HBsAg positive [ regardless of antibody status ] or HBsAg negative but anti - HBc positive ) , consult with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for HBV antiviral therapy before and / or during TAVNEOS treatment .
Monitor patients with evidence of current or prior HBV infection for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis , or HBV reactivation during and for six months following TAVNEOS therapy .
In patients who develop reactivation of HBV while on TAVNEOS , immediately discontinue TAVNEOS and any concomitant therapy associated with HBV reactivation , and institute appropriate treatment .
Insufficient data exist regarding the safety of resuming TAVNEOS treatment in patients who develop HBV reactivation .
Resumption of TAVNEOS treatment in patients whose HBV reactivation resolves should be discussed with physicians with expertise in managing HBV .
5 . 4 Serious Infections Serious infections , including fatal infections , have been reported in patients receiving TAVNEOS .
The most common serious infections reported in the TAVNEOS group were pneumonia and urinary tract infections .
Avoid use of TAVNEOS in patients with an active , serious infection , including localized infections .
Consider the risks and benefits of treatment prior to initiating TAVNEOS in patients : • with chronic or recurrent infection • who have been exposed to tuberculosis • with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection • who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses ; or • with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection .
Closely monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with TAVNEOS .
Interrupt TAVNEOS if a patient develops a serious or opportunistic infection .
A patient who develops a new infection during treatment with TAVNEOS should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an immunocompromised patient ; appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated , the patient should be closely monitored , and TAVNEOS should be interrupted if the patient is not responding to antimicrobial therapy .
TAVNEOS may be resumed once the infection is controlled .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Serious Infections [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are : nausea , headache , hypertension , diarrhea , vomiting , rash , fatigue , upper abdominal pain , dizziness , blood creatinine increased , and paresthesia .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ChemoCentryx , Inc . at 1 - 833 - 828 - 6367 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because the clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The identification of potential adverse drug reactions was based on safety data from the phase 3 clinical trial in which 330 patients with ANCA - associated vasculitis were randomized 1 : 1 to TAVNEOS or prednisone [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The mean age of patients was 60 . 9 years ( range of 13 to 88 years ) , with a predominance of men ( 56 . 4 % ) and Caucasians ( 84 . 2 % ) .
The cumulative exposure to TAVNEOS was 138 . 7 patient - years .
Additionally , two phase 2 trials were conducted in ANCA - associated vasculitis .
The cumulative clinical trial exposure from the phase 2 and 3 trials equals 212 . 3 patient - years .
The most frequent serious adverse reactions reported more frequently in patients treated with TAVNEOS than with prednisone were pneumonia ( 4 . 8 % TAVNEOS vs . 3 . 7 % prednisone ) , GPA ( 3 . 0 % TAVNEOS vs . 0 . 6 % prednisone ) , acute kidney injury ( 1 . 8 % TAVNEOS vs . 0 . 6 % prednisone ) , and urinary tract infection ( 1 . 8 % TAVNEOS vs . 1 . 2 % prednisone ) .
Within 52 weeks , 4 patients in the prednisone treatment group ( 2 . 4 % ) and 2 patients in the TAVNEOS group ( 1 . 2 % ) died .
There were no deaths in the phase 2 trials .
In the phase 3 trial , seven patients ( 4 . 2 % ) in the TAVNEOS treatment group and 2 patients ( 1 . 2 % ) in the prednisone treatment group discontinued treatment due to hepatic - related adverse reactions , including hepatobiliary adverse reactions and liver enzymes abnormalities .
The most frequent adverse reaction that led to drug discontinuation reported by > 1 patient and more frequently reported in patients treated with TAVNEOS was hepatic function abnormal ( 1 . 8 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients and higher in the TAVNEOS group as compared with the prednisone group are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 5 % of Patients and Higher in TAVNEOS Group vs . Prednisone Group in Phase 3 Trial N = number of patients randomized to treatment group in the Safety Population ; n = number of patients in specified category .
Adverse Reaction Prednisone ( N = 164 ) n ( % ) TAVNEOS ( N = 166 ) n ( % ) Nausea 34 ( 20 . 7 ) 39 ( 23 . 5 ) Headache 23 ( 14 . 0 ) 34 ( 20 . 5 ) Hypertension 29 ( 17 . 7 ) 30 ( 18 . 1 ) Diarrhea 24 ( 14 . 6 ) 25 ( 15 . 1 ) Vomiting 21 ( 12 . 8 ) 25 ( 15 . 1 ) Rash 13 ( 7 . 9 ) 19 ( 11 . 4 ) Fatigue 15 ( 9 . 1 ) 17 ( 10 . 2 ) Upper abdominal pain 10 ( 6 . 1 ) 11 ( 6 . 6 ) Dizziness 10 ( 6 . 1 ) 11 ( 6 . 6 ) Blood creatinine increased 8 ( 4 . 9 ) 10 ( 6 . 0 ) Paresthesia 7 ( 4 . 3 ) 9 ( 5 . 4 ) Hepatotoxicity and Elevated Liver Function Tests In the phase 3 trial , a total of 19 patients ( 11 . 6 % ) in the prednisone group and 22 patients ( 13 . 3 % ) in the TAVNEOS group had hepatic - related adverse reactions , including hepatobiliary adverse reactieventsons and liver enzyme abnormalities .
Study medication was paused or discontinued permanently due to hepatic related adverse reactions in 5 patients ( 3 . 0 % ) in the prednisone group and 9 patients ( 5 . 4 % ) in the TAVNEOS group .
Serious hepatic - related adverse reactions were reported in 6 patients ( 3 . 7 % ) in the prednisone group and 9 patients ( 5 . 4 % ) in the TAVNEOS group .
A serious hepatic - related adverse reaction was reported in 1 patient in the TAVNEOS group in the phase 2 studies .
Angioedema In the phase 3 trial , 2 patients ( 1 . 2 % ) in the TAVNEOS group had angioedema ; one event was a serious adverse reaction requiring hospitalization .
Elevated Creatine Phosphokinase In the phase 3 trial , 1 patient ( 0 . 6 % ) in the prednisone group and 6 patients ( 3 . 6 % ) in the TAVNEOS group had increased creatine phosphokinase .
One TAVNEOS - treated patient discontinued treatment due to increased creatine phosphokinase .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong and moderate CYP3A4 enzyme inducers : Avoid use ( 7 . 1 ) • Strong CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors : Reduce avacopan dose to 30 mg once daily .
( 7 . 2 ) • Sensitive CYP3A4 substrates : Monitor for adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with narrow therapeutic window .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Inducers Avacopan exposure is decreased when co - administered with strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers such as rifampin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid coadministration of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers with TAVNEOS .
7 . 2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Avacopan exposure is increased when co - administered with strong CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors such as itraconazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Administer TAVNEOS 30 mg once daily when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors .
7 . 3 CYP3A4 Substrates Avacopan is a CYP3A4 inhibitor .
Closely monitor patients for adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window when coadministered with TAVNEOS [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with TAVNEOS in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of avacopan to pregnant hamsters and rabbits during the period of organogenesis produced no evidence of fetal harm with exposures up to approximately 5 and 0 . 6 times , respectively , the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 30 mg twice daily ( on an area under the curve [ AUC ] basis ) .
Avacopan caused an increase in the number of abortions in rabbits at an exposure 0 . 6 times the MRHD ( see Animal Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study with pregnant hamsters dosed by the oral route during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 to 12 , avacopan produced an increase in the incidence of a skeletal variation , described as supernumerary ribs , at an exposure that was 5 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with a maternal oral dose of 1000 mg / kg / day ) .
No structural abnormalities were noted with exposures up to 5 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study with pregnant rabbits dosed by the oral route during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 to 18 , avacopan caused an increase in the number of abortions at an exposure 0 . 6 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with a maternal oral dose of 200 mg / kg / day ) , however , no evidence of fetal harm was observed with such exposures .
Maternal toxicity , as evidenced by decreased body weight gains , was observed at exposures 0 . 6 times and higher than the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal oral doses of 30 mg / kg / day and higher ) .
In a prenatal and postnatal development study with pregnant hamsters dosed by the oral route during the periods of gestation and lactation from gestation day 6 to lactation day 20 , avacopan had no effects on the growth and development of offspring with exposures up to approximately 5 times the MRHD ( on an AUC basis with maternal oral doses up to 1000 mg / kg / day ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the effects of avacopan on the breastfed child or on milk production .
It is unknown whether avacopan is secreted in human milk .
Avacopan was detected in the plasma of undosed hamster pups nursing from drug - treated dams ( see Animal Data ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for TAVNEOS and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed infant from TAVNEOS or from the underlying maternal condition .
Animal Data Avacopan has not been measured in the milk of lactating animals ; however , it was detected in the plasma of nursing offspring in a pre - and post - natal development study with hamsters at a pup to maternal plasma ratio of 0 . 37 .
This finding suggests that avacopan is secreted into the milk of lactating hamsters .
[ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of TAVNEOS in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 86 geriatric patients who received TAVNEOS in the phase 3 randomized clinical trial for ANCA - associated vasculitis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , 62 patients were between 65 - 74 years and 24 were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric patients and younger patients .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
TAVNEOS has not been studied in patients with ANCA - associated vasculitis who are on dialysis .
8 . 7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate ( as indicated by the Child - Pugh method ) hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
TAVNEOS has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
11 DESCRIPTION TAVNEOS ( avacopan ) capsules contain avacopan , a C5aR antagonist .
Avacopan is a chiral molecule containing two stereocenters and has a chemical name of ( 2 R , 3 S ) - 2 - [ 4 - ( cyclopentylamino ) phenyl ] - 1 - ( 2 - fluoro - 6 - methylbenzoyl ) - N - [ 4 - methyl - 3 - ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ] piperidine - 3 - carboxamide .
It has a molecular formula of C33H35F4N3O2 and a molecular weight of 582 g / mol .
Avacopan has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Avacopan is a white to pale yellow crystalline solid that is soluble in organic solvents and practically insoluble in water .
TAVNEOS is available as a 10 mg capsule for oral administration .
The capsules include the following inactive ingredients : Polyethylene glycol 4000 ( PEG - 4000 ) , Polyoxyl - 40 hydrogenated castor oil .
The capsules are a light orange and yellow opaque bicolor gelatin capsule with a clear gelatin sealing band .
The top half of the capsule is printed with “ CCX168 ” in black ink .
The capsule shell contains gelatin , red iron oxide , yellow iron oxide , and titanium dioxide , and the capsule sealing band contains gelatin and polysorbate 80 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Avacopan is a complement 5 a receptor ( C5aR ) antagonist that inhibits the interaction between C5aR and the anaphylatoxin C5a .
Avacopan blocks C5a - mediated neutrophil activation and migration .
The precise mechanism by which avacopan exerts a therapeutic effect in patients with ANCA - associated vasculitis has not been definitively established .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Avacopan blocks the C5a - induced upregulation of CD11b ( integrin alpha M ) on neutrophils taken from humans dosed with avacopan .
The clinical significance of the pharmcodynamic effect is unclear .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At the approved recommended dose , TAVNEOS does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , the mean steady state plasma exposure estimates of avacopan are 3466 ± 1921 ng • h / mL for the 12 - hour area under the plasma drug concentration over time curve ( AUC0 - 12 hr ) and 349 ± 169 ng / mL for the maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax ) in patients with ANCA - associated vasculitis receiving 30 mg avacopan twice daily .
Steady state plasma levels of avacopan are reached by 13 weeks and the accumulation is approximately 4 - fold .
Absorption Co - administration of 30 mg in capsule formulation with a high - fat , high - calorie meal increases AUC and Cmax of avacopan by approximately 72 % and 8 % , respectively , and delays tmax by approximately 4 hours ( from 2 . 0 hours to 6 . 0 hours ) .
Distribution The plasma protein binding ( e . g . , to albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein ) of avacopan and metabolite M1 is greater than 99 . 9 % .
The apparent volume of distribution of avacopan is estimated to be 345 L . Elimination Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , the estimated total apparent body clearance ( CL / F ) of avacopan is 16 . 3 L / h .
Following a single dose of 30 mg avacopan with food , the mean elimination half - lives of avacopan and M1 are 97 . 6 hours and 55 . 6 hours , respectively , in healthy subjects .
Metabolism CYP3A4 is the major enzyme responsible for the clearance of avacopan and for the formation and clearance of the major circulating metabolite M1 , a mono - hydroxylated product of avacopan .
M1 was present at ~ 12 % of the total drug - related materials in plasma and has approximately the same activity as avacopan on the C5aR .
Excretion The main route of clearance of avacopan is metabolism followed by biliary excretion of the metabolites into feces .
Following oral administration of radiolabelled avacopan , about 77 % and 10 % of the radioactivity was recovered in feces and urine , respectively , and 7 % and < 0 . 1 % of the radioactive dose was recovered as unchanged avacopan in feces and urine , respectively .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in plasma exposure of avacopan and metabolite M1 were observed based on race ( White , Asian , Black ) , gender ( female 31 % ) , age ( 18 to 83 years ) , body weight ( 40 . 3 - 174 kg ) , and renal function ( eGFR 14 - 170 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 at baseline ) .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Mild ( Child - Pugh A ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh B ) hepatic impairment had no clinically relevant effect on avacopan and M1 plasma exposure .
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , avacopan AUC increased by 12 % and 12 % , respectively , Cmax decreased by 13 % and 17 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal liver function .
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , M1 AUC increased by 11 % and 18 % , respectively , Cmax decreased by 5 % and 16 % , respectively , compared to subjects with normal liver function .
TAVNEOS has not been studied in subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Drug Interaction Studies Effects of Other Drugs on TAVNEOS Avacopan is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 .
In vitro studies indicate that avacopan is not a substrate of BCRP and P - gp efflux , and OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 uptake transporters .
M1 is a substrate of P - gp but is not a substrate of BCRP efflux , and OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 uptake transporters .
Summary of results from a clinical study which evaluated the effect of co - administered drugs on avacopan and M1 plasma exposures is shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Changes in Pharmacokinetics of Avacopan and M1 in the Presence of Co - administered Drugs CI : Confidence interval aRatios for Cmax and AUC comparing co - administration of the medication with avacopan vs . administration of avacopan alone Co - administered Drug Regimen of Co - administered Drug Ratio ( 90 % CI ) a Cmax AUC Strong CYP3A4 inhibitor : itraconazole 200 mg once daily for 4 days Avacopan 1 . 87 ( 1 . 70 , 2 . 06 ) 2 . 19 ( 2 . 00 , 2 . 41 ) M1 1 . 03 ( 0 . 95 , 1 . 11 ) 1 . 19 ( 1 . 11 , 1 . 28 ) Strong CYP3A4 inducer : rifampin 600 mg once daily for 11 days Avacopan 0 . 21 ( 0 . 18 , 0 . 25 ) 0 . 07 ( 0 . 06 , 0 . 10 ) M1 0 . 27 ( 0 . 23 , 0 . 31 ) 0 . 07 ( 0 . 06 , 0 . 09 ) Proton - pump inhibitors such as omeprazole are not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on avacopan plasma exposure .
Effect of TAVNEOS on Other Drug Substances In vitro studies indicate that avacopan does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , and CYP2D6 , and does not induce CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 , but shows induction and time - dependent inhibition of CYP3A4 .
In vitro studies indicate that M1 does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C19 , and CYP2D6 , and has a low potential to induce CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 , but may inhibit CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 .
In vitro studies indicate that avacopan and M1 do not inhibit the transporters P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OCT2 , OAT1 , OAT3 , MATE1 , and MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations .
Summary of results from a clinical study which evaluated the effect of avacopan on other drugs is shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 Change in Pharmacokinetics of Co - administered Drugs in the Presence of Avacopan CI : Confidence interval aRatios for Cmax and AUC comparing co - administration of the medication with avacopan vs . administration of medication alone .
bAvacopan doses were taken under fasted condition .
No food was allowed for at least 2 hours post dose for the morning doses .
Co - administered Drug Regimen of Avacopan Ratio ( 90 % CI ) a Cmax AUC Sensitive CYP3A4 substrate : midazolam 30 mg twice daily for 11 daysb 1 . 55 ( 1 . 41 , 1 . 69 ) 1 . 81 ( 1 . 65 , 1 . 98 ) Sensitive CYP2C9 substrate : celecoxib 30 mg twice daily for 11 daysb 1 . 64 ( 1 . 34 , 2 . 00 ) 1 . 15 ( 1 . 03 , 1 . 28 ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Two - year carcinogenicity studies in Sprague - Dawley rats and Syrian hamsters were conducted to assess the carcinogenic potential of avacopan .
Avacopan demonstrated no tumorigenic potential in a study with rats that received oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the MRHD in adults on an AUC basis ) and a study in hamsters that received oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the MRHD in adults on an AUC basis ) .
Mutagenesis Avacopan was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the following assays : in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test , in vitro mouse lymphoma assay , and in vivo rat micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility Fertility and reproductive performance were unaffected in male and female hamsters that received avacopan by the oral route at dose levels up to 1000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 7 times the MRHD on an AUC basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of TAVNEOS was evaluated in a double - blind , active - controlled , phase 3 clinical trial ( NCT02994927 ) in 330 patients with newly diagnosed or relapsed ANCA - associated vasculitis who were randomized 1 : 1 to one of the following treatment groups : • TAVNEOS group ( N = 166 ) : Patients received 30 mg avacopan twice daily for 52 weeks plus prednisone - matching placebo for 20 weeks • Prednisone group ( N = 164 ) : Patients received avacopan - matched placebo twice daily for 52 weeks plus prednisone ( tapered from 60 mg / day to 0 over 20 weeks ) All patients in both groups received one of the following standard immunosuppressive regimens : • IV cyclophosphamide 15 mg / kg IV up to 1 . 2 g maximum every 2 to 3 weeks for 13 weeks followed by oral azathioprine 1 mg / kg / day with titration up to 2 mg / kg / day ( or mycophenolate mofetil at a target dose of 2 g / day if azathioprine was contraindicated ) from Week 15 onwards • Oral cyclophosphamide 2 mg / kg / day ( maximum 200 mg / day ) for 14 weeks followed by azathioprine 1 mg / kg / day with titration up to 2 mg / kg / day ( or mycophenolate mofetil at a target dose of 2 g / day if azathioprine was contraindicated ) from Week 15 onwards • IV rituximab 375 mg / m2 once weekly for 4 weeks without azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil Glucocorticoids were allowed as pre - medication for rituximab to reduce hypersensitivity reactions , taper after glucocorticoids given during the Screening period , treatment of persistent vasculitis , worsening of vasculitis , or relapses , as well as for non - vasculitis reasons such as adrenal insufficiency .
Randomization was stratified based on 3 factors : newly - diagnosed or relapsing ANCA - associated vasculitis , proteinase 3 positive or myeloperoxidase positive ANCA - associated vasculitis , and standard immunosuppressive regimen .
The primary endpoints of the study were disease remission at Week 26 and sustained disease remission at Week 52 .
Disease remission was defined as achieving a Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score ( BVAS ) of 0 and no use of glucocorticoids for treatment of ANCA - associated vasculitis from Week 22 to Week 26 .
Sustained remission was defined as remission at Week 26 and remission at Week 52 , without relapse between Week 26 and Week 52 .
Remission at Week 52 was defined as BVAS of 0 and no use of glucocorticoids for treatment of ANCA - associated vasculitis from Week 48 to Week 52 .
Relapse was defined as occurrence of one major item , at least 3 non - major items , or 1 or 2 non - major items for at least 2 consecutive visits on the BVAS after remission ( BVAS of 0 ) had been achieved .
The two treatment groups were well balanced regarding baseline demographics and disease characteristics of patients in this trial .
The mean patient age was 60 . 9 years .
Most patients were male ( 56 . 4 % ) , Caucasian ( 84 . 2 % ) , and had newly diagnosed disease ( 69 . 4 % ) .
Patients had either GPA ( 54 . 8 % ) or MPA ( 45 . 2 % ) and had presence of anti - PR3 ( 43 . 0 % ) or anti - MPO ( 57 . 0 % ) antibodies .
Mean baseline BVAS was 16 . 2 ; patients most commonly had manifestations within the renal component ( 81 . 2 % ) , general component ( 68 . 2 % ) , ear / nose / throat component ( 43 . 6 % ) , and chest component ( 43 . 0 % ) .
Approximately 65 % of patients received rituximab , 31 % received IV cyclophosphamide , and 4 % received oral cyclophosphamide .
Remission at Week 26 and Sustained Remission at Week 52 Remission was achieved by 72 . 3 % of patients in the TAVNEOS group and 70 . 1 % of patients in the prednisone group at Week 26 ( treatment difference : 3 . 4 % , 95 % CI [ - 6 . 0 % , 12 . 8 % ] ) .
At Week 52 , a significantly higher percentage of patients had sustained remission in TAVNEOS group ( 65 . 7 % ) compared to the prednisone group ( 54 . 9 % ) , as presented in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Sustained Remission at Week 52 in Phase 3 Trial ( Intent - to - Treat Population ) CI = confidence interval ; N = number of patients in the analysis population for the specified treatment group ; n = number of patients with disease remission ; % = 100 * n / N a2 - sided p - value of Summary Score Test ( Agresti 2013 ) bSummary Score estimate of the common difference in remission rates ( Agresti 2013 ) by using inverse - variance stratum weights cClopper and Pearson exact CI dMiettinen - Nurminen ( Score ) confidence limits for the common difference in remission rates Prednisone ( N = 164 ) n ( % ) TAVNEOS N = 166 n ( % ) Estimate of Treatment Difference P - valuea Sustained Remission at Week 52 90 ( 54 . 9 % ) 109 ( 65 . 7 % ) 12 . 5 % b 0 . 013 95 % CI ( 46 . 9 , 62 . 6 ) c ( 57 . 9 , 72 . 8 ) c ( 2 . 6 , 22 . 3 ) d In pre - specified subgroup efficacy analyses , sustained remission at 52 weeks in patients was examined based on stratification factors and GPA / MPA disease .
The results are displayed in Figure 1 below .
Figure 1 : Forest Plot of Sustained Remission at Week 52 Based on Disease Related Variables [ MULTIMEDIA ] AAV = ANCA - associated vasculitis , CYC = cyclophosphamide , GPA = granulomatosis with polyangiitis , MPA = microscopic polyangiitis ; MPO = myeloperoxidase positive , PR3 = anti - proteinase 3 positive , and RTX = rituximab .
The treatment difference between TAVNEOS and prednisone groups is presented with point estimate and 95 % confidence interval using normal approximation .
The notation N = XXX / YYY indicates the number of patients randomized who received at least one dose of drug in TAVNEOS arm and prednisone arm , respectively .
Subgroup findings should be interpreted with caution due to small sample sizes and overlapping subgroups .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING TAVNEOS ( avacopan ) capsule is supplied as a 10 mg , hard , opaque yellow and light orange capsule with “ CCX168 ” printed in black .
• Bottle containing 180 capsules with child resistant induction seal closure ( NDC 73556 - 168 - 01 ) • Bottle containing 30 capsules with child resistant induction seal closure ( NDC 73556 - 168 - 02 ) Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not use if seal is broken or missing .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) • Dosage and Administration : Instruct the patient that TAVNEOS should be swallowed whole .
TAVNEOS should not be chewed or crushed .
If a dose is missed , instruct the patient to take the next scheduled dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions : Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention when experiencing any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , and difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Hepatotoxicity : Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of hepatic adverse reactions .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of liver problems ; yellowing of the skin or the white part of the eyes ( jaundice ) , dark or brown ( tea colored ) urine , pain on the upper right side of the stomach area ( abdomen ) , bleeding or bruising [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Infections : Inform patients that serious infections have been reported in patients receiving TAVNEOS , including reactivation of hepatitis B infection .
Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they develop any signs or symptoms of an infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Lactation : Consider benefits / risk during lactation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
TAVNEOS is a trademark of ChemoCentryx , Inc .
Copyright © 2021 ChemoCentryx , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Version 1 . 0 Manufactured for ChemoCentryx , Inc . by : Thermo Fisher Scientific 2110 East Galbraith Road Cincinnati , OH 45237 USA MEDICATION GUIDE TAVNEOS ( tav ' nee ose ) ( avacopan ) capsules , for oral use What is the most important information I should know about TAVNEOS ?
TAVNEOS may cause serious side effects , including : • Liver problems .
People taking TAVNEOS may have serious liver problems .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have unexplained symptoms such as : • yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes ( jaundice ) • pain on the upper right side of your stomach area ( abdomen ) • feeling tired • dark or brown ( tea colored ) urine • bleeding or bruising more easily than normal • loss of appetite Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check how well your liver is working before starting and during your treatment with TAVNEOS .
What is TAVNEOS ?
• TAVNEOS is a prescription medicine that is used with other medicines ( such as glucocorticoids ) to treat adults with severe active anti - neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody ( ANCA ) - associated vasculitis ( granulomatosis with polyangiitis [ GPA ] , formerly known as Wegener ’ s granulomatosis , and microscopic polyangiitis [ MPA ] ) .
It is not known if TAVNEOS is safe and effective in children under the age of 18 .
Do not take TAVNEOS : • if you are allergic to avacopan or any of the other ingredients in TAVNEOS .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of the ingredients in TAVNEOS .
• Get medical help right away if you experience swollen lips , tongue , throat , trouble swallowing , or difficulty breathing .
These could be signs of an allergic reaction .
Do not take more of TAVNEOS until you have consulted with your healthcare provider .
Before taking TAVNEOS , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions including if you : • have or have had abnormal liver blood tests .
• have or have had liver problems .
• have or think you may have hepatitis B or hepatitis C . • have an infection .
• are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if TAVNEOS will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if TAVNEOS can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take TAVNEOS .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the other medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
TAVNEOS and certain other medicines may affect each other and cause side effects .
Keep a list of the medicines you take and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• Some medicines should not be taken with TAVNEOS .
• Your healthcare provider may prescribe other medicines to treat your disease .
How should I take TAVNEOS ?
• Take TAVNEOS exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Do not stop taking TAVNEOS unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Check with your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure .
• Take 3 capsules of TAVNEOS 2 times daily ( morning and evening ) with food .
• Your healthcare provider may tell you to take 3 capsules of TAVNEOS 1 time each day if you take certain medicines .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take .
• Swallow the capsules whole with water .
Do not crush , chew or open the capsules .
• If you miss a dose of TAVNEOS , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you have taken too much TAVNEOS , call your doctor or a Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of TAVNEOS ?
TAVNEOS may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about TAVNEOS ? ”
• Serious allergic reactions .
TAVNEOS may cause serious allergic reactions .
Stop taking TAVNEOS and get emergency medical help right away if you have any of the following signs of a serious allergic reaction : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • swollen lips , tongue , throat , or face • trouble swallowing .
• chest pain • feeling dizzy or faint • moderate or severe abdominal pain or vomiting • Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation .
Before you take TAVNEOS , your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check for hepatitis B ( HBV ) infection .
If you have had hepatitis B or are a carrier of hepatitis B virus , taking TAVNEOS could cause the virus to become an active infection again .
Your healthcare provider may decide to stop TAVNEOS and any other medicines if you have active hepatitis B liver disease .
Your healthcare provider will tell you if and when you can start taking TAVNEOS again .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for hepatitis B infection during and for six months after you stop taking TAVNEOS .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get worsening tiredness or yellowing of your skin or white part of your eyes during treatment with TAVNEOS .
• Serious infections .
Serious infections can happen in people taking TAVNEOS , and these infections can lead to death .
The most common serious infections with TAVNEOS were pneumonia and urinary tract infections .
People with serious infections should not take TAVNEOS .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any symptoms of infection : • fever • cold symptoms , such as runny nose or sore throat that do not go away • flu symptoms , such as cough , tiredness , and body aches • earache or headache • pain during urination • cold sores in mouth or throat • cuts , scrapes , or incisions that are red , warm , swollen , or painful The most common side effects of TAVNEOS include : • nausea • diarrhea • tiredness • increase in blood creatinine • headache • vomiting • stomach pain • burning or prickling sensation • high blood pressure • rash • dizziness These are not all the possible side effects of TAVNEOS .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TAVNEOS ?
Store TAVNEOS capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° ) Keep TAVNEOS and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TAVNEOS .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use TAVNEOS for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TAVNEOS to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in TAVNEOS ?
Active ingredient : avacopan Inactive ingredients : Polyethylene glycol 4000 ( PEG - 4000 ) , Polyoxyl - 40 hydrogenated castor oil .
TAVNEOS is a trademark of ChemoCentryx , Inc .
Copyright © 2021 ChemoCentryx , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Version 1 . 0 Manufactured for ChemoCentryx , Inc . by : Thermo Fisher Scientific 2110 East Galbraith Road Cincinnati , OH 45237 USA For more information , go to www . TAVNEOS . com or call 1 - 833 - 828 - 6367 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 10 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 73556 - 168 - 01 - 10 mg 180 - Count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 73556 - 168 - 01 - 10 mg 180 - Count Bottle Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 73556 - 168 - 02 - 10 mg 30 - Count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 73556 - 168 - 02 - 10 mg 30 - Count Bottle Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
