Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each round , white , peppermint flavored tablet can be chewed or placed on tongue for disintegration and contains 0 . 125 mg of hyoscyamine sulfate USP .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is one of the principal anticholinergic / antispasmodic components of belladonna alkaloids .
The empirical formula is ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • 2H2O and the molecular weight is 712 . 85 .
Chemically , it is benzeneacetic acid , α - ( hydroxymethyl ) - , 8 - methyl - 8 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 . ]
oct - 3 - yl ester , [ 3 ( S ) - endo ] • , sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) , dehydrate with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive ingredients include : lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , mannitol USP , peppermint flavor , starch , stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits specifically the actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of the smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sinoatrial node , the atrioventricular node , and the exocrine glands .
At therapeutic doses , it is completely devoid of any action on autonomic ganglia .
Hyoscyamine sulfate inhibits gastrointestinal propulsive motility and decreases gastric acid secretion .
Hyoscyamine sulfate also controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal and bronchial secretions .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is absorbed totally and completely by oral administration .
Once absorbed , hyoscyamine sulfate disappears rapidly from the blood and is distributed throughout the entire body .
The half - life of hyoscyamine sulfate is 2 to 3 ½ hours .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is partly hydrolyzed to tropic acid and tropine but the majority of the drug is excreted in the urine unchanged within the first 12 hours .
Only traces of this drug are found in breast milk .
Hyoscyamine sulfate passes the blood brain barrier and the placental barrier .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE NuLev ® is effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
It can also be used to control gastric secretion , visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis , spastic bladder , cystitis , pylorospasm , and associated abdominal cramps .
May be used in functional intestinal disorders to reduce symptoms such as those seen in mild dysenteries , diverticulitis , and acute enterocolitis .
For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and functional gastrointestinal disorders .
Also used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder and neurogenic bowel disturbances ( including the splenic flexure syndrome and neurogenic colon ) .
NuLev ® is indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic ; as a “ drying agent ” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis ; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis .
May be used in the therapy of poisoning by anticholinesterase agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis ) : paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of elderly or debilitated patients ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
WARNINGS In the presence of high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with drug use ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Like other anticholinergic agents , NuLev ® may produce drowsiness , dizziness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs including hyoscyamine sulfate .
CNS signs and symptoms include confusion , disorientation , shortterm memory loss , hallucinations , dysarthria , ataxia , euphoria , anxiety , fatigue , insomnia , agitation and mannerisms , and inappropriate affect .
These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of the drug .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , and renal disease .
Investigate any tachycardia before giving any anticholinergic drug since they may increase the heart rate .
Use with caution in patients with hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Information for Patients Like other anticholinergic agents , NuLev ® may produce drowsiness , dizziness , or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug .
Use of NuLev ® may decrease sweating resulting in heat prostration , fever or heat stroke ; febrile patients or those who may be exposed to elevated environmental temperatures should use caution .
Drug Interactions Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade may occur when NuLev ® is administered concomitantly with other antimuscarinics , amantadine , haloperidol , phenothiazines , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants or some antihistamines .
Antacids may interfere with the absorption of hyoscyamine sulfate .
Administer NuLev ® before meals ; antacids after meals .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the carcinogenic , mutagenic or impairment of fertility potential of hyoscyamine sulfate ; however , 40 years of marketing experience with hyoscyamine sulfate shows no demonstrable evidence of a problem .
Pregnancy - Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with hyoscyamine sulfate .
It is also not known whether hyoscyamine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
NuLev ® should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Hyoscyamine sulfate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when NuLev ® is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Reported clinical experience has not identified differences in safety between patients aged 65 and over and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS All of the following adverse reactions have been reported with hyoscyamine sulfate .
Adverse reactions may include dryness of the mouth ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; mydriasis ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; fatigue ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; abdominal pain ; diarrhea ; allergic reactions or drug idiosyncrasies ; urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; ataxia ; speech disturbance ; some degree of mental confusion and / or excitement ( especially in elderly persons ) ; short - term memory loss ; hallucinations ; and decreased sweating .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Measures to be taken are immediate lavage of the stomach and injection of physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg intravenously and repeated as necessary up to a total of 5 mg .
Fever may be treated symptomatically ( tepid water sponge baths , hypothermic blanket ) .
Excitement to a degree that demands attention may be managed with sodium thiopental 2 % solution given slowly intravenously or chloral hydrate ( 100 - 200 mL of a 2 % solution ) by rectal infusion .
In the event of progression of the curare - like effect to paralysis of the respiratory muscles , artificial respiration should be instituted and maintained until effective respiratory action returns .
In rats , the LD50 for hyoscyamine is 375 mg / kg .
Hyoscyamine sulfate is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms .
NuLev ® Chewable Melt ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate tablets , 0 . 125 mg ) may be chewed or placed on tongue and allowed to disintegrate .
Tablets may be taken with or without water .
Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older 1 to 2 tablets every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours .
Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : ½ to 1 tablet every four hours or as needed .
Do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED NuLev ® Chewable Melt ( Hyoscyamine Sulfate tablets , 0 . 125 mg ) are round , white , peppermint flavored tablets with " AP " debossed on one side and “ nu ” debossed on the opposite side .
Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 68220 - 118 - 10 Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers as defined in the USP / NF , with a child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , see USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Avoid exposure to heat .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE , SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CALL A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY .
Manufactured for : ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC Marietta , GA 30062 www . alavenpharm . com For Medical Inquiries Call toll free 1 - 888 - 317 - 0001 04 / 2009 500384 Printed in USA Principal Display Panel – 0 . 125 mg NDC 68220 - 118 - 10 NuLev ® Chewable Melt Tablets ( hyoscyamine sulfate tablets , USP ) 0 . 125 mg / tablet Rx only 100 tablets Each chewable melt tablet contains : Hyoscyamine Sulfate USP 0 . 125 mg .
Dosage : See package insert for complete prescribing information .
PHARMACISTS : Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as described in USP / NF , with a child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , see USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Avoid exposure to heat .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : ALAVEN ® PHARMACEUTICAL LLC Marietta , GA 30062 www . alavenpharm . com For medical inquiries call 1 - 888 - 317 - 0001 400675 - 09 Rev . 10 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
