Drug Facts Active Ingredients Titanium Dioxide 7 . 75 % Zinc Oxide 10 . 0 % Purpose : Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protective measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • for children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in sun from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water ( aqua ) , caprylic / capric triglyceride , butyloctyl salicylate , glycerin , dimethicone , styrene / acrylates copolymer , coco - caprylate / caprate , aluminum stearate , carthamus tinctorius oleosomes , polyhydroxystearic acid , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , polygonum aviculare extract , tocopheryl acetate , perilla frutescens extract , vitis vinifera fruit cell extract , lepidium sativum sprout extract , squalane , cetearyl alcohol , isononyl isononanoate , coco - glucoside , pentylene glycol , behenyl alcohol , xanthan gum , triethoxycaprylylsilane , arachidyl glucoside , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , stearic acid , sucrose stearate , phenethyl alcohol , tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate , glyceryl caprylate , ethylene / propylene / styrene copolymer , sorbitan oleate , polyglyceryl - 2 caprate , propanediol , alumina , arachidyl alcohol , iron oxides ( CI 77492 , CI 77491 , CI 77499 ) .
Questions or Comments ?
( 781 ) 281 - 0954 For all skin types This lightly tinted daytime moisturizer provides broad spectrum protection based on minerals alone excluding chemical absorbers .
The formula is enriched with skin friendly , sustainable emollients which are easily absorbed by the skin while minimizing the white appearance common to mineral based sunscreens .
A wide range of free radical scavengers provides the antioxidant protection which is vital during exposure to UV light .
Vitamin E supported by a stable ester form of Vitamin C protects the skin ’ s own lipids as well as the seed oils in the formula .
Extracts of Garden Cress sprouts and Grapes contribute their antioxidants to the water based part of the composition .
Distributed by : Anna Lotan USA Inc . 16 Wheeling Ave , Woburn , MA 01801 www . annalotanusa . com info @ annalotanusa . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
