[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Purpose Polyethylene Glycol 400 0 . 4 % Lubricant Propylene Glycol 0 . 3 % Lubricant Uses • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • for the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • if this product changes color or becomes cloudy • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using the product • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following : • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before using • put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed • see side of carton for directions for use Other Information • Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Aminomethylpropanol , boric acid , hydroxypropyl guar , potassium chloride , purified water , sodium chloride , sorbitol .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Questions ?
In the U . S . call 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 alcon . medinfo @ alcon . com www . systane . com Directions for Use : • Hold the bottle just below the cap and twist the cap to open .
• BEFORE FIRST USE , hold the bottle upside down and dispense one drop of product to discard .
• Shake the bottle downward to remove residual product ( see picture ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed and blink .
• After use , shake the bottle downward to remove residual product that may be left on the tip ( see picture above ) .
• Replace cap after use .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Systane ® LUBRICANT EYE DROPS ULTRA PF PRESERVATIVE - FREE DRY EYE RELIEF Fast - acting hydration and lasting relief Moisture rich formula for sensitive eyes DOCTOR RECOMMENDED # 1 Brand1 STERILE 10 mL ( 0 . 34 FL OZ ) Alcon SIDE PANEL : TAMPER EVIDENT : For your protection , this bottle has a tamper evident ring around the bottom of the cap .
Do not use if this ring is damaged or missing at the time of purchase .
1 Based on a survey of eye care professionals .
Data on file .
Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA Country of Origin United States www . alconpatents . com 300049462 - 0721 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
