INDICATIONS AND USAGE LDO Plus ™ is a medicated Hydrogel wound dressing in a Metered Dose ( MDOSE ™ ) bottle containing lidocaine 4 % , an amide type local anesthetic , indicated for : Painful wounds such as post - surgical incisions , cuts and abrasions .
DOSAGE Apply to the affected area as directed .
Maximum 12 pumps per day .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LDO Plus is a topical medicated hydrogel wound dressing .
Each gram of LDO Plus contains 4 % Lidocaine HCl USP ( 40 mg ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS For External Use Only .
Avoid Contact with Eyes .
If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LDO Plus should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are redness or swelling at the application site .
Less common side effects , such as sluggishness , confusion , slow breathing , low blood pressure , or slow heartbeat , may occur .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gensco Pharma at 866 - 608 - 6284 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prilocaine , Bupivacaine , Amyl nitrates / sodium nitrate / sodium thiosulfate , Dofetilide .
Lomitapide , Beta - blockers ( e . g . , atenolol ) , Cimetidine , or Class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs ( ex .
Mexiletine ) .
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur .
Ask your health care provider if LDO Plus may interact with other medicines that you take .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category B . Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use : Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Geriatric use : No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the healthy elderly and other adult patients .
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * WARNING | 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE | 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage for children 2 . 2 Administration | 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS | 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS | 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS | 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Central nervous system 6 . 2 Cardiovascular system 6 . 3 Allergic | 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Serious interactions 7 . 2 General interactions | 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 2 Labor and Delivery 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use | 9 OVER DOSAGE 9 . 1 Management of local anesthetic emergencies | 10 DESCRIPTION 10 . 0 Active Ingredients 10 . 2 Inactive Ingredients | 11 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 11 . 1 Mechanism of Action 11 . 2 Onset of Anesthesia 11 . 3 Hemodynamics 11 . 4 Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism | 12 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 12 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility | 13 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING * Sections or subsections omitted from the prescribing information are not listed .
Warning : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
EXCESSIVE DOSAGE , OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES , CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS OF LIDOCAINE AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS , PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT .
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN , AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS .
1 .
Indications Painful wounds such as post - surgical incisions , ulcers , cuts and abrasions .
2 .
Dosage and Administration : Each pump of the LDO Plus MDOSE bottle ( 30 mL Airless Metered Dose bottle ) ( NDC : 35781 - 0500 - 3 ) will deliver 0 . 25 mL of LDO Plus ( 10 mg Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ) , enough to cover a 2 inch by 2 inch area of skin .
A single application should not exceed 4 pumps of the MDOSE bottle , equal to 1 gram of LDO Plus , ( 40 mg of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ) .
No more than 12 pumps of the MDOSE bottle , approximately 3 grams of LDO Plus ( 120 mg Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP , ) should be administered in any one day .
Although the incidence of adverse effects with LDO Plus is quite low , caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
2 . 1 Dosage for children : The recommend dose of LDO Plus varies as a function of age and weight .
For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ’ s rule ) .
For example , a child of five years weighing 50 lbs . , the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 - 100 mg ( approximately 1 . 9 to 2 . 5 grams of LDO Plus ) when calculated according to Clark ’ s rule .
In general , the maximum amount of lidocaine administered should not exceed 4 . 5 mg / kg ( 2 . 0 mg / lb ) of body weight of the child .
Do not use on children under 2 unless directed by a physician .
2 . 2 Administration : Apply as directed .
Do not exceed 12 pumps in a twenty - four - hour ( 24 - hour ) period .
One pump covers an area of 2 x2 inches .
3 .
Dosage Form and Strength : LDO Plus is a topical medicated hydrogel wound dressing .
Each gram of LDO Plus contains 4 % Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP ( 40 mg ) .
4 .
Contraindications : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of LDO Plus .
Do not use LDO Plus on traumatized mucosa or in the presence of secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application .
5 .
Warnings and Precautions : If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
LDO Plus should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
In case of accidental ingestion get medical help or contact poison control center right away .
6 .
Adverse Reactions : Adverse experiences following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : 6 . 1 Central nervous system : CNS manifestations of Lidocaine toxicity are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
6 . 2 Cardiovascular system : Cardiovascular manifestations of Lidocaine toxicity are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
6 . 3 Allergic : Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
7 .
Drug Interactions : 7 . 1 Serious interactions : Antiarrhythmic Drugs : LDO Plus should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs ( such as tocainide and mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic .
Bupivacaine liposome : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases toxicity of Bupivacaine by increasing the free ( unencapsulated ) bupiacaine .
Dofetilide : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases effects of dofetilide thru pharmacodynamic synergism .
Lomitapide : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP increases levels of lomitapide by affecting hepatic / intestinal enzymes CYP3A4 metabolism .
7 . 2 General interactions : Drugs metabolized via CYP3A4 enzyme : ( ex .
Antipsychotics , SSRIs , TCAs , many chemotherapeutics , calcium channel bockers , benzodiazopines ) Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may increase serum levels of many drugs metabolized by hepatic / intestinal CYP3A4 enzymes .
Drugs that affect hepatic CYP1A2 enzyme : ( ex .
Quinoline antibiotics , cimetidine , barbiturates , benzodiazepines , erythromycin ) May increase serum Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP levels by decreasing Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP metabolism by CYP1A2 enzyme .
8 .
Use in Specific Populations : 8 . 1 Use in Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is not contraindicated in labor and delivery .
Should LDO Plus be used concomitantly with other products containing Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP , the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric use : Dosage in children should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
Caution must be taken to avoid over dosage when applying LDO Plus to large areas of injured or abraded skin , since the systemic absorption of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be increased under such conditions .
Do not use on children under 2 unless directed by a physician 8 . 5 Geriatric use : No overall clinical differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between the healthy elderly and other adult patients .
9 .
Over Dosage : Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics .
( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
9 . 1 Management of local anesthetic emergencies : The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ’ s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic administration .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardiopulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute over dosage with Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
The oral LD50 of Lidocaine HCI USP in non - fasted female rats is 459 ( 346 - 773 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) and 214 ( 159 - 324 ) mg / kg ( as the salt ) in fasted female rats .
10 .
Description : 10 . 1 Active Ingredients : Each gram of LDO Plus contains Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP 4 % ( 40 mg ) .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 . 2 Inactive Ingredients : Polyethylene Glycol ( PEG ) 400 & Polyethylene Glycol 3350 as base , Oak Extract , Meadowsweet Extract , Zinc Acetate , and Water .
11 .
Clinical Pharmacology : 11 . 1 Mechanism of action : LDO Plus is a hydrated polymer ( Hydrogel ) wound dressing containing 4 % w / w Lidocaine HCl USP .
By providing moisture to the wound , LDO Plus creates a moist healing environment , which promotes granulation , epithelialization , and autolytic debridement .
The high water content of hydrogel dressings cools the wound , producing pain relief that can last up to 6 hours .
Dressing - change discomfort is also reduced because LDO Plus doesn ’ t adhere to the wound surface .
LDO Plus releases Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP from the Neutral ( pH 7 - 7 . 2 ) hydrogel to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
11 . 2 Onset of anesthesia : LDO Plus effects local , topical anesthesia .
The onset of action is 3 - 5 minutes .
11 . 3 Hemodynamics : Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system .
11 . 4 Pharmacokinetics and metabolism : Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes or open wounds , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP .
Approximately 90 % of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 μg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
12 .
Non - Clinical Toxicity : Studies of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
13 .
How Supplied / Storage and Handling : HOW SUPPLIED : LDO Plus ( Medicated Hydrogel containing Lidocaine HCl USP 4 % ) 1 . 0 oz ( 28 . 5 g ) 30 mL Airless Pump - NDC 35781 - 0500 - 3 STORE AND DISPOSE OF THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN AND PETS .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on the therapeutic equivalence .
Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15º - 30ºC ( 59º - 86º F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Manufactured for : Gensco Laboratories , 8550 NW 33 rd Street , Suite 200 , Doral , FL 33122 MDOSE ™ is aregistered trademark of Gensco Laboratories , LLC .
Active Ingredients : Methyl Salicylate .... 30 . 00 % Menthol .................
10 . 00 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses : temporarily relieves the minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : - simple backache - arthritis - strains - bruises - sprains Warnings : For external use only Do not use : - on wounds or damaged skin - with a heating pad - on a child under 12 years of age with arthritis - like conditions Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over the affected area When using this product : - avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes - do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if : - condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days - symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days - excessive skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental ingestion .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Directions : - use only as directed - adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily - children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Calendula Officinalis Extract , Cannabis Sativa ( Hemp ) Seed Oil , Cetearyl Olivate , Cetyl Alcohol , Chondrotin Sulfate , Gluconolactone , Glucosamine Sulfate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Magnesium Sulfate , Methylsulfonylmethane ( MSM ) , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Laurylglucosides Hydroxypropylsulfonate , SorbitanOlivate , Tapioca Starch , Xanthan Gum , Zemea ( Corn ) Propanediol .
WPR Plus Kit ( 69837 - 305 - 03 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMPlify Relief MM , 118 mL ( 69837 - 019 - 01 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
