WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , CHCs , including NuvaRing , should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) . ]
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Women over 35 years old who smoke should not use NuvaRing .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) use .
( 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FOR VAGINAL USE ONLY NuvaRing ® is indicated for use by females of reproductive age to prevent pregnancy .
NuvaRing is an estrogen / progestin combination hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One NuvaRing is inserted in the vagina .
The ring must remain in place continuously for three weeks , followed by a one - week ring - free interval .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 How to Use NuvaRing To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , NuvaRing must be used as directed [ see Dosing and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
One NuvaRing is inserted in the vagina .
The ring is to remain in place continuously for three weeks .
It is removed for a one - week break , during which a withdrawal bleed usually occurs .
A new ring is inserted one week after the last ring was removed .
The user can choose the insertion position that is most comfortable to her , for example , standing with one leg up , squatting , or lying down .
The ring is to be compressed and inserted into the vagina .
The exact position of NuvaRing inside the vagina is not critical for its function .
The vaginal ring must be inserted on the appropriate day and left in place for three consecutive weeks .
This means that the ring should be removed three weeks later on the same day of the week as it was inserted and at about the same time .
NuvaRing can be removed by hooking the index finger under the forward rim or by grasping the rim between the index and middle finger and pulling it out .
The used ring should be placed in the sachet ( foil pouch ) and discarded in a waste receptacle out of the reach of children and pets ( do not flush in toilet ) .
After a one - week break , during which a withdrawal bleed usually occurs , a new ring is inserted on the same day of the week as it was inserted in the previous cycle .
The withdrawal bleed usually starts on Day 2 - 3 after removal of the ring and may not have finished before the next ring is inserted .
In order to maintain contraceptive effectiveness , the new ring must be inserted exactly one week after the previous one was removed even if menstrual bleeding has not finished .
2 . 2 How to Start Using NuvaRing IMPORTANT : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to the first use of NuvaRing .
No Hormonal Contraceptive Use in the Preceding Cycle : The woman should insert NuvaRing on the first day of her menstrual bleeding .
NuvaRing may also be started on Days 2 - 5 of the woman ' s cycle , but in this case a barrier method , such as male condoms with spermicide , should be used for the first seven days of NuvaRing use in the first cycle .
Changing From a CHC : The woman may switch from her previous CHC on any day , but at the latest on the day following the usual hormone - free interval , if she has been using her hormonal method consistently and correctly , or if it is reasonably certain that she is not pregnant .
Changing From a Progestin - Only Method ( progestin - only pill [ POP ] , Implant , or Injection or a Progestin - Releasing Intrauterine System [ IUS ] ) : The woman may switch from the POP on any day ; instruct her to start using NuvaRing on the day after she took her last POP .
She should switch from an implant or the IUS on the day of its removal , and from an injectable on the day when the next injection would be due .
In all of these cases , the woman should use an additional barrier method such as a male condom with spermicide , for the first seven days .
Use after Abortion or Miscarriage The woman may start using NuvaRing within the first five days following a complete first trimester abortion or miscarriage , and she does not need to use an additional method of contraception .
If use of NuvaRing is not started within five days following a first trimester abortion or miscarriage , the woman should follow the instructions for " No Hormonal Contraceptive Use in the Preceding Cycle . "
In the meantime , she should be advised to use a non - hormonal contraceptive method .
Start NuvaRing no earlier than four weeks after a second trimester abortion or miscarriage , due to the increased risk of thromboembolism .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Following Childbirth The use of NuvaRing may be initiated no sooner than four weeks postpartum in women who elect not to breastfeed , due to the increased risk of thromboembolism in the postpartum period .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) . ]
Advise women who are breastfeeding not to use NuvaRing but to use other forms of contraception until the child is weaned .
If a woman begins using NuvaRing postpartum , instruct her to use an additional method of contraception , such as male condoms with spermicide , for the first seven days .
If she has not yet had a period , consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to initiation of NuvaRing .
2 . 3 Deviations from the Recommended Regimen To prevent loss of contraceptive efficacy , advise women not to deviate from the recommended regimen .
NuvaRing should be left in the vagina for a continuous period of three weeks .
Inadvertent Removal or Expulsion NuvaRing can be accidentally expelled , for example , while removing a tampon , during intercourse , or with straining during a bowel movement .
NuvaRing should be left in the vagina for a continuous period of three weeks .
If the ring is accidentally expelled and is left outside of the vagina for less than three hours , contraceptive efficacy is not reduced .
NuvaRing can be rinsed with cool to lukewarm ( not hot ) water and reinserted as soon as possible , but at the latest within three hours .
If NuvaRing is lost , a new vaginal ring should be inserted and the regimen should be continued without alteration .
If NuvaRing is out of the vagina for more than three continuous hours : During Weeks 1 and 2 : Contraceptive efficacy may be reduced .
The woman should reinsert the ring as soon as she remembers .
A barrier method such as condoms with spermicides must be used until the ring has been used continuously for seven days .
During Week 3 : The woman should discard that ring .
One of the following two options should be chosen : • Insert a new ring immediately .
Inserting a new ring will start the next three - week use period .
The woman may not experience a withdrawal bleed from her previous cycle .
However , breakthrough spotting or bleeding may occur .
• Insert a new ring no later than seven days from the time the previous ring was removed or expelled , during which time she may have a withdrawal bleed .
This option should only be chosen if the ring was used continuously for at least seven days prior to inadvertent removal / expulsion .
In either case , a barrier method such as condoms with spermicides must be used until the new ring has been used continuously for seven days .
Prolonged Ring - Free Interval If the ring - free interval has been extended beyond one week , consider the possibility of pregnancy , and an additional method of contraception , such as male condoms with spermicide , MUST be used until NuvaRing has been used continuously for seven days .
Prolonged Use of NuvaRing If NuvaRing has been left in place for up to one extra week ( i . e . , up to four weeks total ) , the woman will remain protected .
NuvaRing should be removed and the woman should insert a new ring after a one - week ring - free interval .
If NuvaRing has been left in place for longer than four weeks , instruct the woman to remove the ring , and rule out pregnancy .
If pregnancy is ruled out , NuvaRing may be restarted , and an additional method of contraception , such as male condoms with spermicide , MUST be used until a new NuvaRing has been used continuously for seven days .
Ring Breakage There have been reported cases of NuvaRing disconnecting at the weld joint .
This is not expected to affect the contraceptive effectiveness of NuvaRing .
In the event of a disconnected ring , vaginal discomfort or expulsion ( slipping out ) is more likely to occur .
If a woman discovers that her NuvaRing has disconnected , she should discard the ring and replace it with a new ring .
2 . 4 In the Event of a Missed Menstrual Period • If the woman has not adhered to the prescribed regimen ( NuvaRing has been out of the vagina for more than three hours or the preceding ring - free interval was extended beyond one week ) , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and discontinue NuvaRing use if pregnancy is confirmed .
• If the woman has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
• If the woman has retained one NuvaRing for longer than four weeks , rule out pregnancy .
2 . 5 Use with Other Vaginal Products NuvaRing may interfere with the correct placement and position of a diaphragm .
A diaphragm is therefore not recommended as a back - up method with NuvaRing use .
Pharmacokinetic data show that the use of tampons has no effect on the systemic absorption of the hormones released by NuvaRing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS NuvaRing ( etonogestrel / ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring ) is a non - biodegradable , flexible , transparent , colorless to almost colorless , combination contraceptive vaginal ring , with an outer diameter of 54 mm and a cross - sectional diameter of 4 mm .
It is made of ethylene vinylacetate copolymers and magnesium stearate , and contains 11 . 7 mg etonogestrel and 2 . 7 mg ethinyl estradiol .
When placed in the vagina , each ring releases on average 0 . 120 mg / day of etonogestrel and 0 . 015 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol over a three - week period of use .
NuvaRing is not made with natural rubber latex .
NuvaRing is a polymeric vaginal ring containing 11 . 7 mg etonogestrel and 2 . 7 mg ethinyl estradiol , which releases on average 0 . 12 mg / day of etonogestrel and 0 . 015 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not prescribe NuvaRing to women who are known to have the following : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Liver tumors , benign or malignant or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use CHCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of NuvaRing [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of NuvaRing ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop NuvaRing use if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop NuvaRing use at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) : If patient exhibits signs or symptoms of TSS , consider the possibility of this diagnosis and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue NuvaRing use if jaundice develops .
( 5 . 3 ) • High blood pressure : If used in women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop NuvaRing use if blood pressure rises significantly .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
( 5 . 7 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue NuvaRing use if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems Stop NuvaRing use if an arterial thrombotic or venous thromboembolic event ( VTE ) occurs .
Stop NuvaRing use if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
[ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) . ]
If feasible , stop NuvaRing at least four weeks before and through two weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism , and during and following prolonged immobilization .
Start NuvaRing no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
The use of CHCs increases the risk of VTE .
Known risk factors for VTE include smoking , obesity , and family history of VTE , in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of CHCs [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Two epidemiologic studies1 , 2 , 3 that assessed the risk of VTE associated with the use of NuvaRing are described below .
In these studies , which were required or sponsored by regulatory agencies , NuvaRing users had a risk of VTE similar to COC users ( see Table 1 for adjusted hazard ratios ) .
A large prospective , observational study , the Transatlantic Active Surveillance on Cardiovascular Safety of NuvaRing ( TASC ) , investigated the risk of VTE for new users , and women who were switching to or restarting NuvaRing or COCs in a population that is representative of routine clinical users .
The women were followed for 24 to 48 months .
The results showed a similar risk of VTE among NuvaRing users ( VTE incidence 8 . 3 per 10 , 000 WY ) and women using COCs ( VTE incidence 9 . 2 per 10 , 000 WY ) .
For women using COCs that did not contain the progestins desogestrel ( DSG ) or gestodene ( GSD ) , VTE incidence was 8 . 9 per 10 , 000 WY .
A retrospective cohort study using data from 4 health plans in the US ( FDA - funded Study in Kaiser Permanente and Medicaid databases ) showed the VTE incidence for new users of NuvaRing to be 11 . 4 events per 10 , 000 WY , for new users of a levonorgestrel ( LNG ) - containing COC 9 . 2 events per 10 , 000 WY , and for users of other COCs available during the course of the study [ 1 ] 8 . 2 events per 10 , 000 WY .
Table 1 : Estimates ( Hazard Ratios ) of Venous Thromboembolism Risk in Users of NuvaRing Compared to Users of Combined Oral Contraceptives ( COCs ) Epidemiologic Study ( Author , Year of Publication ) Population Studied Comparator Product ( s ) Hazard Ratios ( HR ) ( 95 % CI ) TASC ( Dinger , 2012 ) Initiators , including new users , switchers and restarters All COCs available during the course of the study [ 1 ] COCs available excluding DSG - or GSD - containing OCs HR [ 2 ] : 0 . 8 ( 0 . 5 - 1 . 5 ) HR null : 0 . 8 ( 0 . 4 - 1 . 7 ) FDA - funded Study in Kaiser Permanente and Medicaid databases ( Sidney , 2011 ) First use of a combined hormonal contraceptive ( CHC ) during the study period COCs available during the course of the study [ 3 ] HR [ 4 ] : 1 . 1 ( 0 . 6 - 2 . 2 ) LNG / 0 . 03 mg ethinyl estradiol HR null : 1 . 0 ( 0 . 5 - 2 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Includes low - dose COCs containing the following progestins : chlormadinone acetate , cyproterone acetate , desogestrel , dienogest , drospirenone , ethynodiol diacetate , gestodene , levonorgestrel , norethindrone , norgestimate , or norgestrel [ 2 ] Adjusted for age , BMI , duration of use , VTE history [ 3 ] Includes low - dose COCs containing the following progestins : norgestimate , norethindrone , or levonorgestrel [ 4 ] Adjusted for age , site , year of entry into study An increased risk of thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of CHCs is well - established .
Although the absolute VTE rates are increased for users of CHCs compared to non - users , the rates associated with pregnancy are even greater , especially during the post - partum period ( see Figure 1 ) .
The frequency of VTE in women using CHCs has been estimated to be 3 to 12 cases per 10 , 000 women - years .
The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of CHC use and after restarting a CHC following a break of at least four weeks .
The risk of VTE due to CHCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued .
Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for women who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs , for women who use CHCs , for pregnant women , and for women in the postpartum period .
To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective : If 10 , 000 women who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs are followed for one year , between 1 and 5 of these women will develop a VTE .
Figure 1 : Likelihood of Developing a VTE [ MULTIMEDIA ] * CHC = combination hormonal contraception ** Pregnancy data based on actual duration of pregnancy in the reference studies .
Based on a model assumption that pregnancy duration is nine months , the rate is 7 to 27 per 10 , 000 WY .
Several epidemiology studies indicate that third generation oral contraceptives , including those containing desogestrel ( etonogestrel , the progestin in NuvaRing , is the biologically active metabolite of desogestrel ) , may be associated with a higher risk of VTE than oral contraceptives containing other progestins .
Some of these studies indicate an approximate two - fold increased risk .
However , data from other studies have not shown this two - fold increase in risk .
Use of CHCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
CHCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events ( thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes ) .
In general , the risk is greatest among older ( > 35 years of age ) , hypertensive women who also smoke .
Use NuvaRing with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Includes low - dose COCs containing the following progestins : norgestimate , norethindrone , or levonorgestrel .
5 . 2 Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) Cases of TSS have been reported by NuvaRing users .
TSS has been associated with tampons and certain barrier contraceptives , and , in some cases the NuvaRing users were also using tampons .
A causal relationship between the use of NuvaRing and TSS has not been established .
If a patient exhibits signs or symptoms of TSS , consider the possibility of this diagnosis and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment .
5 . 3 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use NuvaRing in women with liver disease such as acute viral hepatitis or severe ( decompensated ) cirrhosis of the liver [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use until markers of liver function return to normal and CHC causation has been excluded [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Discontinue NuvaRing use if jaundice develops .
Liver Tumors NuvaRing is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with CHC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases per 100 , 000 CHC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long term ( > 8 years ) CHC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in CHC users is less than one case per million users .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure NuvaRing is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop NuvaRing use if blood pressure rises significantly .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women using CHCs and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin .
5 . 5 Vaginal Use NuvaRing may not be suitable for women with conditions that make the vagina more susceptible to vaginal irritation or ulceration .
Vaginal / cervical erosion or ulceration in women using NuvaRing has been reported .
In some cases , the ring adhered to vaginal tissue , necessitating removal by a healthcare provider .
Some women are aware of the ring on occasion during the 21 days of use or during intercourse , and sexual partners may feel NuvaRing in the vagina .
5 . 6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among CHC users .
Use of CHCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease .
A past history of CHC - related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent CHC use .
Women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for CHC - related cholestasis .
5 . 7 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are using NuvaRing .
CHCs may decrease glucose tolerance .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia .
Some women will have adverse lipid changes while on CHCs .
Women with hypertriglyceridemia , or a family history thereof , may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using CHCs .
5 . 8 Headache If a woman using NuvaRing develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue NuvaRing if indicated .
Consider discontinuation of NuvaRing in the case of an increased frequency or severity of migraine during CHC use ( which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled bleeding ( breakthrough or intracyclic ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in women using CHCs , especially during the first three months of use .
If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different CHC .
Bleeding patterns were evaluated in three large clinical studies .
In the North American study ( US and Canada , N = 1 , 177 ) , the percentages of subjects with breakthrough bleeding / spotting ranged from 7 . 2 % to 11 . 7 % during cycles 1 - 13 .
In the two non - US studies , the percentages of subjects with breakthrough bleeding / spotting ranged from 2 . 6 % to 6 . 4 % ( Europe , N = 1 , 145 ) and from 2 . 0 % to 8 . 7 % ( Europe , Brazil , Chile , N = 512 ) .
Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea If scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding does not occur , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule , consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures .
Occasional missed periods may occur with the appropriate use of NuvaRing .
In the clinical studies , the percent of women who did not have withdrawal bleeding in a given cycle ranged from 0 . 3 % to 3 . 8 % .
If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods , rule out pregnancy .
Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuing CHC use , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 10 Inadvertent Urinary Bladder Insertion There have been reports of inadvertent insertions of NuvaRing into the urinary bladder , which required cystoscopic removal .
Assess for ring insertion into the urinary bladder in NuvaRing users who present with persistent urinary symptoms and are unable to locate the ring .
5 . 11 CHC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy .
Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect , particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned , when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy .
Discontinue NuvaRing if pregnancy is confirmed .
5 . 12 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue NuvaRing use if depression recurs to a serious degree .
5 . 13 Carcinoma of the Breasts and Cervix NuvaRing is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer is a hormonally - sensitive tumor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
There is substantial evidence that CHCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that CHCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
Some studies suggest that CHCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 14 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of CHCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine - binding globulin , sex hormone - binding globulin , and cortisol - binding globulin .
The dose of replacement thyroid hormones or cortisol therapy may need to be increased .
5 . 15 Monitoring A woman who is using NuvaRing should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 16 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema , exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema .
5 . 17 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur , especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum .
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using NuvaRing .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of CHCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling .
• Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vascular events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by CHC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in clinical trials were : vaginitis , headache ( including migraine ) , mood changes ( e . g . , depression , mood swings , mood altered , depressed mood , affect lability ) , device - related events ( e . g . , expulsion / discomfort / foreign body sensation ) , nausea / vomiting , vaginal discharge , increased weight , vaginal discomfort , breast pain / discomfort / tenderness , dysmenorrhea , abdominal pain , acne , and decreased libido .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Merck , Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , at 1 - 877 - 888 - 4231 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Trials with a duration of 6 to 13 28 - day cycles provided safety data .
In total , 2 , 501 women , aged 18 to 41 contributed 24 , 520 cycles of exposure .
Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) : vaginitis ( 13 . 8 % ) , headache ( including migraine ) ( 11 . 2 % ) , mood changes ( e . g . , depression , mood swings , mood altered , depressed mood , affect lability ) ( 6 . 4 % ) , device - related events ( e . g . , expulsion / discomfort / foreign body sensation ) ( 6 . 3 % ) , nausea / vomiting ( 5 . 9 % ) , vaginal discharge ( 5 . 7 % ) , increased weight ( 4 . 9 % ) , vaginal discomfort ( 4 . 0 % ) , breast pain / discomfort / tenderness ( 3 . 8 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 3 . 5 % ) , abdominal pain ( 3 . 2 % ) , acne ( 2 . 4 % ) , and decreased libido ( 2 . 0 % ) .
Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) Leading to Study Discontinuation : 13 . 0 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trials due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were device - related events ( 2 . 7 % ) , mood changes ( 1 . 7 % ) , headache ( including migraine ) ( 1 . 5 % ) and vaginal symptoms ( 1 . 2 % ) .
Serious Adverse Reactions : deep vein thrombosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , anxiety , cholelithiasis , and vomiting .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of NuvaRing .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune system disorders : hypersensitivity Nervous system disorders : stroke / cerebrovascular accident Vascular disorders : arterial events ( including arterial thromboembolism and myocardial infarction ) , aggravation of varicose veins Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : urticaria , chloasma Reproductive system and breast disorders : penile disorders , including local reactions on penis ( in male partners of women using NuvaRing ) , galactorrhea 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , such as CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of CHCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with CHCs .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Effects of Other Drugs on CHCs Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of CHCs and potentially diminishing the effectiveness of CHCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) , may decrease the plasma concentrations of CHCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of CHCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include : phenytoin , barbiturates , carbamazepine , bosentan , felbamate , griseofulvin , oxcarbazepine , rifampicin , topiramate , rifabutin , rufinamide , aprepitant , and products containing St . John ' s wort .
Interactions between CHCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and / or contraceptive failure .
Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back - up method when enzyme inducers are used with NuvaRing , and to continue back - up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability .
The serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol were not affected by concomitant administration of oral amoxicillin or doxycycline in standard dosages during 10 days of antibiotic treatment .
The effects of other antibiotics on etonogestrel or ethinyl estradiol concentrations have not been evaluated .
Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of CHCs Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain CHCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 - 25 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole , voriconazole , fluconazole , grapefruit juice , or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations .
Co - administration of vaginal miconazole nitrate and NuvaRing increases the serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol by up to 40 % [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) / Hepatitis C Virus ( HCV ) protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes in the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and / or progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ] or increase [ e . g . , indinavir and atazanavir / ritonavir ] ) / HCV protease inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , boceprevir and telaprevir ] ) or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( decrease [ e . g . , nevirapine ] or increase [ e . g . , etravirine ] ) .
7 . 2 Effects of CHCs on Other Drugs CHCs containing ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds ( e . g . , cyclosporine , prednisolone , theophylline , tizanidine , and voriconazole ) and increase their plasma concentrations .
CHCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen , clofibric acid , morphine , salicylic acid and temazepam .
A significant decrease in the plasma concentrations of lamotrigine has been shown , likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control , therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid - binding globulin increase with use of CHCs .
7 . 3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Not recommended ; can decrease milk production .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use CHCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb - reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose CHCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of CHCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
CHCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers The effects of NuvaRing in nursing mothers have not been evaluated and are unknown .
When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has completely weaned her child .
CHCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well - established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of contraceptive steroids and / or metabolites are present in breast milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of NuvaRing have been established in women of reproductive age .
Efficacy is expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 and for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use NuvaRing has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of NuvaRing has not been studied .
Steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use until markers of liver function return to normal .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) . ]
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of NuvaRing has not been studied .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose of CHCs .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
If the ring breaks , it does not release a higher dose of hormones .
In case of suspected overdose , all NuvaRing rings should be removed and symptomatic treatment given .
11 DESCRIPTION NuvaRing ( etonogestrel / ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring ) is a non - biodegradable , flexible , transparent , colorless to almost colorless , combination contraceptive vaginal ring containing two active components , a progestin , etonogestrel ( 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - 11 - methylene - 18 , 19 - dinor - 17α - pregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one ) and an estrogen , ethinyl estradiol ( 19 - nor - 17α - pregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol ) .
When placed in the vagina , each ring releases on average 0 . 120 mg / day of etonogestrel and 0 . 015 mg / day of ethinyl estradiol over a three - week period of use .
NuvaRing is made of ethylene vinylacetate copolymers ( 28 % and 9 % vinylacetate ) and magnesium stearate and contains 11 . 7 mg etonogestrel and 2 . 7 mg ethinyl estradiol .
NuvaRing is not made with natural rubber latex .
NuvaRing has an outer diameter of 54 mm and a cross - sectional diameter of 4 mm .
The molecular weights for etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol are 324 . 46 and 296 . 40 , respectively .
The structural formulas are as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Combination hormonal contraceptives act by suppression of gonadotropins .
Although the primary effect of this action is inhibition of ovulation , other alterations include changes in the cervical mucus ( which increase the difficulty of sperm entry into the uterus ) and the endometrium ( which reduce the likelihood of implantation ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Etonogestrel : Etonogestrel released by NuvaRing is rapidly absorbed .
The bioavailability of etonogestrel after vaginal administration is approximately 100 % .
The serum etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol concentrations observed during three weeks of NuvaRing use are summarized in Table 2 .
Ethinyl estradiol : Ethinyl estradiol released by NuvaRing is rapidly absorbed .
The bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol after vaginal administration is approximately 56 % , which is comparable to that with oral administration of ethinyl estradiol .
The serum ethinyl estradiol concentrations observed during three weeks of NuvaRing use are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Mean ( SD ) Serum Etonogestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Concentrations ( n = 16 ) 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks etonogestrel ( pg / mL ) 1578 ( 408 ) 1476 ( 362 ) 1374 ( 328 ) ethinyl estradiol ( pg / mL ) 19 . 1 ( 4 . 5 ) 18 . 3 ( 4 . 3 ) 17 . 6 ( 4 . 3 ) The pharmacokinetic profile of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol during use of NuvaRing is shown in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 : Mean Serum Concentration - Time Profile of Etonogestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol during Three Weeks of NuvaRing Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] The pharmacokinetic parameters of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol were determined during one cycle of NuvaRing use in 16 healthy female subjects and are summarized in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters of NuvaRing ( n = 16 ) Hormone Cmax pg / mL Tmax hr t1 / 2 hr CL L / hr Cmax - maximum serum drug concentration Tmax - time at which maximum serum drug concentration occurs t1 / 2 - elimination half - life , calculated by 0 . 693 / Kelim CL - apparent clearance etonogestrel 1716 ( 445 ) 200 . 3 ( 69 . 6 ) 29 . 3 ( 6 . 1 ) 3 . 4 ( 0 . 8 ) ethinyl estradiol 34 . 7 ( 17 . 5 ) 59 . 3 ( 67 . 5 ) 44 . 7 ( 28 . 8 ) 34 . 8 ( 11 . 6 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Prolonged use of NuvaRing : The mean serum etonogestrel concentration at the end of the fourth week of continuous use of NuvaRing was 1272 ± 311 pg / mL compared to a mean concentration range of 1578 ± 408 to 1374 ± 328 pg / mL at the end of weeks one to three .
The mean serum ethinyl estradiol concentration at the end of the fourth week of continuous use of NuvaRing was 16 . 8 ± 4 . 6 pg / mL compared to a mean concentration range of 19 . 1 ± 4 . 5 to 17 . 6 ± 4 . 3 pg / mL at the end of weeks one to three .
Distribution Etonogestrel : Etonogestrel is approximately 32 % bound to sex hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) and approximately 66 % bound to albumin in blood .
Ethinyl estradiol : Ethinyl estradiol is highly but not specifically bound to serum albumin ( 98 . 5 % ) and induces an increase in the serum concentrations of SHBG .
Metabolism In vitro data shows that both etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol are metabolized in liver microsomes by the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme .
Ethinyl estradiol is primarily metabolized by aromatic hydroxylation , but a wide variety of hydroxylated and methylated metabolites are formed .
These are present as free metabolites and as sulfate and glucuronide conjugates .
The hydroxylated ethinyl estradiol metabolites have weak estrogenic activity .
The biological activity of etonogestrel metabolites is unknown .
Excretion Etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol are primarily eliminated in urine , bile and feces .
Drug Interactions [ See also Drug Interactions ( 7 ) . ]
The drug interactions of NuvaRing were evaluated in several studies .
A single - dose vaginal administration of an oil - based 1200 - mg miconazole nitrate capsule increased the serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol by approximately 17 % and 16 % , respectively .
Following multiple doses of 200 mg miconazole nitrate by vaginal suppository or vaginal cream , the mean serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol increased by up to 40 % .
A single - dose vaginal administration of 100 - mg water - based nonoxynol - 9 spermicide gel did not affect the serum concentrations of etonogestrel or ethinyl estradiol .
The serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol were not affected by concomitant administration of oral amoxicillin or doxycycline in standard dosages during 10 days of antibiotic treatment .
Tampon Use The use of tampons had no effect on serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol during use of NuvaRing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study in rats with subdermal implants releasing 10 and 20 mcg etonogestrel per day , ( approximately 0 . 3 and 0 . 6 times the systemic steady - state exposure of women using NuvaRing ) , no drug - related carcinogenic potential was observed .
Etonogestrel was not genotoxic in the in vitro Ames / Salmonella reverse mutation assay , the chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Fertility returned in rats after withdrawal from treatment .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In three large one - year clinical trials enrolling 2 , 834 women aged 18 - 40 years , in North America , Europe , Brazil , and Chile , the racial distribution was 93 % Caucasian , 5 . 0 % Black , 0 . 8 % Asian , and 1 . 2 % Other .
Women with BMI ≥ 30 kg / m2 were excluded from these studies .
Based on pooled data from the three trials , 2 , 356 women aged < 35 years completed 23 , 515 evaluable cycles of NuvaRing use ( cycles in which no back - up contraception was used ) .
The pooled pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index ) was 1 . 28 ( 95 % CI [ 0 . 8 , 1 . 9 ] ) per 100 women - years of NuvaRing use .
In the US study , the Pearl Index was 2 . 02 ( 95 % CI [ 1 . 1 , 3 . 4 ] ) per 100 women - years of NuvaRing use .
15 REFERENCES • Dinger , J et .
al . , Cardiovascular risk associated with the use of an etonogestrel - containing vaginal ring .
Obstetrics & Gynecology 2013 ; 122 ( 4 ) : 800 - 808 .
• Sidney , S . et .
al . , Recent combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) and the risk of thromboembolism and other cardiovascular events in new users .
Contraception 2013 ; 87 : 93 – 100 .
• Combined hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) and the risk of cardiovascular endpoints .
Sidney , S . ( primary author ) http : / / www . fda . gov / downloads / Drugs / DrugSafety / UCM277384 . pdf , accessed 23 - Aug - 2013 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each NuvaRing ( etonogestrel / ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring ) is individually packaged in a reclosable aluminum laminate sachet consisting of three layers , from outside to inside : polyester , aluminum foil , and low - density polyethylene .
The ring should be replaced in this reclosable sachet after use and discarded in a waste receptacle out of the reach of children and pets .
It should not be flushed down the toilet .
Box of 3 sachets NDC 0052 - 0273 - 03 16 . 1 Storage Prior to dispensing to the user , store refrigerated 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
After dispensing to the user , NuvaRing can be stored for up to 4 months at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid storing NuvaRing in direct sunlight or at temperatures above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
For the Dispenser : When NuvaRing is dispensed to the user , place an expiration date on the label .
The date should not exceed either 4 months from the date of dispensing or the expiration date , whichever comes first .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Counsel patients regarding the following : • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from use of NuvaRing , and women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use NuvaRing .
• The increased risk of VTE compared to non - users of CHCs is greatest after initially starting a CHC or restarting ( following a 4 - week or greater CHC - free interval ) the same or a different CHC .
• NuvaRing does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
• The Warnings and Precautions associated with NuvaRing .
• NuvaRing is not to be used during pregnancy .
If pregnancy is planned or occurs during treatment with NuvaRing , instruct the patient to discontinue NuvaRing use .
• The proper usage of NuvaRing and what to do if she does not comply with the labeled timing of insertion and removal .
• The need to use a barrier method of contraception when the ring is out for more than three continuous hours until NuvaRing has been used continuously for at least seven days .
• The proper disposal of a used NuvaRing .
• Use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with NuvaRing .
• CHCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Women who start NuvaRing postpartum and have not yet had a normal period should use an additional non - hormonal method of contraception for the first seven days .
• Amenorrhea may occur .
Rule out pregnancy in the event of amenorrhea if NuvaRing has been out of the vagina for more than three consecutive hours , if the ring - free interval was extended beyond one week , if the woman has missed a period for two or more consecutive cycles , and if the ring has been retained for longer than four weeks .
Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA Manufactured by : N . V . Organon , Oss , The Netherlands , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html Copyright © 2001 - 2012 Merck Sharp & Dohme B . V . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
uspi - mk8342a - rng - 1411r006 Patient Information NuvaRing ® ( NEW - vah - ring ) ( etonogestrel / ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring ) What is the most important information I should know about NuvaRing ?
Do not use NuvaRing if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects ( heart and blood vessel problems ) from combination hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Hormonal birth control methods help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted infections .
What is NuvaRing ?
NuvaRing ( NEW - vah - ring ) is a flexible birth control vaginal ring used to prevent pregnancy .
NuvaRing contains a combination of a progestin and estrogen , 2 kinds of female hormones .
Birth control methods that contain both an estrogen and a progestin are called combination hormonal contraceptives ( CHCs ) .
How well does NuvaRing work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for using NuvaRing .
The better you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a US clinical study , approximately 1 to 3 women out of 100 women may get pregnant during the first year they use NuvaRing .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not use NuvaRing ?
Do not use NuvaRing if you : • smoke and are over 35 years old • have or have had blood clots in your arms , legs , eyes or lungs • have an inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • have had a stroke • have had a heart attack • have certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm problems that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • have high blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • have diabetes with kidney , eye , nerve , or blood vessel damage • have certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness , or changes in vision , or have any migraine headaches if you are over age 35 • have liver disease , including liver tumors • have unexplained vaginal bleeding • are pregnant or think you may be pregnant .
NuvaRing is not for pregnant women .
• have or have had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • are allergic to etonogestrel , ethinyl estradiol or any of the ingredients in NuvaRing .
See the list of ingredients in NuvaRing at the end of this leaflet .
Hormonal birth control methods may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy or related to previous use of hormonal birth control .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have ever had any of the conditions listed above .
Your healthcare provider can suggest another method of birth control .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using NuvaRing ?
Before you use NuvaRing tell your healthcare provider if you : • have any medical conditions • smoke • are pregnant or think you are pregnant • recently had a baby • recently had a miscarriage or abortion • have a family history of breast cancer • have or have had breast nodules , fibrocystic disease , an abnormal breast x - ray , or abnormal mammogram • use tampons and have a history of toxic shock syndrome • have been diagnosed with depression • have had liver problems including jaundice during pregnancy • have or have had elevated cholesterol or triglycerides • have or have had gallbladder , liver , heart , or kidney disease • have diabetes • have a history of jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy ( also called cholestasis of pregnancy ) • have a history of scanty or irregular menstrual periods • have any condition that makes the vagina become irritated easily • have or have had high blood pressure • have or have had migraines or other headaches or seizures • are scheduled for surgery .
NuvaRing may increase your risk of blood clots after surgery .
You should stop using NuvaRing at least 4 weeks before you have surgery and not restart it until at least 2 weeks after your surgery .
• are scheduled for any laboratory tests .
Certain blood tests may be affected by hormonal birth control methods .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Hormonal birth control methods that contain estrogen , like NuvaRing , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of hormones from NuvaRing may pass into your breast milk .
Consider another non - hormonal method of birth control until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines and herbal products you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some medicines and herbal products may make hormonal birth control less effective , including , but not limited to : • certain anti - seizure medicines ( such as barbiturates , carbamazepine , felbamate , oxcarbazepine , phenytoin , rufinamide , topiramate ) • medicine to treat fungal infections ( griseofulvin ) • certain combinations of HIV medicines , ( such as nelfinavir , ritonavir , darunavir / ritonavir , ( fos ) amprenavir / ritonavir , lopinavir / ritonavir , and tipranavir / ritonavir ) • certain hepatitis C ( HCV ) medicines ( such as boceprevir , telaprevir ) • non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( such as nevirapine ) • medicine to treat tuberculosis ( such as rifampicin and rifabutin ) • medicine to treat high blood pressure in the vessels of the lung ( bosentan ) • medicine to treat chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting ( aprepitant ) • St John ' s wort Use an additional birth control method ( such as a male condom with spermicide ) when you take medicines that may make NuvaRing less effective .
Continue back - up birth control for 28 days after stopping the medicine to help prevent you from becoming pregnant .
Some medicines and grapefruit juice may increase the level of ethinyl estradiol in your blood if used together , including : • the pain reliever acetaminophen • ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) • medicines that affect how your liver breaks down other medicines ( such as itraconazole , ketoconazole , voriconazole , and fluconazole ) • certain HIV medicines ( atazanavir / ritonavir , indinavir ) • non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( such as etravirine ) • medicines to lower cholesterol such as atorvastatin and rosuvastatin Hormonal birth control methods may interact with lamotrigine , a medicine used for seizures .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your healthcare provider may need to adjust your dose of lamotrigine .
Women on thyroid replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone .
Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you take any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
• How should I use NuvaRing ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information that comes with your NuvaRing for information about the right way to use NuvaRing .
• Use NuvaRing exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• NuvaRing is used in a 4 week cycle .
• Insert 1 NuvaRing in the vagina and keep it in place for 3 weeks ( 21 days ) .
• Remove the NuvaRing for a 1 week break ( 7 days ) .
During the 1 - week break ( 7 days ) , you will usually have your menstrual period .
Note : Insert and remove NuvaRing on the same day of the week and at the same time : • For example , if you insert your NuvaRing on a Monday at 8 : 00 am , you should remove it on the Monday 3 weeks later at 8 : 00 am .
• After your 1 week ( 7 days ) break , you should insert a new NuvaRing on the next Monday at 8 : 00 am .
• While using NuvaRing , you should not use a vaginal diaphragm as your back - up method of birth control because NuvaRing may interfere with the correct placement and position of a diaphragm .
• Use of spermicides or vaginal yeast products will not make NuvaRing less effective at preventing pregnancy .
• Use of tampons will not make NuvaRing less effective or stop NuvaRing from working .
• If NuvaRing has been left inside your vagina for more than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) , you may not be protected from pregnancy and you should see your healthcare provider to be sure you are not pregnant .
Until you know the results of your pregnancy test , you should use an extra method of birth control , such as male condoms with spermicide , until the new NuvaRing has been in place for 7 days in a row .
• Do not use more than 1 NuvaRing at a time .
Too much hormonal birth control medicine in your body may cause nausea , vomiting , or vaginal bleeding .
Your healthcare provider should examine you at least 1 time a year to see if you have any signs of side effects from using NuvaRing .
What are the possible side effects of using NuvaRing ?
See " What is the most important information I should know about NuvaRing ? "
NuvaRing may cause serious side effects , including : • blood clots .
Like pregnancy , combination hormonal birth control methods increase the risk of serious blood clots ( see following graph ) , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age greater than 35 .
This increased risk is highest when you first start using a combination hormonal birth control method or when you restart the same or different combination hormonal birth control method after not using it for a month or more .
Talk with your healthcare provider about your risk of getting a blood clot before using NuvaRing or before deciding which type of birth control is right for you .
• In some studies of women who used NuvaRing , the risk of getting a blood clot was similar to the risk in women who used combination birth control pills .
• Other studies have reported that the risk of blood clots was higher for women who use combination birth control pills containing desogestrel ( a progestin similar to the progestin in NuvaRing ) than for women who use combination birth control pills that do not contain desogestrel .
• It is possible to die or be permanently disabled from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as heart attack or stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • legs ( deep vein thrombosis ) • lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • heart ( heart attack ) • brain ( stroke ) • To put the risk of developing a blood clot into perspective : If 10 , 000 women who are not pregnant and do not use hormonal birth control are followed for one year , between 1 and 5 of these women will develop a blood clot .
The figure below shows the likelihood of developing a serious blood clot for women who are not pregnant and do not use hormonal birth control , for women who use hormonal birth control , for pregnant women , and for women in the first 12 weeks after delivering a baby .
• Likelihood of Developing a Serious Blood Clot ( Venous Thromboembolism [ VTE ] ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • * CHC = combination hormonal contraception • ** Pregnancy data based on actual duration of pregnancy in the reference studies .
Based on a model assumption that pregnancy duration is nine months , the rate is 7 to 27 per 10 , 000 WY .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • leg pain that does not go away • sudden shortness of breath • sudden blindness , partial or complete • severe pain or pressure in your chest • sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • yellowing of the skin or eyeballs Other serious risks include : • Toxic Shock Syndrome ( TSS ) .
Some of the symptoms are much the same as the flu , but they can become serious very quickly .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency treatment right away if you have the following symptoms : • sudden high fever • vomiting • diarrhea • a sunburn - like rash • muscle aches • dizziness • fainting or feeling faint when standing up • liver problems , including liver tumors • high blood pressure • gallbladder problems • accidental insertion into bladder • symptoms of a problem called angioedema if you already have a family history of angioedema The most common side effects of NuvaRing are : • tissue irritation inside your vagina or on your cervix • headache ( including migraine ) • mood changes ( including depression , especially if you had depression in the past ) .
Call your healthcare provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• NuvaRing problems , including the ring slipping out or causing discomfort • nausea and vomiting • vaginal discharge • weight gain • vaginal discomfort • breast pain , discomfort , or tenderness • painful menstrual periods • abdominal pain • acne • less sexual desire Some women have spotting or light bleeding during NuvaRing use .
If these symptoms occur , do not stop using NuvaRing .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
Other side effects seen with NuvaRing include allergic reaction , hives , breast discharge , and penis discomfort of the partner ( such as irritation , rash , itching ) .
Less common side effects seen with combination hormonal birth control include : • Blotchy darkening of your skin , especially on your face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat ( cholesterol , triglycerides ) levels in the blood Tell your healthcare provider about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of NuvaRing .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store NuvaRing and throw away used NuvaRings ?
• Store NuvaRing at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store NuvaRing at room temperature for up to 4 months after you receive it .
Throw NuvaRing away if the expiration date on the label has passed .
• Do not store NuvaRing above 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Avoid direct sunlight • Place the used NuvaRing in the re - closable foil pouch and properly throw it away in your household trash out of the reach of children and pets .
Do not flush your used NuvaRing down the toilet .
Keep NuvaRing and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of NuvaRing Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Patient Information .
Do not use NuvaRing for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NuvaRing to other people .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about NuvaRing .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about NuvaRing that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . nuvaring . com or call 1 - 877 - NUVARING ( 1 - 877 - 688 - 2746 ) .
What are the ingredients in NuvaRing ?
Active ingredients : etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol Inactive ingredients : ethylene vinylacetate copolymers ( 28 % and 9 % vinylacetate ) and magnesium stearate .
NuvaRing is not made with natural rubber latex .
Do Hormonal Birth Control Methods Cause Cancer ?
Hormonal birth control methods do not seem to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now or have had it in the past , do not use hormonal birth control , including NuvaRing , because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use hormonal birth control methods may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
What should I know about my period when using NuvaRing ?
When you use NuvaRing you may have bleeding and spotting between periods , called unplanned bleeding .
Unplanned bleeding may vary from slight staining between menstrual periods to breakthrough bleeding , which is a flow much like a regular period .
Unplanned bleeding occurs most often during the first few months of NuvaRing use , but may also occur after you have been using NuvaRing for some time .
Such bleeding may be temporary and usually does not indicate any serious problems .
It is important to continue using the ring on schedule .
If the unplanned bleeding or spotting is heavy or lasts for more than a few days , you should discuss this with your healthcare provider .
What if I miss my regular scheduled period when using NuvaRing ?
Some women miss periods on hormonal birth control , even when they are not pregnant .
Consider the possibility that you may be pregnant if : • you miss a period and NuvaRing was out of the vagina for more than 3 hours during the 3 weeks ( 21 days ) of ring use • you miss a period and waited longer than 1 week to insert a new ring • you have followed the instructions and you miss 2 periods in a row • you have left NuvaRing in place for longer than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) What if I want to become pregnant ?
You may stop using NuvaRing whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your healthcare provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop using NuvaRing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use NuvaRing ( NEW - vah - ring ) ( etonogestrel / ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring ) Read these Instructions for Use before you start using NuvaRing and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your treatment .
How should I start using NuvaRing ?
If you are not currently using hormonal birth control , you have 2 ways to start using NuvaRing .
Choose the best way for you : • First Day Start : Insert NuvaRing on the first day of your menstrual period .
You will not need to use another birth control method since you are using NuvaRing on the first day of your menstrual period .
• Day 2 to Day 5 Cycle Start : You may choose to start NuvaRing on days 2 to 5 of your menstrual period .
Make sure you also use an extra method of birth control ( barrier method ) , such as male condoms with spermicide for the first 7 days of NuvaRing use in the first cycle .
If you are changing from a birth control pill or patch to NuvaRing : If you have been using your birth control method correctly and are certain that you are not pregnant , you can change to NuvaRing any day .
Do not start NuvaRing any later than the day you would start your next birth control pill or apply your patch .
If you are changing from a progestin - only birth control method , such as a minipill , implant or injection or from an intrauterine system ( IUS ) : • You may switch from a minipill on any day .
Start using NuvaRing on the day that you would have taken your next minipill .
• You should switch from an implant or the IUS and start using NuvaRing on the day that you remove the implant or IUS • You should switch from an injectable and start using NuvaRing on the day when your next injection would be due .
If you are changing from a minipill , implant or injection or from an intrauterine system ( IUS ) , you should use an extra method of birth control , such as a male condom with spermicide during the first 7 days of using NuvaRing .
If you start using NuvaRing after an abortion or miscarriage : • Following a first trimester abortion or miscarriage : You may start NuvaRing within 5 days following a first trimester abortion or miscarriage ( the first 12 weeks of pregnancy ) .
You do not need to use an additional birth control method .
• If you do not start NuvaRing within 5 days after a first trimester abortion or miscarriage , use a non - hormonal birth control method , such as male condoms and spermicide , while you wait for your period to start .
Begin NuvaRing at the time of your next menstrual period .
Count the first day of your menstrual period as " Day 1 " and start NuvaRing one of the following 2 ways below .
• First Day Start : Insert NuvaRing on the first day of your menstrual period .
You will not need to use another birth control method since you are using NuvaRing on the first day of your menstrual period .
• Day 2 to Day 5 Cycle Start : You may choose to start NuvaRing on Days 2 to 5 of your menstrual period .
Make sure you also use an extra method of birth control ( barrier method ) , such as male condoms with spermicide for the first 7 days of NuvaRing use in the first cycle .
• Following a second trimester abortion or miscarriage : You may start using NuvaRing no sooner than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) after a second trimester abortion ( after the first 12 weeks of pregnancy ) .
If you are starting NuvaRing after childbirth : • You may start using NuvaRing no sooner than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) after having a baby if you are not breastfeeding .
• If you have not gotten your menstrual period after childbirth , you should talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need a pregnancy test to make sure you are not pregnant before you start using NuvaRing .
• Use another birth control method such as male condoms with spermicide for the first 7 days in addition to NuvaRing .
If you are breastfeeding you should not use NuvaRing .
Use other birth control methods until you are no longer breastfeeding .
Step 1 .
Choose a position for insertion of NuvaRing .
• Choose the position that is comfortable for you .
For example , lying down , squatting , or standing with 1 leg up ( See Figures A , B , and C ) .
Positions for NuvaRing insertion [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Open the pouch to remove your NuvaRing .
• Each NuvaRing comes in a re - sealable foil pouch .
• Wash and dry your hands before removing NuvaRing from the foil pouch .
• Open the foil pouch at either notch near the top .
• Keep the foil pouch so you can place your used NuvaRing in it before you throw it away in your household trash .
Step 3 .
Prepare NuvaRing for insertion .
• Hold NuvaRing between your thumb and index finger and press the sides of the ring together ( See Figures D and E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Insert NuvaRing into your vagina .
• Insert the folded NuvaRing into your vagina and gently push it further up into your vagina using your index finger ( See Figure F and G ) .
• When you insert NuvaRing it may be in different positions in your vagina , but NuvaRing does not have to be in an exact position for it to work ( See Figure H and I ) .
• NuvaRing may move around slightly within your vagina .
This is normal .
Although some women may be aware of NuvaRing in the vagina , most women do not feel it when it is in place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inserting NuvaRing ( Figure F , Figure G ) and positioning NuvaRing ( Figure H , Figure I ) Note : • If the NuvaRing feels uncomfortable , you may not have pushed the ring into your vagina far enough .
Use your finger to gently push the NuvaRing as far as you can into your vagina .
There is no danger of NuvaRing being pushed too far up in the vagina or getting lost ( See Figure G ) .
• Some women have accidently inserted NuvaRing into their bladder .
If you have pain during or after insertion and you cannot find NuvaRing in your vagina , call your healthcare provider right away .
Step 5 .
How do I remove NuvaRing ?
• Wash and dry your hands .
• Choose the position that is most comfortable for you ( See Figures A , B , and C ) .
• Put your index finger into your vagina and hook it through the NuvaRing .
Gently pull downward and forward to remove the NuvaRing and pull it out ( See Figure J ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
Throw away the used NuvaRing .
• Place the used NuvaRing in the re - sealable foil pouch and put it in a trash can out of the reach of children and pets .
• Do not throw NuvaRing in the toilet .
What else should I know about using NuvaRing ?
What If I leave NuvaRing in too long ?
• If you leave NuvaRing in your vagina for up to 4 weeks ( 28 days ) you will still be getting pregnancy protection .
Remove your old NuvaRing for 1 week ( 7 days ) and insert a new NuvaRing 1 week ( 7 days ) later ( See Steps 1 through 4 ) .
• If you leave NuvaRing in your vagina longer than 4 weeks ( 28 days ) , remove the ring and check to make sure you are not pregnant .
If you are not pregnant , insert a new NuvaRing ( See Steps 1 through 4 ) .
You must use another birth control method , such as male condoms with spermicide , until the new NuvaRing has been used for 7 days in a row .
What should I do if my NuvaRing comes out of my vagina ?
NuvaRing can slip or accidentally come out ( expelled ) of your vagina , for example , during sexual intercourse , bowel movements , use of tampons , or if it breaks .
• NuvaRing may break causing the ring to lose its shape .
If the ring stays in your vagina this should not lower NuvaRing ' s effectiveness at preventing pregnancy .
• If NuvaRing breaks and slips out of your vagina , throw the broken ring in your household trash out of the reach of children and pets .
• Insert a new NuvaRing ( See Steps 1 through 4 ) .
• You should pay attention when removing a tampon to be sure that your NuvaRing is not accidentally pulled out .
• Be sure to insert NuvaRing before inserting a tampon .
• If you accidentally pull out your NuvaRing while using tampons , rinse your NuvaRing in cool to lukewarm ( not hot ) water and insert it again right away .
• NuvaRing can be pushed out of ( expelled from ) your vagina , for example , during sexual intercourse or during a bowel movement .
• If the expelled ring has been out of your vagina for less than 3 hours , rinse the expelled NuvaRing in cool to lukewarm ( not hot ) water and insert it again right away .
• If the expelled NuvaRing has been out of your vagina for more than 3 continuous hours : • During Weeks 1 and 2 , you may not be protected from pregnancy .
Reinsert the ring as soon as you remember ( See Steps 1 through 4 ) .
Use another birth control method , such as male condoms with spermicide , until the ring has been in place for 7 days in a row .
• During Week 3 , do not reinsert the NuvaRing that has been out of your vagina ; but throw it away in your household trash away from children and pets .
Use another birth control method , such as male condoms with spermicide , until the new NuvaRing has been used for 7 days in a row , following one of the two options below : • - Option 1 .
Insert a new ring right away to start your next 21 Day NuvaRing use cycle .
You may not have your regular period but you may have spotting or vaginal bleeding .
• - Option 2 .
Insert a new ring no later than 7 days from the time the previous ring was removed or expelled .
During this time , you may have your period .
Note : You should only choose to do option 2 if you used NuvaRing for 7 days in a row , prior to the day that your previous NuvaRing was accidently removed or expelled .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp . , a subsidiary of MERCK & CO . , INC . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA Manufactured by : N . V . Organon , Oss , The Netherlands , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc . , Whitehouse Station , NJ 08889 , USA For patent information : www . merck . com / product / patent / home . html Copyright © 2001 - 2012 Merck Sharp & Dohme B . V . , a subsidiary of Merck & Co . , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Revised : 10 / 2014 usppi - mk8342a - rng - 1410r006 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 Pouch Box Label CommUnityCare Federally Qualified Health Centers NUVARING 3 ' S Date : Name : Dr . Place a new NuvaRing into vagina as directed every 4 weeks ; remove at the end of week # 3 .
123456 1 / 1 / 01 NUVARING 3 ' S NDC 76413 - 131 - 03 Batch : 123456 Lot : 123456 Exp : 1 / 1 / 01 MERCK Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any other person than the patient for whom prescribed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
