[ MULTIMEDIA ] WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mm Hg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in Black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics .
Benazepril hydrochloride is an angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Adult Patients : Initiate with 10 mg once daily ( or 5 mg if patient is on diuretic ) .
Titrate to 40 mg daily based on blood pressure response .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Pediatric patients age 6 years and above with glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 : Initiate with 0 . 2 mg / kg once daily .
Maximum dose is 0 . 6 mg / kg once daily .
• • Renal Impairment : Initiate with 5 mg once daily in patients with GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( serum creatinine > 3 mg / dL ) ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage ADULTS The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 10 mg once a day .
The usual maintenance dosage range is 20 to 40 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses .
A dose of 80 mg gives an increased response , but experience with this dose is limited .
The divided regimen was more effective in controlling trough ( pre - dosing ) blood pressure than the same dose given as a once - daily regimen .
Use with diuretics in adults The recommended starting dose of benazepril hydrochloride tablets in a patient on a diuretic is 5 mg once daily .
If blood pressure is not controlled with benazepril hydrochloride alone , a low dose of diuretic may be added .
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 6 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients is 0 . 2 mg / kg once per day .
Titrate as needed to 0 . 6 mg / kg once per day .
Doses above 0 . 6 mg / kg ( or in excess of 40 mg daily ) have not been studied in pediatric patients .
Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment For adults with a GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( serum creatinine > 3 mg / dL ) , the recommended initial dose is 5 mg benazepril hydrochloride tablets once daily .
Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 40 mg .
Benazepril hydrochloride tablets can also worsen renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Preparation of Suspension ( for 150 mL of a 2 mg / mL Suspension ) Add 75 mL of Ora - Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) bottle containing fifteen benazepril hydrochloride 20 mg tablets , and shake for at least two minutes .
Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour .
After the standing time , shake the suspension for a minimum of one additional minute .
Add 75 mL of Ora - Sweet ® * oral syrup vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients .
The suspension should be refrigerated at 2 ° to8 ° C ( 36 ° to46 ° F ) and can be stored for up to 30 days in the PET bottle with a child - resistant screw - cap closure .
Shake the suspension before each use .
* Ora - Plus ® and Ora - Sweet ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories , Inc .
Ora Plus ® contains carrageenan , citric acid , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , potassium sorbate , simethicone , sodium phosphate monobasic , xanthan gum , and water .
Ora - Sweet ® contains citric acid , berry citrus flavorant , glycerin , methylparaben , potassium sorbate , sodium phosphate monobasic , sorbitol , sucrose , and water .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg • • Each 5 mg tablet is white with “ S ” on one side and “ 341 ” on the other • • Each 10 mg tablet is red with “ S ” on one side and “ 342 ” on the other • • Each 20 mg tablet is grey with “ S ” on one side and “ 343 ” on the other • • Each 40 mg tablet is blue with “ S ” on one side and “ 344 ” on the other • • Tablets : 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , 40 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients : • • who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to any other ACE inhibitor • • with a history of angioedema with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer benazepril hydrochloride tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors ; including benazepril hydrochloride tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• • Angioedema or history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) • • Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) • • Co - administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Angioedema : Discontinue benazepril hydrochloride and treat appropriately .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Monitor renal function periodically .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Monitor blood pressure after initiation .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hyperkalemia : Monitor serum potassium periodically .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Hepatic toxicity : Monitor for jaundice or signs of liver failure .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity PREGNANCY CATEGORY D Benazepril hydrochloride tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride tablets as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions Angioedema Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and / or larynx including some fatal reactions , have occured in patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
Benazepril hydrochloride should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms of angioedema has occurred .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non - Black patients .
Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) ] .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has occurred in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
In some cases , the angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Dialysis Sudden and potentially life threatening anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride .
Changes in renal function , including acute renal failure , can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin sytem .
Patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , post - myocardial infarction , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on benazepril hydrochloride .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on benazepril hydrochloride .
5 . 4 Hypotension Benazepril hydrochloride can cause symptomatic hypotension , sometimes complicated by oliguria , progressive azotemia , acute renal failure , or death .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension include those with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mm Hg , ischemic heart disease , cerebrovascular disease , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
In such patients , follow closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of benazepril or diuretic is increased .
Avoid use of benazepril hydrochloride in patients who are hemodynamically unstable after acute MI .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , benazepril hydrochloride may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs , correct by volume expansion .
5 . 5 Hyperkalemia Serum potassium should be monitored periodically in patients receiving benazepril hydrochloride .
Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatic Failure ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Benazepril hydrochloride has been evaluated for safety in over 6000 patients with hypertension ; over 700 of these patients were treated for at least one year .
The overall incidence of reported adverse events was similar in benazepril hydrochloride and placebo patients .
The reported side effects were generally mild and transient , and there was no relation between side effects and age , duration of therapy , or total dosage within the range of 2 to 80 mg .
Discontinuation of therapy because of a side effect was required in approximately 5 % of U . S . patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride and in 3 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation were headache ( 0 . 6 % ) and cough ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Adverse reactions seen in at least 1 % greater frequency in patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride than placebo were headache ( 6 % vs . 4 % ) , dizziness ( 4 % vs . 2 % ) , somnolence ( 2 % vs . 0 % ) and postural dizziness ( 2 % vs . 0 % ) .
Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials ( less than 1 % more on benazepril than on placebo ) , and rarer events seen in post - marketing experience , include the following ( in some , a causal relationship to drug use is uncertain ) : Dermatologic : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pemphigus , apparent hypersensitivity reactions ( manifested by dermatitis , pruritus , or rash ) , photosensitivity , and flushing .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , pancreatitis , constipation , gastritis , vomiting , and melena .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia and hemolytic anemia .
Neurologic / Psychiatric : Anxiety , decreased libido , hypertonia , insomnia , nervousness , and paresthesia .
Other : Fatigue , asthma , bronchitis , dyspnea , sinusitis , urinary tract infection , frequent urination , infection , arthritis , impotence , alopecia , arthralgia , myalgia , asthenia , sweating .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Elevations of uric acid , blood glucose , serum bilirubin , and liver enzymes [ see Adverse Reactions S ( 5 ) ] have been reported , as have incidents of hyponatremia , electrocardiographic changes , eosinophilia , and proteinuria .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were headache ( 0 . 6 % ) and cough ( 0 . 5 % ) ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Solco Healthcare US , LLC at 1 - 866 - 257 - 2597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Diuretics : Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7 . 1 ) • • Antidiabetics : Increased risk of hypoglycaemia ( 7 . 2 ) • • NSAIDS : Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7 . 3 ) • • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 4 ) • • Lithium : Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 6 ) • • Neprilysin Inhibitor : Increased risk of angioedema ( 7 . 7 ) • • Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( 7 . 8 ) 7 . 1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics , especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with benazepril hydrochloride can be minimized by either discontinuing or decreasing the dose of diuretic prior to initiation of treatment with benazepril hydrochloride [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperkalemia Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , monitor the patient ’ s serum potassium frequently .
Benazepril hydrochloride attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
7 . 2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of benazepril hydrochloride and antidiabetic medicines ( insulins , oral hypoglycemic agents ) may increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual Blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on benazepril hydrochloride and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
7 . 5 Mammalian Target of Rapamycin ( mTOR ) Inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema .
Monitor for signs of angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 6 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with benazepril hydrochloride .
Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium or benazepril hydrochloride .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concurrent use .
7 . 7 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ] .
7 . 8 Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pediatrics : Safety and effectiveness have not been established in patients < 6 years of age or with GFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( 8 . 3 ) • • Race : Less antihypertensive effect in Blacks as monotherapy ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Benazepril hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the general U . S . population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to benazepril hydrochloride for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria or hypotension occur in neonates with a history of in utero exposure to benazepril hydrochloride , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 2 Lactation Minimal amounts of unchanged benazepril and of benazeprilat are excreted into the breast milk of lactating women treated with benazepril .
A newborn child ingesting entirely breast milk would receive less than 0 . 1 % of the mg / kg maternal dose of benazepril and benazeprilat .
8 . 3 Pediatric Use The antihypertensive effects of benazepril hydrochloride have been evaluated in a double - blind study in pediatric patients 7 to 16 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of benazepril hydrochloride have been evaluated in pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Infants below the age of 1 year should not be given benazepril hydrochloride because of the risk of effects on kidney development .
Safety and effectiveness of benazepril hydrochloride have not been established in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in children with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m ² [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 4 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received benazepril in U . S . clinical studies of benazepril hydrochloride , 18 % were 65 or older while 2 % were 75 or older .
No overall differences in effectiveness or safety were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Benazepril and benazeprilat are substantially excreted by the kidney .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Race ACE inhibitors , including benazepril hydrochloride , as monotherapy , have an effect on blood pressure that is less in Black patients than in non - Blacks .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Dose adjustment of benazepril hydrochloride is required in patients undergoing hemodialysis or whose creatinine clearance is ≤ 30 mL / min .
No dose adjustment of benazepril hydrochloride is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Single oral doses of 3 g / kg benazepril were associated with significant lethality in mice .
Rats , however , tolerated single oral doses of up to 6 g / kg .
Reduced activity was seen at 1 g / kg in mice and at 5 g / kg in rats .
Human overdoses of benazepril have not been reported , but the most common manifestation of human benazepril overdosage is likely to be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Hypotension can be associated with electrolyte disturbances and renal failure .
Benazepril is only slightly dialyzable , but consider dialysis to support patients with severely impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
If ingestion is recent , consider activated charcoal .
Consider gastric decontamination ( e . g . , vomiting , gastric lavage ) in the early period after ingestion .
Monitor for blood pressure and clinical symptoms .
Supportive management should be employed to ensure adequate hydration and to maintain systemic blood pressure .
In the case of marked hypotension , infuse physiological saline solution ; as needed , consider vasopressors ( e . g . , catecholamines i . v . ) .
11 DESCRIPTION Benazepril hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder , soluble ( > 100 mg / mL ) in water , in ethanol , and in methanol .
Its chemical name is benazepril 3 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxy - carbonyl ) - 3 - phenyl - ( 1 S ) - propyl ] amino ] - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 2 - oxo - 1 H - 1 - ( 3 S ) - benzazepine - 1 - acetic acid monohydrochloride ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C24H28N2O5 • HCl and its molecular weight is 460 . 96 .
Benazeprilat , the active metabolite of benazepril , is a non - sulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor .
Benazepril hydrochloride is supplied as film - coated tablets containing 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg of benazepril hydrochloride for oral administration .
The inactive ingredients are carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
The 10 mg tablet also contains FD & C Red No . 40 aluminum lake .
The 20 mg tablet also contains black iron oxide and yellow iron oxide .
The 40 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake .
Benazepril hydrochloride tablets USP , 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg and 40 mg meet USP Dissolution Test 2 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benazepril and benazeprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
Benazeprilat has much greater ACE inhibitory activity than does benazepril .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In animal studies , benazepril had no inhibitory effect on the vasopressor response to angiotensin II and did not interfere with the hemodynamic effects of the autonomic neurotransmitters acetylcholine , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of benazepril hydrochloride remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which benazepril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , benazepril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Single and multiple doses of 10 mg or more of benazepril hydrochloride cause inhibition of plasma ACE activity by at least 80 to 90 % for at least 24 hours after dosing .
Pressor responses to exogenous angiotensin I were inhibited by 60 % - 90 % ( up to 4 hours post - dose ) at the 10 mg dose .
Drug Interactions Benazepril hydrochloride has been used concomitantly with beta - adrenergic - blocking agents , calcium - channel - blocking agents , diuretics , digoxin , and hydralazine , without evidence of clinically important adverse interactions .
Benazepril , like other ACE inhibitors , has had less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because both drugs lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of benazepril are approximately dose - proportional within the dosage range of 10 to 80 mg .
Following oral administration of benazepril hydrochloride , peak plasma concentrations of benazepril , and its active metabolite benazeprilat are reached within 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 hours and 1 to 2 hour , respectively .
While the bioavailability of benazepril is not affected by food , time to peak plasma concentrations of benazeprilat is delayed to 2 to 4 hours .
The serum protein binding of benazepril is about 96 . 7 % and that of benazeprilat about 95 . 3 % , as measured by equilibrium dialysis ; on the basis of in vitro studies , the degree of protein binding should be unaffected by age , hepatic dysfunction , or concentration ( over the concentration range of 0 . 24 to 23 . 6 μmol / L ) .
Benazepril is almost completely metabolized to benazeprilat by cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in liver ) .
Both benazepril and benazeprilat undergo glucuronidation .
Benazepril and benazeprilat are cleared predominantly by renal excretion .
About 37 % of an orally administered dose was recovered in urine as benazeprilat ( 20 % ) , benazeprilat glucuronide ( 8 % ) , benazepril glucuronide ( 4 % ) and as trace amounts of benazepril .
Nonrenal ( i . e . , biliary ) excretion accounts for approximately 11 % to 12 % of benazeprilat excretion ..
The effective half - life of benazeprilat following once daily repeat oral administration of benazepril hydrochloride is 10 to 11 hours .
Thus , steady - state concentrations of benazeprilat should be reached after 2 or 3 doses of benazepril hydrochloride given once daily .
Accumulation ratio based on AUC of benazeprilat was 1 . 19 following once daily administration .
Specific Populations Renal impairment The pharmacokinetics of / systemic exposure to benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with mild - to - moderate renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min ) is similar to that in patients with normal renal function .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min , peak benazeprilat levels and the initial ( alpha phase ) half - life increase , and time to steady - state may be delayed [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) ] .
When dialysis was started 2 hours after ingestion of 10 mg of benazepril , approximately 6 % of benazeprilat was removed in 4 hours of dialysis .
The parent compound , benazepril , was not detected in the dialysate .
Hepatic impairment In patients with hepatic insufficiency ( due to cirrhosis ) , the pharmacokinetics of benazeprilat are essentially unaltered .
Drug Interactions The pharmacokinetics of benazepril are not affected by the following drugs : hydrochlorothiazide , furosemide , chlorthalidone , digoxin , propranolol , atenolol , nifedipine , amlodipine , naproxen , acetylsalicylic acid , or cimetidine .
Likewise the administration of benazepril does not substantially affect the pharmacokinetics of these medications ( cimetidine kinetics were not studied ) .
Pediatrics The pharmacokinetics of benazeprilat , evaluated in pediatric patients with hypertension following oral administration of a single dose is presented in table below .
Age group Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax * ( h ) AUC0 - inf ( ng / mL * h ) CL / F / wt ( L / h / Kg ) T1 / 2 ( h ) > 1 to ≤ 24 months n = 5 277 ( 192 , 391 ) 1 ( 0 . 6 , 2 ) 1328 ( 773 , 2117 ) 0 . 26 ( 0 . 18 , 0 . 4 ) 5 . 0 ( 4 , 5 . 8 ) > 2 to ≤ 6 years n = 7 200 ( 168 , 244 ) 2 ( 1 . 4 , 2 . 4 ) 978 ( 842 , 1152 ) 0 . 36 ( 0 . 31 , 0 . 42 ) 5 . 5 ( 4 . 7 , 6 . 5 ) > 6 to ≤ 12 years n = 7 221 ( 194 , 258 ) 2 ( 1 . 2 , 2 . 2 ) 1041 ( 855 , 1313 ) 0 . 25 ( 0 . 21 , 0 . 31 ) 5 . 5 ( 4 . 7 , 6 . 5 ) > 12 to ≤ 17 years n = 8 287 ( 217 , 420 ) 2 ( 1 . 3 , 2 . 3 ) 1794 ( 1478 , 2340 ) 0 . 16 ( 0 . 13 , 0 . 21 ) 5 . 1 ( 4 . 2 , 5 . 7 ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was found when benazepril was administered to rats and mice for up to two years at doses of up to 150 mg / kg / day .
When compared on the basis of body weights , this dose is 110 times the maximum recommended human dose .
When compared on the basis of body surface areas , this dose is 18 and 9 times ( rats and mice , respectively ) the maximum recommended human dose ( calculations assume a patient weight of 60 kg ) .
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria ( with or without metabolic activation ) , in an in vitro test for forward mutations in cultured mammalian cells , or in a nucleus anomaly test .
In doses of 50 - 500 mg / kg / day ( 6 to 60 times the maximum recommended human dose based on mg / m2 comparison and 37 to 375 times the maximum recommended human dose based on a mg / kg comparison ) , benazepril hydrochloride had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Hypertension Adult Patients In single - dose studies , benazepril hydrochloride lowered blood pressure within 1 hour , with peak reductions achieved between 2 and 4 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
In multiple - dose studies , once - daily doses of between 20 mg and 80 mg decreased seated pressure 24 hours after dosing by about 6 to 12 mmHg systolic and 4 to 7 mmHg diastolic .
The trough values represent reductions of about 50 % of that seen at peak .
Four dose - response studies using once - daily dosing were conducted in 470 mild - to - moderate hypertensive patients not using diuretics .
The minimal effective once - daily dose of benazepril hydrochloride was 10 mg ; but further falls in blood pressure , especially at morning trough , were seen with higher doses in the studied dosing range ( 10 to 80 mg ) .
In studies comparing the same daily dose of benazepril hydrochloride given as a single morning dose or as a twice - daily dose , blood pressure reductions at the time of morning trough blood levels were greater with the divided regimen .
The antihypertensive effects of benazepril hydrochloride were not appreciably different in patients receiving high - or low - sodium diets .
In normal human volunteers , single doses of benazepril caused an increase in renal blood flow but had no effect on glomerular filtration rate .
Use of benazepril hydrochloride in combination with thiazide diuretics gives a blood - pressure - lowering effect greater than that seen with either agent alone .
By blocking the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone axis , administration of benazepril hydrochloride tends to reduce the potassium loss associated with the diuretic .
Pediatric Patients In a clinical study of 107 pediatric patients , 7 to 16 years of age , with either systolic or diastolic pressure above the 95 th percentile , patients were given 0 . 1 or 0 . 2 mg / kg then titrated up to 0 . 3 or 0 . 6 mg / kg with a maximum dose of 40 mg once daily .
After four weeks of treatment , the 85 patients whose blood pressure was reduced on therapy were then randomized to either placebo or benazepril and were followed up for an additional two weeks .
At the end of two weeks , blood pressure ( both systolic and diastolic ) in children withdrawn to placebo rose by 4 to 6 mm Hg more than in children on benazepril .
No dose - response was observed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 71335 - 0457 - 1 : 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0457 - 2 : 60 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0457 - 3 : 100 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC : 71335 - 0457 - 4 : 90 Tablets in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Pregnancy : Tell female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to benazepril hydrochloride during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Instruct patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur at any time with treatment with ACE inhibitors .
Tell patients to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more drugs until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Tell patients to report light - headedness especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , tell the patients to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Tell patients that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of a reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; advise patients accordingly .
Hyperkalemia : Tell patients not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Hypoglycemia : Tell diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or insulin starting an ACE inhibitor to monitor for hypoglycemia closely , especially during the first month of combined use .
Distributed by : Solco Healthcare US , LLC Somerset , NJ 08873 , USA Manufactured by : Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Xunqiao , Linhai , Zhejiang 317024 , China Prinston Laboratories 3241 Woodpark Blvd , Charlotte , NC 28206 Revised : 07 / 2021 Benazepril Hcl 10 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Benazepril Hcl 10 mg Tablet [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
