Drug Facts Active ingredients Purposes Camphor 4 . 8 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Cough suppressant Menthol 2 . 6 % Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • on chest & throat , temporarily relieves cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product • do not heat • do not microwave • do not add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains worsen , persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days • cough lasts more than 7 days , tends to recur , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away : 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions see important warnings under " When using this product " • Adults and children 2 years old and older : • rub a thick layer on chest & throat for cough , or rub on sore aching muscles or joints • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor • Children under 2 years : do not use Other information • store at 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) • Tamper Evident : DO NOT USE IF SEAL ON JAR IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , spirits of turpentine , thymol , white petrolatum Questions or comments ?
866 - 323 - 0107 Distributed by : Geiss , Destin & Dunn , Inc .
Peachtree City , GA 30269 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 g Jar Label GOODSENSE ® NDC # 50804 - 078 - 01 Medicated Chest Rub • Nasal Decongestant • Cough Suppressant • Topical Analgesic Compare to active ingredients of Vicks ® VapoRub ® * 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED NET WT 3 . 53 OZ ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
