Drug Facts Active ingredient Sodium fluroide 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use : Aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warning Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 6 years of age and older : • use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste • remove cap • pour out and vigorously swish 10 mL ( 2 teaspoonfuls ) of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision Children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients water , stabilized chlorine dioxide , trisodium phosphate , citric acid , peppermint flavor , sucralose Other Information • do not use if safety seal is broken or missing Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 643 - 3337 Specially formulated For Adults 55 + Non - Irritating : for Sensitive Mouths • Alcohol - Free • Sulfate - Free • Non - Burning • Non - Irritating Gentle MINT FLAVOR with Fluoride CloSYS SilverTM helps with : • Mild to moderate sensitivity & dry mouth • Strengthening enamel • Anticavity protection • Dentist recommended to help relieve discomfort due to canker sores or chemotherapy sores FOR YOUR PROTECTION , this bottle has been sealed with an inner cap .
DO NOT USE if the seal is broken .
For maximum effectiveness , store at room temperature .
Oral Care as We Age As we age we become more vulnerable to developing chronic diseases .
Research points to possible links between adult gum conditions and various diseases like ; heart disease , diabetes , stroke , pneumonia , osteoporosis , and more .
CloSYS , while not a prevention or cure for these diseases , helps fight the challenges of adult oral conditions .
The CloSYS 100 % Satisfaction Guarantee It ’ s simple : If you ’ re not absolutely satisfied for any reason with CloSYS Oral Health Products we ’ ll refund your purchase in full .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Rowpar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Scottsdale , AZ 85260 1 ( 800 ) 643 - 3337 closys . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
