USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy during the second and third trimesters , drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible ( see WARNINGS , Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality ) .
DESCRIPTION Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg and losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg / 25 mg combine an angiotensin II receptor ( type AT1 ) antagonist and a diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide .
Losartan potassium , a non - peptide molecule , is chemically described as 2 - butyl - 4 - chloro - 1 - [ p - ( o - 1 H - tetrazol - 5 - ylphenyl ) benzyl ] imidazole - 5 - methanol monopotassium salt .
Its molecular formula is C22H22ClKN6O , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Losartan potassium , USP is off - white to creamish - yellow powder with a molecular weight of 461 . 01 .
It is soluble in water .
Oxidation of the 5 - hydroxymethyl group on the imidazole ring results in the active metabolite of losartan .
Hydrochlorothiazide is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its molecular formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrochlorothiazide , USP is a white or practically white , practically odorless crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide , sparingly soluble in methanol ; insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Each losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet intended for oral administration contains losartan potassium , 50 mg or 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide , 12 . 5 mg or 25 mg .
In addition , each tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silica anhydrous , hydroxypropyl cellulose ( low substituted ) , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , maize starch , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , talc and titanium dioxide .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg contains 4 . 24 mg ( 0 . 108 mEq ) of potassium and losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100 mg / 25 mg contains 8 . 48 mg ( 0 . 216 mEq ) of potassium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component , this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy .
In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide , no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed .
Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and / or hydrochlorothiazide .
The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo .
In general , treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated .
For the most part , adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy .
In controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2 . 8 % and 2 . 3 % of patients treated with the combination and placebo , respectively .
In these double - blind controlled clinical trials , the following adverse experiences reported with losartan - hydrochlorothiazide occurred in ≥ 1 percent of patients , and more often on drug than placebo , regardless of drug relationship : Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema / swelling 1 . 2 1 . 3 0 . 6 1 . 2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1 . 4 0 . 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2 . 1 0 . 6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5 . 7 2 . 9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2 . 6 1 . 2 6 . 1 2 . 3 0 . 6 4 . 6 Skin Rash 1 . 4 0 . 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater , but were as , or more , common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension : asthenia / fatigue , diarrhea , nausea , headache , bronchitis , pharyngitis .
Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women .
Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non - elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non - Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups .
A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin , when treated with losartan potassium , was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash , reported as angioedema , which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued .
Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium .
Losartan Potassium : Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body as a Whole : Chest pain , facial edema , fever , orthostatic effects , syncope ; Cardiovascular : Angina pectoris , arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation , sinus bradycardia , tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation , CVA , hypotension , myocardial infarction , second degree AV block ; Digestive : Anorexia , constipation , dental pain , dry mouth , dyspepsia , flatulence , gastritis , vomiting ; General disorders and administration site conditions : malaise Hematologic : Anemia ; Metabolic : Gout ; Musculoskeletal : Arm pain , arthralgia , arthritis , fibromyalgia , hip pain , joint swelling , knee pain , leg pain , muscle cramps , muscle weakness , musculoskeletal pain , myalgia , shoulder pain , stiffness ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Anxiety , anxiety disorder , ataxia , confusion , depression , dream abnormality , hypesthesia , insomnia , libido decreased , memory impairment , migraine , nervousness , panic disorder , paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy , sleep disorder , somnolence , tremor , vertigo ; Respiratory : Dyspnea , epistaxis , nasal congestion , pharyngeal discomfort , respiratory congestion , rhinitis , sinus disorder ; Skin : Alopecia , dermatitis , dry skin , ecchymosis , erythema , flushing , photosensitivity , pruritus , sweating , urticaria ; Special Senses : Blurred vision , burning / stinging in the eye , conjunctivitis , decrease in visual acuity , taste perversion , tinnitus ; Urogenital : Impotence , nocturia , urinary frequency , urinary tract infection .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide , without regard to causality , are listed below : Body as a Whole : Weakness ; Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation ; Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia ; Hypersensitivity : Purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema ; Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia ; Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm ; Nervous System / Psychiatric : Restlessness ; Renal : Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ; Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis ; Special Senses : Transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Persistent dry cough ( with an incidence of a few percent ) has been associated with ACE - inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE - inhibitor therapy .
Two prospective , parallel - group , double - blind , randomized , controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE - inhibitor therapy .
Patients who had typical ACE - inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril , whose cough disappeared on placebo , were randomized to losartan 50 mg , lisinopril 20 mg , or either placebo ( one study , n = 97 ) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 135 ) .
The double - blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks .
The incidence of cough is shown below .
Study 1 † HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25 % 17 % 69 % Study 2 †† Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35 % 29 % 62 % † Demographics = ( 89 % caucasian , 64 % female ) †† Demographics = ( 90 % caucasian , 51 % female ) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy , in a population that all had cough associated with ACE - inhibitor therapy , is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy .
Cases of cough , including positive re - challenges , have been reported with the use of losartan in post - marketing experience .
Severe Hypertension : In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension ( SiDBP ≥ 110 mmHg ) , the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow - up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy .
There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group .
There were 2 ( 0 . 6 % ) and 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan , respectively .
There were 3 ( 0 . 8 % ) and 2 ( 1 . 2 % ) cases of increased serum creatinine ( > 0 . 5 mg / dL ) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan , respectively , during the same time period ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Severe Hypertension ) .
Post - Marketing Experience : The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience : Digestive : Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan .
Hemic : Thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Angioedema , including swelling of the larynx and glottis , causing airway obstruction and / or swelling of the face , lips , pharynx , and / or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan ; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors .
Vasculitis , including Henoch - Schonlein purpura , has been reported with losartan .
Anaphylactic reactions have been reported .
Metabolic and Nutrition : Hyperkalemia , hyponatremia have been reported with losartan .
Musculoskeletal : Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers .
Respiratory : Dry cough ( see above ) has been reported with losartan .
Skin : Erythroderma has been reported with losartan .
Laboratory Test Findings : In controlled clinical trials , clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) or serum creatinine were observed in 0 . 6 and 0 . 8 percent , respectively , of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone .
No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN .
One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 14 grams percent and 0 . 72 volume percent , respectively ) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone , but were rarely of clinical importance .
No patients were discontinued due to anemia .
Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and / or serum bilirubin have occurred .
In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone , no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences .
Serum Electrolytes : See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 50 mg / 12 . 5 mg , are white to off - white , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " ZD18 " on one side and plain on other side and are supplied as follows : NDC 68382 - 142 - 06 in bottle of 30 tablets NDC 68382 - 142 - 16 in bottle of 90 tablets NDC 68382 - 142 - 10 in bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 68382 - 142 - 40 in bottle of 5000 tablets Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 100 mg / 25 mg , are white to off - white , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets debossed with " ZD19 " on one side and plain on other side and are supplied as follows : NDC 68382 - 143 - 06 in bottle of 30 tablets NDC 68382 - 143 - 16 in bottle of 90 tablets NDC 68382 - 143 - 10 in bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 68382 - 143 - 23 in bottle of 4000 tablets Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Patient Information Leaflet Read the Patient Information that comes with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition and treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Do not take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can harm your unborn baby causing injury and even death .
Stop taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets if you become pregnant and call your doctor right away .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options before taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
What is losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet ?
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet contains 2 prescription medicines , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) and a diuretic ( water pill ) .
It is used to : • lower high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not usually the first medicine used to treat high blood pressure .
• lower the chance of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and a heart problem called left ventricular hypertrophy ( LVH ) .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may not help Black patients with this problem .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets have not been studied in children less than 18 years old .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension ) Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
The losartan ingredient in losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
The hydrochlorothiazide ingredient in losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet works by making your kidneys pass more water and salt .
Left Ventricular Hypertrophy ( LVH ) is an enlargement of the walls of the left chamber of the heart ( the heart ’ s main pumping chamber ) .
LVH can happen from several things .
High blood pressure is the most common cause of LVH .
Who should not take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Do not take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets if you : • are allergic to any ingredients in losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
See a complete list of Ingredients in losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets at the end of this leaflet .
• are allergic to any sulfonamide - containing ( " sulfa " ) medicines .
Ask your doctor if you are not sure what sulfonamide - containing ( " sulfa " ) medicines are .
• are not passing urine What should I tell my doctor before taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions including if you : • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
See " What is the most important information I should know about losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? "
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide can pass into your milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
• have been vomiting ( throwing up ) , having diarrhea , sweating a lot , or not drinking enough fluids .
These could cause you to have low blood pressure .
• have liver problems • have kidney problems • have systemic lupus erythematosus ( Lupus ; SLE ) • have diabetes • have asthma • have gout • have any allergies Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and certain other medicines may interact with each other .
Especially tell your doctor if you are taking : • potassium supplements • salt substitutes containing potassium • water pills ( diuretics ) • lithium ( a medicine used to treat a certain kind of depression ) • medicines used to treat pain and arthritis , called non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , including COX - 2 inhibitors .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? ?
• Take losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Your doctor may do blood tests from time to time while you are taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
What are the possible side effects of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may cause the following side effects that may be serious : • injury or death of unborn babies .
See " What is the most important information I should know about losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? "
• allergic reaction .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction are swelling of the face , lips , throat , or tongue .
Get emergency medical help right away and stop taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure may cause you to feel faint or dizzy .
Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• a new or worsening condition called systemic lupus erythematosus ( Lupus ; SLE ) • if you have kidney problems , you may see a worsening in how well your kidneys work .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands , or unexplained weight gain .
• If you have liver problems , you may see a worsening in how well your liver works .
Call your doctor if you get nausea , pain in the right upper stomach area ( abdomen ) , yellow eyes or skin ( which can be itchy ) .
The most common side effects of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in people with high blood pressure are : • " colds " ( upper respiratory infection ) • dizziness • stuffy nose • back pain • fast or irregular heartbeat ( palpitations ) • rash Tell your doctor if you get any side effect that bothers you or that won ’ t go away .
This is not a complete list of side effects .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How should I store losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
• Store losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets at room temperature at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Keep losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in a tightly closed container , and keep losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets out of the light .
• Keep losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information that is written for health professionals .
Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68258 - 6040 - XX NDC 68258 - 6040 - 03 NDC 68258 - 6040 - 09 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
