[ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredients Purpose Calcium polycarbophil 625 mg ( equivalent to 500 mg polycarbophil ) Bulk for mixing Laxative Use for relief of occasional constipation and irregularity This product generally produces bowel movement in 12 - 72 hours .
WARNINGS Do not use this product for more than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain • nausea • vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits over a period of 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking an antibiotic containing tetracycline as this product contains calcium Stop use and ask a doctor if • rectal bleeding occurs • you fail to have bowel movement after use of laxative .
These may indicate a serious condition As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health professional before using this product Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • drink a full glass ( 8 fl .
oz . )
of liquid with each dose • chew tablets thoroughly • do not swallow tablets whole adults and children 12 years of age and over up to 8 tablets daily in divided doses of 2 tablets per dose children 6 to under 12 years of age up to 4 tablets daily in divided doses of 1 tablet per dose children 2 to under 6 years of age up to 2 tablets daily in divided doses of 1 tablet per dose children under 2 years of age consult a doctor Other information • each tablet contains calcium 125 mg • store at room temperature • avoid excessive humidity Inactive ingredients citric acid , crospovidone , dextrose , flavor , magnesium stearate , maltodextrin , microcrystalline cellulose , sucralose Questions ?
1 - 800 - 331 - 0221 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Equalactin ® Bulk Forming Laxative Relieves Symptoms of Nervous Stomach • Irregularity • Abdominal Discomfort • Loose Bowels • Constipation 48 CITRUS FLAVORED CHEWABLE TABLETS Nervous Stomach ( similar to Irritable Bowel ) , with its symptoms of loose bowels , irregularity , abdominal discomfort and constipation , is caused by water imbalance in the bowel , and afflicts millions .
Equalactin provides relief by equalizing the water balance to restore normal bowel movements .
When you feel the onset of nervous stomach symptoms , take Equalactin to provide relief and prevent the episode from becoming severe .
Distributed by : Numark Brands , Inc .
EDISON , NJ 08818 Rev . 12 / 18 10001 C [ MULTIMEDIA ]
